ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e61	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, has taken the seat. The representative of Une Aina Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e69	I would like, on behalf of myself, to propose representatives to phase out petroleum subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e74	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e77	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy in order to ensure transparency in the financial interests of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e82	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e96	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e103	In its proposal, the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, proposes amendments to the Law of 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. and the Law of 28 July 1949 No. 26 on the State pension fund. The proposal involves the phasing out of the government's waiting pay scheme, which is provided for by the Civil Service Act, and the throw-off scheme, which is provided for by the State Pension Fund Act. As a result, workers will not be entitled to these benefits in the future, but will instead be referred to the general day-care scheme. At the same time, the proposal proposes a transitional arrangement so that those who receive a waiting wage and who are paid in the event of amendment of the laws are not affected by the suspension. The proposal also promotes proposals for amendments to certain other laws and repeals certain regulations, as a result of the phasing out of the waiting pay scheme and the redundancy scheme. The rules on waiting pay are an old scheme, which was already in the first Civil Service Act of 1918. The scheme was intended to provide an economic income hedge for officials who were dismissed because the work had been lost. He must have been permanently employed for more than two years, or temporarily employed for more than four years, in order to receive a waiting wage. Vartpünger is based in the Act on the State pension fund § 23 fourth paragraph. Only members who are not subject to the Civil Service Act are eligible for appeals and are granted them for a maximum period of three years at a time. Members of the State pension fund subject to the Civil Servants Act are covered by the Waiting Wage Code. A significant difference between the waiting wage and the waiting wage is that, under more detailed conditions, officials entitled to a waiting wage are still entitled to take precedence over government positions. Several enterprises with membership of the State pension fund have applied for and been exempted from the warp scheme. The Committee points out that the schemes were set up at a time when welfare legislation was less developed and the labour market was less organised than we have today. The day-to-day arrangements shall, in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Law on Social Security, provide partial compensation for a limited period of retirement of unemployment income. At the same time, the scheme is designed to motivate active job-seeking and to support active labour market policies, inter alia, by: to require that the unemployed person is a genuine job seeker and available to the labour market. In order to motivate the day-to-day scheme to seek active employment, it is assumed that the level of social benefits must be lower than the lost income, that the social benefits are limited, and that the benefit will be stopped if the unemployed person refuses to make offers of work or labour market measures, etc. The majority in the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, show that the challenge of waiting wages and warp pay has been that older workers have had to give up more than if the waiting pay system had not been available to the state enterprises in question. It has often not been possible to return people to work as much as desired. This applies in particular to older workers. The majority therefore believe that the proposal to repeal the two schemes will strengthen the working line and counteract exclusion from the labour market. It will also simplify the management of social benefits for these people. The majority point to the fact that the proposal will also replace the two schemes with the ordinary day-to-day arrangements applicable to all other employees. The majority also point to the fact that the proposal refers to the fact that the phasing out of waiting and waiting pay schemes will reduce the difference between the State sector and other sectors of the labour market. We also believe that society will benefit from increased and more flexible skills flows between the different sectors, as a result of more people switching jobs across the sectors. The Committee is of the opinion that, when the law enters into force, the person entitled to a waiting salary or to a sick leave allowance will continue to have the right to a waiting salary or to a sick leave allowance in accordance with the rules applicable to the amendment to the Law of 4 March 1983 on State officials and others. § 13 and the amendment to the Law of 28 July 1949 No. 26 on State pension fund § 23. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, place considerable emphasis on the fact that the phasing out of the arrangements should not lead to negative consequences for those who are entitled to these benefits today. The majority also point to the relatively low economic impact of phasing out the waiting wage system in the short term. In the longer term, the costs of waiting wages and the reimbursement of these costs for state enterprises will be eliminated. Furthermore, the majority of proposals point to a slight increase in the cost of daily allowances, but that daily allowances amount to a somewhat lower amount and are shorter. The majority also point to the low economic impact of phase-out of the redundancy scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e135	Wages and salaries have been an important tool for change in the country, and there has also been a good tool for older workers. The majority believe that the removal of waiting wages and yard money should lead to better opportunities for those who are laid off in state activities. Removing the scheme will make it easier for them to get a new job, according to the majority. These are claims that can be discussed to the greatest extent — one might just as well claim that the waiting pay scheme has helped to keep people in the labour market. One argument is that the waiting pay scheme should also be covered by the company’s own budget, and thus the employer will have a very good incentive to assess whether an employee can continue to be used in a new organisation, rather than being laid off and the business is given a long-term financial commitment. That's the line of work. The majority in this position is, among other things, to weaken the rights of the individual persuasive person and that the costs of any redundancies and redundancies are shifted from the individual state activity to the ordinary social security budget. It is also argued by the majority that harmonisation with the State and other sectors of the labour market is needed. In that case, the majority did not include the scheme in the other sector, i.e. the private sector, where, for example. a gift and early retirement pension is used as a means of conversion and downgrading. The underlying thing here is that you pick each other's civil servants' law piece by piece and divided. In another case here in the Chamber a few days ago, there was a strong majority who thought that you should not change the municipal law in such a fragmented way, and then it was argued well, from the government parties and the cooperation parties to the government, that you should wait for the sample that assessed the municipal law, so that you could see things in their entirety. It was also adopted. Now that argument is no longer important to the majority, and it can come from seeing here the possibility of picking away what is perceived as important rights from the employee's side. A committee of civil servants has been set up to look at the whole of the Civil Service Act, and there can be little doubt that it would have been natural to wait for that sample report before entering and picking from each other parts of the content of the law, as the majority now wants to do. So the principle of the government parties and the supporting parties towards changes in the municipal law is no longer applicable. The reason for this is poorly hidden; as I said, the majority will take away the employee's acquired rights in working life bit by bit. It's enough to see how you've dealt with the Working Environment Act before. I think the majority in this case could have been honest enough to admit that that's what's most important to them. Employee organisations react in this way to deal with changes in the Civil Service Act. They also refer to the investigation work and they believe that you have to see the matter in its entirety. It would have been a wiser approach, but the employees and their organisations are not heard in this matter by the government and the majority of the population. Had the government parties and the cooperation parties wanted to do so, they would have taken part in the proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are behind this case. Then they had also followed the line of seeing things in their entirety, as the majority did a few days ago when we discussed the proposal for changes to the municipal law. The things are different, the principle is equal, but in this case it doesn't count for the majority. I take up the proposal from the minority, and I can also notify you that we will vote in favour of it and vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e154	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e157	Wages and salaries have been an important tool of human resources in the conversion of the state sector. There has also been a tool for freedom in government bodies and for the transfer of tasks. The waiting pay system and the redundancy scheme are good tools in state enterprises and have been a great advantage for older workers. However, waiting wages are a system of the Civil Service Act that also needs to be audited, and schemes and rights need to be assessed and upgraded in line with developments in the labour market. But it's hard to believe that e.g. older workers can be well-managed in a way other than through a strong contract work. Loss of the early retirement pension scheme and the early retirement pension scheme have implications for service provision and future retirement benefits. That's why the Christian People's Party understands the arguments that have come up to change the Civil Service Act. I must nevertheless say to the Storting today that the Christian People's Party supports the bill. However, in the event of an incurrency, there are errors in the timing – without going into any detail about it – and so we will now provisionally support the minority proposal that Stortinget asks the government to come back with a case after the Civil Service Committee has delivered its report. This will allow us to deal with the working conditions in a more comprehensive way. We believe that it will ensure better participation and participation, and one can get all sides thoroughly evaluated. The provisional position will be that we support the minority proposal today. This is due to an incurrency – that it has not been established in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e166	The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has put forward proposals for amendments to the Civil Service Act and the State Pension Fund Act. The proposal involves the phasing out of the government's waiting wage system and the early retirement scheme. This means that employees are equalised and will have the same rights to the general daily allowance scheme in the future. At the same time, we have proposed a transitional regime, so that those who receive a waiting wage and are paid when the laws are amended are not affected by the repeal. The rights of these persons are thus fully respected when current arrangements are «closed» for new ones. The ‘external’ preference for a new position in the country will be shorter than at present. However, it will be more extensive than the right under the Working Environment Act, as the priority under the Civil Service Act applies to vacancies in the whole of central government, not only in the same business. The waiting pay system has had a negative impact on some workers — especially older workers. These have proved difficult to return to work. Thus, waiting pay has often acted as an early retirement. This is well documented by various reports from Telemarksforsking, Econ and Aetat. In some areas it may be useful to have different arrangements in the public and private sectors, but for me it is important to have a common organisation of the labour market in this area. The State and the other enterprises with a membership of the State pension fund should not be in a special position in this area. The daily allowance is, and shall be, the key benefit in the case of unemployment. It is also very important that we follow up the IA agreement and work to include as many people as possible in the labour market, which includes, of course, those who have lost their jobs as a result of downsizing and reorganization. Wages and salaries have been found to be ineffective in such contexts and, on the contrary, can lead to exclusion from the labour market. This has led to an attempt to avoid transition to waiting pay, and instead has tried to offer final packages, etc. It is mentioned in the position of the case that it is better to return to Stortinget with this proposal after the Civil Service Committee has delivered its report, so that the conditions of employment of civil servants can be treated in a comprehensive manner. I believe that this is unnecessary given that the proposal is well documented and sufficiently investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e184	To the last Council of State said, well, that's what's up to discussion, whether this is well enough figured out. But on the government's side there's a press release, where it's, among other things. read: ‘The Government has appointed a panel to assess the modernisation of the Civil Service Act. [[...]] The committee shall assess whether the Civil Service Act supports and facilitates good employment and human resources policies’. So the question is simple: why does the Council of State think that it is no good to properly evaluate the work of this sample before proposing these piecewise changes to the Civil Service Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e194	The reason for this is that, in our opinion, the waiting pay scheme has been adequately assessed and investigated. We have reports from Telemarksforskning, from Aetat and ECON showing that the waiting wage system has had negative consequences. Then I see that it may also have worked on conversions, but it is that unemployment among those who have been on waiting pay has been higher than among those who have been on other schemes. So we mean that this part is sufficiently figured out. It is true that we have also started work on modernising the Civil Service Act. Our goal is to modernise with moderate changes that can last over time, and we hope to have good dialogue with the parties on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e201	I did not get an answer to the question, why it was so important to pick out just this piece of the Civil Service Act. Why can't you wait until the sample is finished? The last thing on the government website is that this sample will deliver on 18 December. It's not very long. But another thing: I assume that the Council of State can confirm that some here now will be able to lose significantly in relation to their pension rights. What does the Council of State want to say to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e209	I answered the first question, the reason is that the waiting pay system has been investigated and evaluated several times in the past. Several studies show that the waiting wage system has had negative consequences, and we therefore believe that it can be assessed separately. It is true that it will have some consequences for the establishment of pension entitlements. But we believe that equality between workers in this area is an argument for this conversion, so that we get equal treatment between workers in the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e216	Once again, the government weakens the employee rights, and one of the main arguments for abolishing the waiting pay scheme is that it seems out of place from working life, so I understand the council that it is in the best interests of the employees that the scheme disappears. It is probably the case that the waiting wage system, as it has now been set up, is charging the activity it is using. For example, the Post and the Railway Agency themselves have to budget with the costs. I have two questions in that context. Is there not experience that the use of waiting wages has fallen after the staffing businesses themselves have to cover the scheme? It's probably the case that when the waiting pay system fails, it's the state that has to take the bill. The second question is how the Council of State interprets the fact that all employee organisations have opposed the suspension of the waiting and sick pay scheme. Does he mean that they support schemes that work out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e223	Finally, it is likely that the academics have not joined the other employee organisations and voted against the proposal, and the academics are also an employee organisation. So the first question, 86 pst. of those currently on waiting pay are over 60 years of age. It is also documented in the previous reports that the waiting pay system can function unrelentingly, and that is why many state agencies use schemes rather than waiting pay because it is seen that waiting pay is largely a pre-pension scheme rather than helping workers return to normal work. I think it should be a common interest for everyone that we have a more active policy to help people get back to work instead of schemes that may seem outrageous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e230	If the government and the Council of State were afraid of the expulsion of older workers who the state no longer needs seafaring, I would have expected the government to have had a senior policy that could have indicated how these older workers could actually come back to work, and that the state had taken a greater responsibility for it. Unfortunately, many of the migration processes undertaken by the State have the direct aim of replacing older workers who do not have up-to-date skills with younger workers who do. This means that there is a very strong mechanism of exclusion in the ongoing conversion processes. What will the Council of State do to ensure that, when this system is removed, the State can contribute, as an employer, to the actual employment of older workers and also to the updating of knowledge, so as not to be excluded from such processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e235	I think that is a very good and constructive proposal. I am concerned that the state should be both a modern and attractive employer. The State shall both recruit, maintain and develop workers. That is why I have initiated the development of a new and improved employer policy by the State. It is also about the better reflection of society by the state, the better in inclusive working life also linked to the retention of older workers, and even greater emphasis on the building of skills among their employees. It's like the state has about 60 pst. with higher education. It is important that the state is good at building skills, so that we both recruit as well as develop and maintain good workers. So an important element of the new employer policy that is now being consulted is that the government should have a more inclusive employer policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e240	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e256	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e263	Mr Håheim has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Sund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e266	In the case we are dealing with today, the government proposes that demands be made for Norwegian knowledge and passed a test of social knowledge in order to obtain citizenship. It is also proposed to extend the population to include them between 18 and 67 years of age. All parties with the exception of SV support the government's proposal, so I expect SV to explain his view afterwards. Language is the key to integration, and the majority of the Committee supports the government's proposal to introduce Norwegian skills requirements. That proposal will probably lead to more people participating in Norwegian training – that is good. This may also lead to increased demands for municipalities and the need for more flexible training provision. Many municipalities are good at this today, but the department writes among other things. in the proposition that not all municipalities are ‘offering good enough quality training’. In its consultation exercise, the IMFI also writes that this requirement risks having a larger group of people living and living in Norway in their lifetime without having full citizens’ rights, and that women with low school backgrounds are particularly vulnerable to being affected by the requirement. When the requirements are strengthened and there is consensus, it is essential that training provision embraces everyone and is adapted to people with different assumptions. It shall also have a majority within the Committee described in a note: ‘The majority also indicates that several hearing bodies are concerned with legal certainty by ensuring equal training for all in order to be able to comply with the new requirements.’ It also states that another majority ‘joins these concerns and asks for careful monitoring of the experience with the changes’. The system of training in Norwegian and social skills should be evaluated, and then we will certainly get useful knowledge of how to strengthen training. The majority, all parties with the exception of SV, also support the government’s proposal that the compulsory examination of social knowledge should be passed in order to obtain citizenship. Here, too, several hearing bodies have pointed out that the actual language requirements of the social examination are higher than those of the Norwegian test. It poses some challenges, and all parties, with the exception of SV, who do not support the legislative changes, have made the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to ensure a design of the social knowledge test corresponding to the A2 level in Norwegian.’ That is the level in the Norwegian test. The same majority also points out that there must be an opportunity to take the test orally. A second majority of the Committee – the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left – believes that until a new test of social knowledge is ready, there must be specific conditions in order to be able to pass the social knowledge test in languages other than Norwegian. Then, to the best of my knowledge, I have explained the Committee's position. Let me just end with a couple of considerations on behalf of the Working Party. There is a broad consensus in this room that Norwegian is the key to integration, and there is a broad consensus that we should make demands. But in the Workers' Party, we don't think integration is the best way to do it by just making demands. Clear demands must be met by a robust integration policy. For us, the old slogan of the labour movement – Do your duty, demand your right – is also valid here. When the government cuts in Norwegian training at receptions, it weakens the ability to learn Norwegian, and it weakens its integration. At a time when up to 80 pst. Of those on reception, stay in Norway, it is advisable to start integration from Day 1. And at a time when those who are going to stay in Norway are going to be even further in reception than they are today, it's wise to start Norwegian training, and good Norwegian training, from Day 1. Our view is that this is a good thing, but the government's proposal to cut Norwegian training is unwise and petty, and we are really most surprised that that proposal has received support from the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e302	I thought the case rapporteur would surrender by giving an explanation of how the broad majority is behind the vote, but then there were some points at the end anyway. I think it's a little special when the representative Håheim represents a party that put in government for eight years and had many good opportunities to do a lot of work on integration policy, and they've been trying again for the last six months to look up to criticising other people's policies in the absence of their own. But now leave it. There has long been a broad consensus that if you are to become a Norwegian citizen, you should expect something more than just a single citizen's living time. It's about being able as a society to expect individuals to master a minimum of Norwegian oral and basic knowledge of the society in which they live and to become a greater part by becoming a citizen. Not least, it is also about having knowledge of their rights and not least of their obligations as citizens of Norway. Raising knowledge in the fields I just came up with will not only contribute to the passing of the test. This isn't just about going to the test. It's about acquiring this kind of knowledge also starting an important integration process, which ends with not only passing the test, but also becoming a part of society along the way, because everything you learn along the way will be valuable to your own future. As I said, this is about integration. Language is a key. It's a key that opens many doors in society. It makes it easier to get into work. It makes it easier to get acquainted with the neighbor and to participate in the local volunteering, and for a lot of parents – I would stress this – language skills are about actively being able to participate in the educational process of their own children. It's very important that we don't get to drop-out in school, especially among children with a minority background. Quite a number of up-and-resource women – especially women – are often locked, not literally meant, in their closed world because they cannot speak. Many of these women have a lot of energy, they have good general knowledge, they have something to do with, but they're still stuck because they don't know the language. So this is really a debate along very many different dimensions than just passing a test. There are always people who are concerned that the test should become too difficult or that there should be an obstacle. That's wrong. Here, it is added to a fairly feasible process, and both the Norwegian test and the social skills test can be taken several times. In addition, exceptional provisions have been introduced to ensure that, for example: you can't read and write, you can take the social skills test orally. But on a general basis, I would like to say that there is only a lack of basic knowledge at this level after seven years in Norway. I think that is an ambition we as a state and as politicians should have on behalf of our new countrymen, and that is an ambition I also believe our new countrymen themselves have. I would like to conclude by referring to the rapporteur's explanation on the matter itself. There is a broad majority who are behind this, and I look forward to hearing the SV's explanation of why they – perhaps in addition to the Greens – are once again the only party on the Stortinget that chooses to stand outside of this kind of integration action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e321	This is a day of joy. For us in the Progress Party, it has long been important to make demands on people, and it has been important that people who get Norwegian citizenship speak Norwegian satisfactorily and have a minimum of knowledge of the society they are going to become citizens of. Not to make demands on people is a misunderstood form of integration, but it is also quite discouraging to say to a group of people in a society that because of their ethnic origin and their background we do not have the same requirements for them as citizens that we have for all other citizens of a society. We in the Progress Party have great expectations and high demands for all citizens wherever they come from, and then it is to be able to speak the language that we speak in our nation, and to have a minimum of knowledge of the society we live in, of course, in order to be able to call ourselves a Norwegian citizen. When the Labour Party representative, who is also the case rapporteur, said that good integration measures are also important, we fully agree with that, but the point is that decades of experience in this field show that good offers and billions of dollars spent on voluntary organisations, etc. has not been enough. If there are no clear demands like this that you have to master Norwegian in order to become a Norwegian national, and that you have to know some basic things about Norwegian society – and the test has to be answered in Norwegian, of course – there is no way. It shows all the objective empirical and data we have in this field. This is not something that goes into it, and it is not just offers that can help with this. We also believe that it is very positive that the amendment of the law applies to everyone, not only those who are legally staying after the law has been passed. All applicants for Norwegian citizenship will be subject to the new rules. Norway demands that people who want to become part of Norwegian society are of course required. We believe that there is a great underestimation – especially by immigrant women – in the debate on this matter. As a general rule, Norwegian citizenship can be applied for after having been in the country and had legal residence for seven years, and not being able to acquire a minimum of knowledge, such as: Norway is a democracy, what kind of governance we have, etc., after so long, we believe that it is a strong underestimation of people. Secondly, there have been some criticisms about being able to answer the societal questions in Norwegian. We think it's equally obvious. If you are a Norwegian citizen and you could call yourself a Norwegian citizen when you have had 600 hours of training on the things you are being asked about, it is obvious that you can answer the questions in Norwegian. We believe that by making such demands, people are exceptionally motivated, because when you are in a process of getting Norwegian citizenship, you have a motivation to acquire new knowledge. It'll also be an extra carrot to extend further to get into port. And if you can't pass these tests, it's no worse than that you have to take them back, and then you have to acquire the minimum standard of knowledge that is required by society to be able to call yourself a Norwegian citizen. This is a happy day. These are the fruits of the Advance Party's participation in government, of which we are very proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e338	Good Norwegian knowledge and understanding of Norwegian society are important for integration. The Christian People's Party believes that basic knowledge should be required in Norwegian and Norwegian society and culture in order to acquire Norwegian citizenship, and we are therefore in favour of the intention of this proposal. But we are still going to vote against parts of the setting, and I will explain that. As I said, the Christian People's Party believes that oral Norwegian knowledge must be required prior to the granting of citizenship, and we therefore share the government's intention with proposals on Norwegian requirements, but I would like to show that it is already possible to make demands within today's law, and that the change proposed is therefore not necessary, when the government can already introduce it. The Christian People's Party will therefore consider voting against this. In the proposition, the government proposes to extend the population to 18-67 years. The Christian People's Party believes this will primarily affect groups who are already vulnerable and who may have major difficulties in complying with the requirements. An example of such a group may be older illiterates who have not had the opportunity to attend school in their home country and who may have had difficulties learning Norwegian well. But at the same time, I would like to point out that seven out of the last ten years must have lived in Norway in order to have citizenship, and that it is therefore very likely that this group also has basic Norwegian knowledge at this time. However, we will vote against an extension of the personality because we believe this could affect vulnerable groups. Knowledge of Norwegian society and culture is important and shall be a requirement for persons wishing to become Norwegian citizens. The Government proposes that this test be carried out in Norwegian and that the compulsory test be used after the introduction programme has been completed also in the context of the granting of citizenship. The consequence of this proposal is that the level of knowledge of languages required by the social sciences is higher than that proposed by the government as a requirement for Norwegian knowledge. We believe this could undermine the Norwegian test. In addition, the post-introduction test is based on a syllabus through which the participants in this programme are required. Not all applicants for Norwegian citizenship have undergone the introduction programme and the vast majority of those who have completed the programme do so several years before they comply with the requirement for a minimum of seven years’ residence in Norway. A test of social knowledge must then correspond to the level of the Norwegian requirement, and it should also be possible for non-participants in the introduction programme to answer the questions. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal of the majority of the Committee that the government should ensure a design of the test of social knowledge corresponding to the A2 level in Norwegian, which is the requirement proposed by the government to Norwegian. This is absolutely necessary in order to avoid undermining the requirement of Norwegian skills. I would also like to emphasise that this test can be taken orally, and that in specific cases it should be possible to take the test in a language other than Norwegian, until a new test in social knowledge is ready. It is important to make demands, but requirements must be reasonable and serve the purpose. Finally, I want to get into a matter that the Christian People's Party has in our program. We believe that a citizenship allowance should be compulsory for all those who are granted citizenship and have reached the age of 12. Participating in this ceremony and making a vow of allegiance is important in order to demonstrate and confirm its relationship with Norway. I wish several parties had assessed that matter. Active participation in a public ceremony could lead to increased association, co-responsibility and a feeling of stronger belonging to Norway and the values on which it is based. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to make public citizenship allowances compulsory for all those over the age of 12 who fulfil the conditions and are granted Norwegian citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e362	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e365	The aim of the legislative amendments is to ensure that those who become Norwegian nationals are to master a minimum of Norwegian orally and have basic knowledge of Norwegian society, it is stated in the proposition. It's a purpose that we can easily join. The challenge is, of course, to facilitate the achievement of the objective. It requires both from the individual immigrants and from the Norwegian community. The Committee generally agrees on the objective – that applicants for Norwegian citizenship must have basic knowledge of Norwegian and social sciences. Then we separate layers on some points about how this is going to be done. The majority, including the Centre Party, agree with the proposal that persons between 55 and 67 years of age should also be required to document completed training in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship. Applicants for citizenship shall have at least seven years of residence in the country. I think it would be an incentive for many, especially good adult women, to have a right to acquire basic language skills and knowledge of Norwegian society. Municipalities are already receiving grants for the introduction programme for this group, and it is important that this right is used. This will contribute to the changes in the law, and thus also contribute to better integration. We have noticed that some hearing bodies point to the danger that some do not actually have the ability to achieve the skills required by the Citizenship Act. There are concerns I also share, and we ask that it be taken into account, among other things. by carefully monitoring the consequences of legislative changes. The Ministry states that the requirements imposed must be accompanied by reasonable derogations. This must be given a content that does not result in good intentions for the legislative changes excluding many from citizenship. Another issue where there are slightly different assessments in the Committee is the requirements to be made for the test of social knowledge. In the Central Party, we believe that the main thing about the social science test is to document basic knowledge about Norwegian society. It needs everyone who wants to become Norwegian citizens. If the test is taken in writing or orally, or if it is taken in Norwegian or another language, it is not the main issue. Norwegian knowledge is tested in the Norwegian test. I would like to stress that the intention of the test in social knowledge is not to test the reading skills or language skills of the participants. The majority therefore assumes that the ministry ensures a design of the test in social knowledge to this effect. So we believe, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that in exceptional cases it must be possible to place the social knowledge test in a language other than Norwegian. In the proposal, the Ministry gives a signal that it is appropriate to revise the societal test so that it does not impose such stringent requirements on language skills. In any case, the performance of the test in a language other than Norwegian must be possible until these changes have been made. The Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal to make the citizenship ceremony mandatory for all over 12 years. When we have not accepted this proposal, it is not because we disagree with the objective of having more people participate in these citizenship ceremonies. The ceremony, however, is not the main thing. There is a desire to become a Norwegian citizen and the implementation of the knowledge-based services that open up for this, which is the main thing. While there is a need to stimulate greater participation in the citizenship ceremonies, this should be done through positive incentives and a good framework around the labelling, and not by coercive decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e384	The amendment concerns the introduction of requirements that applicants between the age of 18 and 67 should master a minimum of Norwegian orally and have passed a test of social knowledge and Norwegian for the right to Norwegian citizenship. The left supports the intentions of the proposals, which are to ensure that Norwegian citizens master a minimum of Norwegian orally, have basic knowledge of Norwegian society and knowledge of their own rights, opportunities and duties in Norwegian society. Basic Norwegian skills and insight into the Norwegian community provide greater opportunities for full participation in society. We therefore believe that demands for basic oral skills in Norway for the granting of citizenship are important for the sake of both the applicant for citizenship and society. Language is important for the exercise of social life and also gives individual membership of Norway. ‘Basic skills’ means Norwegian skills requirements equivalent to those required to obtain grade A2 in the course of an oral test in Norwegian in the introduction programme. While we are demanding Norwegian training, it is important to say that in a different context, one should look at how Norwegian education is conducted. It is my opinion that Norwegian training today is too standardised and takes little account of the individual circumstances. It is obvious that an academic who already masters four to five different languages has different assumptions for learning Norwegian than an illiterate language. Therefore, there is a need for a review of language training in order to see opportunities for greater diversity and flexibility. In the past, we have discussed the need for activation as part of the introduction programme, and there is no doubt that one can become better at combining language training with different work practices. Making sure that more teachers in Norway are not just about making demands, but about providing a customised offer of a quality that allows more people to do it. Norwegian knowledge requirements shall motivate language teaching, not exclude vulnerable groups from full participation in society after long-term residence here. The left therefore believes that the proposed extension of the population to 18–67 years could affect so-called weak groups. Learning languages at a well-adult age is more demanding than learning when you're young. It's even harder if you're illiterate. That is why we consider it unfortunate to have an age-old extension of the personality, and will vote against that part of the proposal. We therefore ask for separate voting on the proposal for Section 8, which involves a change in the age limit from 55 to 67. The left supports the requirement to carry out social knowledge tests. For the Left, it is important that such a test is accurate and that it tests basic and relevant skills for full participation in Norwegian society. The current compulsory final test in Norwegian and social knowledge is not as accurate as a test of social knowledge in relation to the application for citizenship, where it is not linked to the instructional arrangements of the introduction programme. For applicants who have implemented the programme, an application for citizenship may be made several years in advance and one may not require a re-examination of the introduction programme in relation to the application for citizenship. Furthermore, applicants have not implemented the programme. We regret that there is no majority in favour of developing a new social knowledge test. However, we are pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that a language requirement cannot be used for the examination of social subjects other than the level on which the Norwegian test is based. Something else would be an undermining of the level of skills laid down in Norway. It is obvious that requirements for Norwegian skills equivalent to the result A2 must also be used for the social sciences test. Furthermore, it is clear that there should be an opportunity to take the test orally, again in order not to undermine the level of skill used in Norwegian. The left is therefore pleased that the government is now going to undergo a societal examination to ensure a design of the test in social knowledge that corresponds to the A2 level in Norwegian. We are also in favour of a review to resolve issues that are obviously drawn up with a view to being linked to a syllabus that is of such a nature that the Nordics most will not be able to answer the questions if they were challenged on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e407	Everyone agrees that being able to Norwegian when living in Norway, and knowing something about Norway when living in Norway, is important. The question we are discussing today is whether it should be linked to citizenship and a test. SV disagrees with that. Our approach to this is that many who live here, want citizenship, are very positive, that initially it increases the loyalty of Norway, and that measures to make citizenship more difficult to achieve and more inaccessible to disadvantaged people do not serve any good purpose. On the other hand, we want to increase the offer of Norwegian training, and we want it to happen earlier, in contrast to what the government is doing, namely cutting Norwegian training at reception. We want to speed up the procedure to decide who will be staying in Norway, and to move quickly, so that you can start Norwegian training, training in social skills and work much earlier than you are doing now. People are now waiting and waiting for years, and it does not contribute positively to integration, which you are currently engaged in. We believe that there are other measures that reach that goal all agree on, in a better way. It's getting started on integration a lot earlier. Several other representatives have been involved. It is this threat that one should undergo such a test, and that it should be a very positive incentive that we do not share. It has been said that we, who are not involved in this test, will not make demands. It's completely wrong. We will also make demands from day one, for example. that those who can work will work. We want to demand participation in training in Norwegian and social literacy, but I would like to remind you that if you use terms such as ‘do not make the same demands on others’, it is not such that the same requirements are imposed on you and me – Norwegian citizens. We're just born, we, and that's how we became citizens. So that's not such a requirement for Norwegian citizens at all. I think what the representative of Skkelstad was up here and said, that part of these tests would not be passed by a very large number of Norwegians, is quite correct. I have tried some of them, and there was even the wrong answer – what was stated as the correct answer was wrong! Among other things, one of the questions was when it was allowed to marry in Norway, and the answer was clearly 18 years old. But that's not quite right, because you can actually get married in Norway when you're 16, if you apply. It is important that the questions asked are correct and that they are relevant. For example, it is not particularly relevant to ask questions about who is entitled to introduction benefits in Norway. It's not really a question you need to be able to serve as a citizen of society in Norway. It has been said here that everyone agrees on this. I want to point to the professional environments. Vox, an environment of competence for language training, says in their hearing opinion that they do not support the requirement to pass the Norwegian test and social skills test in Norwegian in order to become a citizen. They believe that today’s system of requiring compulsory training and compulsory final tests in Norwegian and social knowledge is sufficient to ensure that new citizens have the necessary language skills and knowledge of society. There are several people who have been up and spoken about the societal knowledge test — whether it is to be conducted in Norwegian or in another language. It is quite obvious that in order to have such a test, it should be possible to take it in a language that is well mastered. In order to have such a test, it is necessary to test social knowledge and not Norwegian knowledge. If you are going to test Norwegian skills, you need to have a Norwegian test, and if you are going to test social skills, you need to test it in a language that you can, so that the individual’s Norwegian skills cannot affect the results of a test, that is. that some may have sufficient knowledge of society, but still do not pass the test due to lack of Norwegian skills. Such a test will not be valid with test terms, i.e. it does not measure what it is set to measure, and it should do so if you want such a test. So SV will be voting against the legislative changes proposed in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e423	Norwegian citizenship shall hang high. Citizenship is a formalisation of the unexplained public contract between the State and the citizen, and it symbolizes a membership of Norway and is part of the identity of the person. Through links with Norway, citizens are granted rights, but at the same time they are subject to obligations vis-à-vis the Norwegian State. Norwegian citizenship indicates that citizens subscribe to the basic values on which the political community is founded, such as democracy and freedom of expression. I am concerned that the applicants for Norwegian citizenship are motivated to become Norwegian. They can demonstrate this by learning Norwegian as well as by getting involved in the basics of Norwegian society. The proposed legislative changes ensure that individual Norwegian masters orally at a basic level before becoming Norwegian citizens and make clear the expectation that immigrants have a responsibility to acquire the necessary language skills. The proposed legislative changes will stimulate those who want Norwegian citizenship, to learn Norwegian and to learn Norwegian society. The changes in the law mean that one has to understand Norwegian, and that one has passed a test in social knowledge of everyday and general conditions in Norway — in Norwegian. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has endorsed the proposed amendments to the Civil Code. The Committee also proposes that the design of the societal test be at a level corresponding to the A2 level in Norwegian. As I see it, it's a clarification of what's shown in the proposition. We underline that the societal tests will be multi-choice tests. On a general basis, you usually have a larger passive than active vocabulary in foreign/other languages, that is, you can read better than you can write, and you can understand verbal speech better than you can speak. Many will, for example, obtain B1 in reading and listening understanding, but A2 in written presentation. Several hearing bodies have also stated that it will be difficult to test community knowledge in as simple a language as A2. The government is concerned about finding a balance that corresponds best to A2 but at the same time makes it possible to ask good and correct questions. The proposition states that when revising the sample, the government will ensure that the language is simplified as much as possible for such a test. This implies that I will ensure that the social knowledge test is reviewed so that the language of the test is as close as possible to A2 level. The Committee expresses its concern that some groups may be indirectly discriminated against as a result of the changes and asks for careful monitoring of the experience with the changes. In this context, I would like to stress that training under the Introduction Act will enable participants to meet the new requirements of the National Act. It will also be possible to derogate from the new requirements if there are specific health or other serious causes. In any case, I will of course follow up on how the new terms turn out in practice after they have entered into force. I have also noticed that a majority in the Committee believes that it should be possible to derogate from the requirement to take the test in social knowledge in Norwegian until a new test in social knowledge is available. However, my ambition is to have a revised test of social knowledge before the changes enter into force on 1 July 2016. Several of the Committee's comments underline the importance of flexibility in training in high-quality Norwegian and social skills. In this context, I would like to stress that it is an important principle of the Introduction Act that both training in Norwegian and social knowledge and the introduction programme should be individually adapted. The size has just adopted proposals for changes to the law of introduction and the arrangements in the law of introduction are under evaluation by Fafo. The minority in the Committee states that there is room to require evidence of Norwegian oral skills at A2 level already today. It is true that today there is an obligation to have completed training in Norwegian and social literacy in order to acquire Norwegian citizenship, but there is no requirement for acquired skills. I have noticed that the SV member of the Committee does not support the proposals. I believe, however, that Norwegian citizenship, as I have said, marks that the citizen adheres to the fundamental values on which the political community is founded, such as democracy and freedom of expression. My assessment is that the proposals will serve as an incentive for immigrants to learn Norwegian and acquire basic knowledge about Norwegian society – which is important for good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e458	I am pleased that the Council of State signals that the new test will be in place before the changes take effect. That's very good. Then we in the Labour Party agree that you have to make demands, we have to take people seriously and have high expectations for those who come here. We are willing to invest in the people who come, invest in training, invest in integration, because the goal must be that these people not only learn Norwegian and have basic knowledge of social skills, but that they participate in the labour market, and that they participate in society. However, the government has proposed both cutbacks in Norwegian training, for which they are given a majority, and cutbacks in education for single asylum children, for whom they are fortunately not given a majority. It's hard for us to understand it -- all the time we have to make demands, it's hard for us to understand why we're cutting in education and training. But in the finance debate, Tybring-Knowed that there was no point, because all of these were going home. Is there an opinion that the Council of State shares with its party trap?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e463	As the representative is aware, we are in a difficult situation, with a large number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. Some are allowed to stay, some are allowed to stay temporarily, and some are to be returned. That is why the proposals that are being tightened up by a majority in the European Parliament are important. Making demands is good integration, and I am very pleased that the representative underlines it. It is important that all parties are aware that there is something important in order to be well integrated. Learning languages and learning Norwegian is also the key to good integration. There is no one who loses the right to Norwegian education, but with the large number now coming, it has been important to focus on those who are going to stay. So getting enough teachers for that group is something that the government has prioritised when it comes to Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e470	It's true that we have a tough situation, but the government is responding to tightening up integration policy. It's the wrong medicine. The Council of State says we should focus on those who are going to be. Yeah, most of them are supposed to be. UDI estimates that up to 80 pst. by those who are currently on receptions shall be, so cutting their training is an extremely poor investment. But on to another question: as I said before, we have a goal of learning Norwegian and gaining basic knowledge of social skills – this in order to become a participant in society, get a job, get income and pay taxes. So we see in the news today that immigrant women are overrepresented in receiving cash support. Then the government has proposed that we introduce a housing requirement for cash support. But doesn't the Council of State see that it's a bit strange signal to send to those who come to our country, that just you stay here a few years, we're going to pay you not to be a part of the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e477	Let me start with one of the first comments from the representative, and that's that the government cuts in the integration work. I will strongly reject that. We have increased the integration grant, we have increased the language training grant, and we have also intensified the work of settling those who have been legally resident. So everyone who is in reception today gets Norwegian training, and those who are going to stay here get the right to 600 hours of Norwegian training, which they can start with. It is an important measure for those to be settled in a municipality to be able to Norwegian so well that they can function in society, get an education and get a job. Then it's important for the measures now in force, which are on the stairs, to look at the performances we give. This concerns cash benefits, that is the requirement for living time, and I am very happy that the government has received full support here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e484	Citizenship requires, as we are familiar with, seven years of residence. There are people who have already lived here in the country who can become citizens. I think we all agree that people who are going to live here must master Norwegian, and they should have basic knowledge of society. These are important prerequisites for integration, and there is no disagreement about the objectives of the adjustments we are introducing. One of the questions on which there is some nuanced opinion relates to the requirement to be addressed to the test in social knowledge. A majority believe that it shall be possible to carry out an oral test. A different majority considers that it should be possible to place it in a language other than Norwegian. It is the knowledge of society to be tested here, Norwegian knowledge being tested on its own. Does the Council of State agree that what kind of societal knowledge is being conducted is secondary to the fact that the person being tested can demonstrate basic knowledge of Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e491	I believe it is important that the person who receives Norwegian citizenship – usually one who has lived here for seven years and has had a good opportunity to acquire both good Norwegian knowledge and good social skills – should carry out this test in Norwegian. Then we've made it clear that there must be other possibilities to take this test, because someone can have a better vocabulary and can explain themselves better verbally than in writing. Therefore, it also opens up so that one can take this test orally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e498	I would think that getting Norwegian citizenship is highly dependent. It's going to be a little stiff, and it's going to be fun to get it. To get it, one has to meet some conditions. It's Norwegian, and it's about knowledge of society. All of this leads to a voluntary application for Norwegian citizenship after seven years. In this case, the Christian People's Party has made a proposal for a compulsory ceremony – that it might have motivated even more Czechs to take care of these knowledge, to ensure integration and to be well motivated to participate in Norwegian society, with duties and rights. Many other countries have it, and it looks very stagnant. We propose that it be made compulsory. It would have been interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e505	I think the proposal from the Christian People's Party is an exciting one. I'd like to stress that the citizenship ceremony is still going to be voluntary, but that we can work for it to be lifted through the use of positive incentives, so that more people can participate. I am very pleased that the county officials, who are responsible for the citizenship ceremony, now report that there is an increased number of applicants for Norwegian citizenship, who choose to take part in this ceremony. I myself have been so lucky to participate in five such ceremonies. It's a staunch ceremony, and it's great to see the Norwegian citizens actively taking part in the ceremony, and that they have chosen to become Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e512	Learning Norwegian and being integrated from day one is very important. We also believe it is important that those who have lived in Norway for a long time want to become Norwegian citizens. I am at least happy that the Council of State believes that the ceremony should be voluntary, because we have a little more faith in people than the government and the majority here clearly have: a quick start to integration is much more important than such a test at the other end. The question to the government must be whether it is an advantage that there are more or less of those living in Norway who are Norwegian citizens. If the government believes that it is important that several of those who are going to live in Norway permanently become Norwegian citizens, is this the most important measure you have, or is it far more important to start language training much earlier, and also to be able to work earlier than today? [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e520	It's time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e523	The most important integration we can do for those who have been given residence and are going to live here is to make them live in a municipality, teach them Norwegian and quickly get them into education and work. I am very pleased that the Storting last week adopted changes to the introduction system. It shall be easier to obtain leave from the scheme if one goes out of work. So here we and SV have a common intention, that it's important to get them quickly into Norwegian education. I also believe that those who have chosen to become Norwegian citizens – it is voluntary – may still have been resident in the country, but not Norwegian citizens. But taking a step towards becoming a Norwegian citizen, I believe that one should be able to acquire a good deal of knowledge about Norwegian society, of which one has chosen to become a part. It implies some rights to become a Norwegian national. Then it must also be possible to set requirements for those who choose this. Therefore, it is important to have both Norwegian education and, not least, social skills in order to become a Norwegian citizen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e530	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e535	The representative of the SV's partial consultation with the decision we are going to make here today shows why no further progress has been made in Norway when it comes to integration. Yes, it is true that people born in Norway have not taken this test, but only were born here, as the representative Andersen has said. Then they've also brought some socialization, so hopefully they've at least gone to primary school and got some things that way, which people who have come to Norway have not been able to get. Whether these questions are complete or not: we have repeatedly said that the questions that have been raised so far are not stoned for our part. I am pleased that the Council of State stressed that these should be revised. The most important thing for us in the Progress Party is that these questions are built in a professional way. Professionals are required to decide what kind of questions they should be and it should reflect the training and level of knowledge that people are required to take this test. It is not a political responsibility to define what kind of questions you have in a test, either at school or for that purpose. These are pretty simple tests. I've also taken these tests, and I got them all right. Even if you don't get a full pot, you can still get Norwegian citizenship. So when the representative, Andersen, says that she has taken several of these and is not able to pass them, it is not quite good. To the representative from the Workers' Party: The change in reply clearly showed that they have not got what the tightening is. The representative repeated that 80 pst several times. of those on reception remain in Norway. No, it's not given. We have raised the residence from three to five years before being judged to have permanent residence or not. Before the end of the five-year period, it shall be re-assessed whether the protection basis is still there or not. All of these contractions must be seen together. The reality is that very many of the people who come to Norway and claim that they have been persecuted go back to their home country before their cases are dealt with. Someone leaves right after the matter has been dealt with, and someone leaves as soon as they have been legally resident in Norway, despite the fact that they do not have access and rights to it. And we've done something about that. It is a pity that the Workers' Party in the Committee has not got the pieces of the tightening up, but it is in fact part of the cooperation agreement: to be able to return those who travel to their country of origin, to increase residence in Norway, to assess the grounds for protection before permanent residence, etc. That makes it not certain that it is 80 pst. by those who are at the receptions, who are to remain here permanently and permanently. I think it's a good thing that we should all hope for, that people who are on the run will get it safer and better in their homeland in the future. It's not a bad thing to hope for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e550	It is not likely that people will be safer in their home country if they become more unsafe in Norway. I think that this article – which is about a completely different debate that we are not going to take now – shows that the agreement that the Workers' Party has also signed, means that many more people will have a temporary stay that can last a very long time. Then I realize that the government thinks it's perfectly okay that people sit on reception and stare at the wall and neither learn Norwegian nor get the opportunity to work, because they're going to go out again. Our approach is that we need to clarify those who are entitled to protection. They need to be settled quickly, start language training and work as quickly as possible. They must contribute to society and make the most of their seas. We believe that this is the best strategy and also the cheapest one for Norway. The method now outlined by the representative Keshvari is terrible animals. So then we have to pay for people to sit passively at reception for years – because there might be peace once. We're all going to have hope of that. I have so much faith that many people choose to go home because they want to, while others, as we are talking about today, have become Norwegian. I want those who live in Norway to become Norwegian. I have more faith in people than obviously many others have. I think that if we give that signal clearly right away, that okay, now you're here, now you have to turn your head and learn Norwegian, start working, participating and contributing to society from day one, then we come as society and as individual individuals much better out of this. Now I'm not so sure that a citizenship test at the end is so important – maybe not so terribly dangerous either – but I don't think it's that important. Then what we do at first, much more important, is that we show that we actually trust people, and that we are able to give security to people who are persecuted, when they meet the requirements for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e557	Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e560	I can't leave the claim undisputed that we have a government that wants people to sit at reception and look in the wall. Let me remind you that it was this government, along with its cooperation parties, that introduced a differentiated reception system as a basic idea that people who have been accommodated in Norway should be settled in integration receptions, where integration starts from day one, giving people the opportunity to become part of Norwegian society as early as possible. Then you have a return receipt for the people who are not going to be here and who are going out of the country. By getting that distinction, we leave resources to be evenly distributed to all — including those who are going out — and we can focus on the people who are going to stay in Norway and give them the best possible start. Secondly, as everyone has said, there is an extraordinary situation. People are on the run and need protection, and then it can't be as a surprise that if the need for protection fails, they should not be here anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e567	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e570	If you are concerned about good integration, you must also ensure that those who are entitled to protection are dealt with quickly and not over a year before you come to the interview, which you are going to attend today. Afterwards, you have to sit on reception and be like-integrated. We need to think again and put in place a system in which those who are allowed to stay in Norway are allowed to live in a municipality and get their duties and rights started. It creates best integration. It allows people to put their legs under and take responsibility for their seas. It serves society the most. Unfortunately, it costs a lot more money with the method that Keshvari was up and sketched, and it doesn't work best for integration. I hope that in the extraordinary situation that we are in, the majority will be able to think again and see what best serves both society and the individual who is protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e577	I will not unnecessarily extend the debate on a matter in which we agree with the government. But in a debate about a social knowledge test, I felt it was in my place to comment on Keshvari's contributions, because he said they have raised the requirement for living. No decision has been made in the Storting on that. All the time we talk about social skills, I think it's wise to refer correctly. It has not been adopted in this Chamber. We like to discuss it, but it's not adopted. Then I think it's allowed to hope for peace in Syria. I think we all do. But it is very unwise to base the integration policy on the fact that the Syrians who are in reception now are going home. We don't know if there'll be peace in Syria, and for most of us, there probably isn't much hope that it will happen with the first. Then I think it's wiser to invest in these people, teach them Norwegian and about our society, and that they get to participate in our society, because I think many of them are going to stay here, regardless of what representatives of the Progress Party might think and believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e584	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e598	I won't spend 30 minutes talking about this. The issue is that, fortunately, new criminal laws have come to be in force thanks to the fact that we have a powerful government that has carried out this process, and it has provided the basis for the law called ‘The Law on the Access of Foreigners to the Kingdom and Their Residence here’, more known as the Foreigners Act, also needs a number of changes in order to adapt to new criminal laws. For this reason, the government has made a proposition for Storting, which takes up some of the paragraphs – a long line that I have not planned to read – in which there is a need to make adjustments. The Committee has dealt with this, and it crystallizes a large plurality, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which are in agreement with the Government in total, and which joins all paragraph changes. And then we have a minority, which is made up of the Left and the Left Party, which will probably do its own thing for why they're not involved in everything. They're mainly involved in the changes, but they still have a few paragraphs left, which they'll probably do for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e607	New criminal law means that several offences are subject to changes in the criminal framework, compared with the penal code of 1902, and it has therefore been natural to make some adjustments to the foreign law in this respect. The Left supports the need to adapt the Foreign Affairs Act to the new criminal framework in new criminal law. However, we note that the adaptation proposed is somewhat one-sided. Where the criminal law has reduced the criminal framework for some offences, it is proposed to maintain the same strict response in the Foreign Affairs Act, while the criminal framework is raised in new criminal law, no change is proposed in the Foreign Affairs Act. As a result, there is a difference between the seriousness of various types of offences under the criminal law and the foreign law, respectively. That's what the Left believes is unfortunate. The Foreign Affairs Act must reflect society’s view of the criminality of individual offences. The seriousness of a criminal offence should also be based on how a person looks at the same act according to the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act. In the words of the Association of Advocates, for reasons of equality and proportionality, there must be consistency between criminality, as judged in new criminal law, and how the severity of the infringement should be assessed under the Foreign Affairs Act. We are therefore critical of the fact that, by implementing a reduction in the criminal framework in new criminal law, similar changes have not been proposed in the Foreign Affairs Act. This is particularly serious for those conditions which are no longer to provide the basis for prison sentences, but only the penalty imposed by the penal code, but where one, according to the current legislation, allows the law on foreigners to be equated with those on which prisons are based. This is, for example, less theft, less substantiation, less document counterfeiting and less heroying – i.e. not serious crimes. It is definitely something to be responded to, but which one in criminal law considers to be a basis for a fine. However, for non-residents, there is now a change in the way such infringements are treated in the same way as more serious infringements qualifying for imprisonment in expulsion and expulsion proceedings. We think that's unfortunate. On this basis, the left will not support proposed additions in the last sentence of Section 17, first paragraph, points (g) and 66, first paragraph, point (c), and we ask for separate voting on these provisions. Furthermore, the proposals in the proposal are supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e626	I would like to support the justification of the representative, Mr Skelstad, from the Left. SV shares the views of the Left on the matter. It is very good that new penal laws are now implemented, and there is a need to make adjustments in other laws. We disagree that this is not done in a systematic way, but that it makes a difference to the provisions where the penalties are adjusted up or down in the criminal law. I could have understood that if there had been reason to assume that for some of those who in the proposition are referred to as ‘traveling criminals’ without legal residence, there is no reason to expel or expel them with today's regulations. The law firm believes very strongly that it is, and that it must be assumed that if you call someone a criminal, they must be convicted, and that if there is a situation and the foreigner has legal residence, there is expulsion and not expulsion as it is relevant to assess. We believe that the changes made to the Foreign Affairs Act are not well-founded where the criminal penalties in the criminal law have been reduced and that it is not followed up in this law. That is why we are also going to vote against the two points on which the representative from the Left spoke.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e635	Let me begin by thanking the Committee and its chairman for the review. Then I would also point out that the introduction of new criminal law has been an important project for this Minister of Justice and this government. The consequences of this are that there must be some other legislative changes, and that is part of what we are now dealing with. I am very pleased that an entire committee supports most of these proposals, but I want to spend some time on the disagreement expressed in the speeches by the Left and Christian People's Party. They are opposed to the proposals for decisions to explicitly refer to specific offences that give rise to expulsion and expulsion, even if they are no longer punishable by prison. The representatives justify this because there should be consistency between criminality as assessed by new criminal law and the consequences of a foreign law offence. I want to say that the background for us to make these changes is that we want to maintain the legal state of the day. These conditions lead to today’s expulsion and expulsion. Failure to endorse these proposals contained in the proposal would lead to a poorer ground for rejection and expulsion – in practice, liberalisation. It is also important to recognise that the assessment of the severity of a crime should be punishable is not necessarily the same as the assessment of the consequences of the foreign law offence. There are two different assessments. The criminality of a crime is just one of several relevant factors that one must emphasise in such an assessment. It is important to ensure that we have effective foreign controls, and to keep out of the country's borders people who are undesirable here because of crime. Therefore, immigration regulatory considerations are also a central assessment of what should be the basis for the assessments of the grounds for expulsion and expulsion under the Foreign Affairs Act. There are considerations that are not considered when assessing the criminality of treatment under the criminal law. Foreign controls shall contribute to the preservation of social security and to the prevention and combating of crime, including cross-border crime. In this context, it is practical, for example, to: nascrisy and minor offences of great practical importance. I think it would be unfortunate if these offences could not form the basis for expulsion and expulsion. Thus, the SV and the Left, in their comments, assume that the proportionality of expulsion cases is to be taken into account in the criminality reflected in the criminal law and that the best interests of children are to be given greater weight. I would like to stress that the provisions we are dealing with here, i.e. the provisions on expulsion and expulsion, are can-rules and that proportionality assessments are always carried out after a concrete consideration of relevant considerations. The best interests of the child are, as this house knows, a fundamental consideration, but also other considerations will be taken into account in the practical assessments. I have also registered that both SV and Left want to evaluate these rules after a year if they are adopted. It's a very strange request, in my opinion. What we're doing is we're maintaining the case law that's in force under previous legislation. Evaluation after a year of the case law generally known and accepted appears to be a somewhat strange design. I'm glad the majority doesn't support it. So it is part of the story that SV and Left have one approach to this matter – the government has another. Both are possible to explain and defend politically. However, I am very pleased that the majority in this Chamber have landed on the government's solution, which helps us not to liberalise the rules of expulsion and expulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e666	What made me ask for the word was that I guess the Council of State was saying wrong. He said that he would comment on the counter performances that had come from the Left and Christian People's Party. I expect that he still knows that it was SV and Left, and that the Christian People's Party is in the majority. – That's just what I wanted to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e671	Yes, if I got hurt to confuse the Christian People's Party with SV in this case, I'm sorry. It wasn't supposed to be. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party supports the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e676	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e692	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e699	This case concerns a proposal by the representatives of the depositors Tove Karoline Knutsen, Martin Henriksen, Helga Pedersen and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren to secure the departments of the Veterinary Institute in the green sector and aquaculture in North Norway. The background to the proposal is that the Swedish Veterinary Institute’s Board of Directors decided in March 2014 to close down all activities in the green sector at the departments of Tromsø and Harstad and to reduce the activity of Harstad in relation to aquaculture. Following the announcement of the Veterinary Institute’s decision, there has been a great deal of commitment to the Tromsø department of the relevant actors — of course — who use this service, and it has also influenced the Committee’s work. I shall deal with some of the matters on which the Committee has been concerned. The Committee has been concerned with the social development taking place both nationally and not least internationally, with the increasing traffic of both humans and animals across borders from a distance and close by. In recent months, examples have been seen of a significant increase in cross-border migration, especially in the north. Also via the maritime route, traffic is increasing in the north. This is due to many factors, including: increased activity in the economy, and not least the potential for navigation through the Northwest Passage as a result of the climate change observed. Societal development and climate change, especially in the north, are of importance for animal welfare and animal health, and it can also have an impact on public health. The Committee has been concerned that good and nationwide preparedness for serious infectious diseases is important and that local knowledge is very important, especially in the north and in the reindeer sector, and not least in the case of Svalbard. The Committee had this out at its hearing on 5 November, and it was clear that there was great concern that autopsy and sampling should be carried out in fields with a significant risk of spread of infection and in working conditions that are very demanding both in terms of temperature and precipitation and geographical distances. Telemedicine has been mentioned as an alternative here, but one should be aware that there are varying mobile coverage around the district of Norway and especially in the north. So it would have been a difficult exercise. The Committee is concerned that the Veterinary Institute's offer of autopsy, diagnostics and monitoring remains an offer in North Norway in the future. We will also show that several of the animal diseases can be transmitted to humans, and public health is therefore important in this way. Another element the Committee has been concerned with is that it is important to obtain enough animals to maintain the knowledge of disease and, above all, to increase that knowledge. The Committee has also noted that in the last five years, the proportion of trades in Norway has increased significantly and that the proportion of trades in Norway is significantly higher than in Sweden and Finland, which are two countries with which it may be natural to compare. When excesses have increased, the number of autopsies has been greatly reduced, and it is natural that there is a link between increased fees and excesses and the number of animals that are autopsied, and this is a development that we think is unfortunate. Finally, I would just like to point out that there is an overall committee behind the proposals for decisions. It is therefore an overall committee that supports all the comments, and it is animal welfare that is high on the political agenda of the Economic and Social Committee and the European Parliament in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e720	There is every reason to be very enthusiastic about the fact that a single committee – and all parties, because I think we are also supported by those who are not represented in the committee – supports the draft document that the committee has been discussing. In this way, there is every reason, first of all, to give tribute to the proposers, but I would also like to allow myself to give tribute to the case rapporteur – for many reasons. I can sign so to say every word in his post regarding the material content of the proposal and what this has as a consequence. What is most important to us in the Workers' Party, and I assume that it also applies to the other parties, is that there is no reason to slack down on either the demands for effort or the operational ability that we see at the authorities that are going to handle, among other things. Animal welfare — and last but not least food security — and the fact that the production around the country, whether linked to the blue industry or to the green industry, is being carried out with good reason and that we are operating all over the world, to say the least. I feel that is very much below. What is special about this matter is that this makes an overall committee and an overall increase – despite the fact that the Council of State responsible for the matter, that is, the Minister of Agriculture, advises us not to do so. So this is in that way a political matter that has a serious undertone, in the sense that you perceive the seriousness of the steps you're doing in the administration, different in this house from what you're actually doing in the government. I refer to the letter from the Council of State where we are not advised to do this. – Now I see that the clock is not working, and it can invite a long consideration, but I will try to be as short as possible. In any case, it is largely the government's prerogative to organise the government's administration. So the Storting is initially very careful to go into this kind of decision – and should be. But in this way, it is a serious signal – a warning, in my opinion – not only with regard to the important principles we face on the issue of animal welfare and food security, but to the greatest extent with regard to the overall debate we have in this country on how active and how eager we should be to centralise almost any public activity. I believe very strongly that it is also under this case, that it is not always right that we should centralise everything at all costs, and that any administrative exercise should almost go over a video conference. I also believe that there is a warning to the government regarding the question of what really is simplification, and that one quickly gets into the situation that what is being presented as making administration and regulation simpler, actually becomes a deterioration. In this way, I am pleased that such a broad majority – i.e. unanimous – has chosen to join in this, primarily to ensure that we safeguard animal welfare, but also food security and considerations that benefit all citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e731	I am pleased that, through the proposal we are considering today, we maintain both competence and good animal welfare – especially in Tromsø and Harstad, but also throughout North Norway. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done to get this matter through in such a good way. For the Christian People's Party it is important to have an agriculture throughout the country, and then veterinary competence is important. It's important for our animal welfare, and it's important for our food security. That is why, as also previous speakers, the representative of Storberget was in the room, there is a clear signal from this room that the Stortinget today is doing something that the Council of State initially does not recommend to us, but that the Committee believes is important in order to have an agriculture throughout the country and thus increase food production. Then we need exactly the competence of the Veterinary Institute and will operate locally where agriculture is run.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e738	I would also like to start by commending the rapporteur, and I would like to join his contribution. I also want to commend both the proposers and the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV, who has been active in asking questions in the matter. This matter is about the importance of presence. It is important for emergency purposes, and it is not least important for us to achieve the Storting goal of increasing Norwegian food production. Then we must have a living agriculture throughout the country. We have to use the resources across the country to reach it. I will also join in what the representative Storberget was into, about the relationship between big business and government. It is quite surprising that we have a government council that is so little able to listen and capture political signals and political currents that it will be necessary for the Storting to take such a decision. In addition, where there is an overall committee in favour of the decision, this should have been dealt with in a different way. I started by giving praise to the case rapporteur, but it is a little strange when the representatives from the government parties celebrate their district political victories. We have a government that centralizes, and that is not very concerned about whether this will lead to a better use of resources or not. Then we get examples like this, that one in the north can now celebrate that everything is going to be the same. And then we get this kind of signal that we saw, for example. in Egersund – first the Minister of Fisheries started a process of shutting down the district office, and then we see happy representatives from the government parties who are celebrating and eating cake because everything is going to be the same. Then we get pictures in the newspapers that we had when the government wanted to lay down a number of departments in Bioforsk, where we got to see happy representatives from the government parties who celebrate that everything is going to be like before. This matter is probably an expression that the government and government parties have gone wild in their centralisation. One should more capture arguments for and against, one should be more critical when one comes to the answer centralisation. My clear impression is that the government starts with the word ‘centralisation’, that it is the solution, and then it does no more to determine the benefits and disadvantages – because centralisation is by definition right. The Central Party is pleased with the decision we are making today, but we will strongly encourage the Council of State to be more effective at capturing political signals. It must be fun for a councillor to have a majority for some of the issues, and I would encourage a more humble attitude towards the competences that are spread around the country and that are built up over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e753	I would like to thank the proposers and, in particular, the rapporteur-general for their work, and I am pleased that an overall committee is behind the recommendation to continue the competence and activities of the Veterinary Institute in the green sector and aquaculture in Tromsø and Harstad, respectively. The Committee’s hearing on the matter supported in a reliable and sound manner the importance of maintaining and further developing the local competence of veterinary medicine in order to develop the expertise based on local and regional conditions. I think that is a good reason to refer to the Committee's joint comment, which underlines the importance of the point competence acquired by having a place of residence and base in the environment to be served. That is very important. Similarly, veterinary competence in North Norway is an important complement to the knowledge environments existing in the Arctic region, linked to educational and research institutions. I think this matter is an excellent way of showing that the Committee wants the greatest possible proximity between the one to be served and the one to be served.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e762	The backdrop here is the big changes that we see globally, which are coming to our region. Because of climate change, we know that, in particular, the northern regions are particularly vulnerable. We also know that there is increasing mobility in this region and greater interest, which – in all respects – includes: will lead to challenges for animal welfare, animal health and infectious diseases that can ultimately also affect humans. From such a perspective, Norway is a long country in need of closeness to this type of competence. The veterinary institute is a kind of a second line where the private veterinarians are the first line. If they are to be able to do their job, they should be able to follow up the increasing amount of occurrences they experience in everyday life, they need to be close to the Veterinary Institute. I think this case has got a very good development. I want to give tribute to the proposers and Tove Karoline Knutsen, who have done a great job and followed the case from the beginning, and not least to Øyvind Korsberg, who has our spokespersons for this matter. This is a wise decision. I am disappointed that the government, with all its professional apparatus, has managed to reach a completely different conclusion from the Storting. It's quite obvious. It's not long since we established the Polar Institute in the north from a similar kind of assessment. It's not long since we've established Genes to monitor changes at gene level, nano-level, based on the same type of cause. Then all of a sudden, these functions, the blue sector and the land sector, are going to be shifted from the continent, and we're going to get a lot of distances. It's simply a very funny decision that actually testifies to a lack of policy. I think this matter should be a warning to the government. At least that's a warning for me. First of all, we've seen that the properties have increased tremendously in the last five years. This probably means that the entire veterinary service is underfunded, and may be a reason why the board reached such a conclusion. Here we need enough to come back to how the entire veterinary system and the preparedness we have for this is funded, and then we need to have a national policy in this area. I think, and it's not just me who believes, but professionals think we're facing formidable changes that are going to have a big impact on our security. If Norway is to build a preparedness that is close to where it occurs, in all areas, whether it is climatic, or it is at microscopic or disease level – the whole field – Norway simply needs a larger strategy. Nearby must be a central keyword. There are a lot of things you can do at a distance, but this case illustrates – especially the listening round was quite clear about it – that if one exposes this to transport with the dangers it gives, we are back on a poorer starting point. Again: This is a wise decision. I would like to thank the Committee for coming to a common position. I see a question mark in the Council of State handling of this matter. I already raised the question in March last year. Then the council said she would go into the matter with an open eye. I haven't actually seen the openness that was notified in the question hour, in this process. So there are some questions, probably also from the rest of the committee, to the very handling of this matter. I would therefore like to inform you that SV will follow up with proposals for major strategies for this whole emergency field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e783	Today, the Veterinary Institute has its headquarters in Oslo and has regional laboratories in Sandnes, Bergen, Trondheim, Harstad and Tromsø. The veterinary institute shall have its own administration. The Management Board shall ensure that necessary adaptations are made depending on societal development and changing needs in a way that ensures the overall nature of the task allocation and that also ensures a cost-effective and sustainable organisation. All significant disease surveillance in domestic animals of Norway takes the form of so-called active surveillance. Targeted sampling is carried out to investigate specific diseases or contaminants such as: salmonella, brucellosis and cow disease. In addition, testing of blood or tissue samples is provided to confirm or invalidate a diagnosis when there is a legitimate suspicion on the basis of signs of disease. Studies on samples from sick or dead animals, known as passive health surveillance, have been an important additional part of national animal health surveillance. The material is generally taken from veterinarians who are practicing and sent for laboratory testing. In an investigation carried out by the Veterinary Institute in 2014 and 2015, in cooperation with management and business operators, it was demonstrated that such passive health surveillance has significant limitations. It is not suitable to give a picture of the health situation in populations of farmed animals in Norway. It is very rare that random post-mortem material only contributes to the detection of «hazardous» diseases. Large distances and high transport costs also lead to carcasses from farmed animals entering autopsy at the laboratories of the Veterinary Institute, all predominantly originating from ‘near areas’ to the laboratory. The results are therefore of limited value for the official animal health activity. It is important that the preparedness for health threats is nationwide and that the test material obtained for further examination is of high quality. The Veterinary Institute considers that this can best be achieved by significantly strengthening the competence of the veterinarians. Visits to livestock will enable the veterinarians in practice to communicate online, for example: pathologists, infection specialists and disease experts in different animal species. Correct treatment can start quickly. The Veterinary Institute has therefore planned to organise post-mortem and post-mortem training courses in several fields in Norway in 2016. They also work on the development of information material for network publishing. This considers that the Veterinary Institute will contribute to better quality of test material and faster and more targeted diagnostics at the laboratories. I welcome the fact that the Veterinary Institute is working on modernising preparedness and health surveillance, among other things. by exploiting modern ICT and the significant competence of industry health services and local veterinarians. This also provides for the possibility to obtain more representative laboratory samples from larger geographical areas than is currently the case. At the same time, I am concerned that this is done in a way that ensures that disease preparedness and health monitoring will also be strengthened in North Norway due to the changes. In the case of excretion of animals, all studies at the Veterinary Institute are currently free of charge when a serious infectious disease is suspected. This means that these costs are fully covered by the budget allocation. The same applies to the detection of contact crew in an outbreak. Studies relating to animal welfare matters in which the Food Safety Authority is a candidate are also free of charge, as are studies in wild animals. In cases where there is no suspicion of serious contagious animal disease, so-called compulsorily compulsorily notifiable diseases, the owner of the animal must pay for his own part. Production animals which are submitted for autopsy at the laboratories of the Veterinary Institute in Northern Norway come mainly from the ‘near area’ to the laboratory. I will follow up the Storting decision in this case by asking the Veterinary Institute to continue the autopsy activity at the laboratory in Tromsø. I also want to ask the Veterinary Institute to review the level of excesses in order to increase the extent of autopsies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e817	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e820	After this matter has been mentioned in the media, many people have contacted me and others to find out if it really is that Storting's decision is taken. On the basis of our parliamentary practice, I have assured people that the decision of the Storting is followed up by the government, as the Council of State also said in its intervention. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State say something about how quickly she can implement the decision, both go through the level of self-interest, or ask the Veterinary Institute to do so, stop the winding-up of the green sector in the north, as we have seen it to now, and also that it will continue both competence and activity, in line with the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e826	It is natural for me to follow up this matter in line with the Storting decision. It will be done to the Veterinary Institute. Then we'll make sure to follow up what's here. We want to ask the Veterinary Institute to review these excesses, but they need to get some time to do it before they get back to us. Just some date I can't give the representative, but we will of course make sure to give that task to the Veterinary Institute in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e833	I must say I listened excitedly to the post of the Council of State. I sat and read her letter of reply from October 15 at the same time as she kept the post, and noticed that there was a lot of the same text that was read up. It will be close to such a round to ask the Council of State if you have a certain degree of self-explanation regarding the dissuade that came to the Stortinget as soon as October, when you were advised not to do what you are doing now, and whether you could explain in the post some considerations about what the Stortinget actually does, and which are in conflict with what you meant two months ago. I'm giving the council a chance now. Does the Council of State consider this in relation to its own position, and is it not time to correct the issue of both centralisation and the ability to maintain agriculture throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e838	When it comes to agriculture all over the country, we see that agricultural spending is as high as it is. We're actually doing a good job of increasing food production, and I'm very happy that we're doing it, as opposed to the previous government. So I would say that on this topic, I believe we have a lot to be proud of in Norway. We have a quality animal health that few other countries – if any – can sign. That's something that we're still going to have. Then I'm concerned that we're going to use these funds in a good way. Then I see that the Stortinget wants you to be actively present in Tromsø. It will of course be followed up, but there's a point in this case that the autopsy performed is largely within a six-mile radius. That means that what the Veterinary Institute is doing to strengthen this in the field, in any case, will be very important in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e847	The second part of this decision concerns, as the Council of State was concerned, the question of autopsies and, in particular, the situation in which they exist, which is, to a very large extent, about whether one is able to obtain the research capacity that one actually wants, i.e. all actors contribute. The size of the population has a clear expectation that this decision, if it is taken today – which is against all assumptions – will allow you to go in and look at the excesses that apply. Some of the autopsy is free of charge, I understand. What will the Council of State do to make the actual level more correct than it is today, to ensure that we get the exploration capacity that we want?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e852	As for the excesses, as I was in my post, I'm going to give the task to the Veterinary Institute to review the characteristics and see if it's necessary to change them in order to get more autopsies. Of course, we'll follow that up. I would also like to say that when it comes to detecting animal diseases, antibiotic resistance, the Veterinary Institute is very involved in that topic and an important partner for the Food Authority. Then it is incredibly important that we also carry out active targeted monitoring. As I was in my previous post, it has to be both parts of the further work to make sure that we are the best in the class even further in the field of animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e859	The government governs on the basis of a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In this agreement there is some point about the cooperation, but now we have seen that the price control case has had an unblemished meeting with Stortinget. We are going to deal later today with a soil protection strategy where the government's will is set aside, and now in this case it has been necessary for the Stortinget to give notice of how the organization and office position in the Veterinary Institute should be. My question to the Council of State is simply: are you not talking?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e866	It's always fascinating when Geir Pollestad asks that kind of question, because he's howling and screaming about changes that we're getting adopted. He has now done so in two agricultural settlements and pointed out how problematic all the major changes the government is making. He did so at the latest when the suspension of the globalisation announcement was issued by the Committee, where the government is given a majority in order to implement the Central Party's policy of removing export subsidies on Jarlsberg. So the representative Pollestad has to decide soon: does he think we're getting through a lot, or does he think we're getting through a little? Because he says both parts at once, and it's pretty hard to relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e871	The usual thing in the reply rounds is that there are representatives asking questions and the Council of State answering questions. I think we should stick to that form too. It is not that this representative is yelling and screaming. This is how this representative works for things he believes in, and he believes basically in increasing Norwegian food production and living agriculture throughout the country. But he's also concerned that there should be a tidy relationship between big business and government, so I repeat my question that I didn't get the answer to: how does it work, how are these kinds of things handled in the collaboration between the four parties? Because it should be possible to change the course when there is such a unanimous mood to maintain the operations of the Veterinary Institute in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e878	The ratio of the four parts works well, that's a good thing. We agree with many things, and then there are some things that we don't agree with. We'll take that discussion between us. Just as the red-green government in the last period sat and argued in the back room, we also have some discussions in the public room, but a lot of things we can also solve. It is good when the representative says that he wants increased food production, that we then deliver on it. In fact, through the changes carried out by these four bourgeois parties, we have increased food production, increased lamb production, for example. We have facilitated increased cattle production, and we see a slight increase in this as well. We see that many farmers want to produce more milk. Now we're in a situation where we actually produce a little bit too much. So in terms of increased food production, this government delivers, and then the representative Pollestad should applaud rather than problematize.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e885	I also listened excitedly to the post of the Council of State, and after looking through the letter of reply, I thought there were very strong similarities between the letter of reply and what was posted here. It seems that what happened here at Stortinget was unimpaired, which I thought is a little bit special, i.e. you just have to go straight ahead, no matter what you sound at. We have high standards of animal health in Norway, and at a time when exactly that security is threatened, the government proposes to build that security. They're doing exactly the opposite of what you should do. When I think that a very open question to the minister responsible for this, who has been given a long, long time to think through the point of view of this matter, must be: What is the government's policy when it comes to the preparedness for food security in our society, when one builds up the preparedness for this in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e892	First of all, I would like to reject the fact that I am unaffected by the Storting decision. I have just explained that we will, of course, follow the decision of Storting. Then it's probably the way I don't recognize that we've built down the animal health work. On the contrary, This government has taken real action to address the challenges of MRSA in the pig population and EUBL in the production of chicken by focusing on both research and on comprehensive monitoring programmes, including: last year, 1000 swine herds were sampled. There's been a lot of work done in this area, and of course we're going to continue. There's also, as I was in the past, the Veterinary Institute an important party for the Food Authority to fight antibiotic-resistant bacteria. There is one part of this work. It is also important, as I was told, that we work outside the areas where these autopsy stations are located, in order to get the best possible work out in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e900	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e905	This is a day of joy. We have received a unanimous opinion from the Business Committee that the activities of the Veterinary Institute in the north should be maintained, as set out in the Document 8 that several deposit representatives from North Norway are behind. The Departments of the Veterinary Institute in the northernmost part of the country are located in Tromsø and Harstad. While Harstad has been given responsibility for the marine sector, we thought for a long time that the green sector would be in Tromsø, where the Institute would cooperate with the University of Tromsø, the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Svalbard staff. The core tasks of the two departments were to take care of aquaculture, reindeer and arctic agriculture, as well as preparedness and research related to environmental and climate change in the Arctic region. However, in 2014, the Veterinary Institute decided that the activities in the green sector should be discontinued. It was a heavy message to get, and we were many who thought that this would happen, an important scientific community in Arctic veterinary medicine would be severely weakened, at a time when it should rather be strengthened. Nature in the north is vulnerable, and negative consequences of man-made climate change are first noticed here, which has also been addressed by several speakers. It is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, at the Council of State, which is the decision-making authority for the future structure of the Veterinary Institute. Therefore, it has been important to clarify the views of the Council of State on the matter through questions that have previously been asked in this room from both Torgair Knag Fylkesnes from SV, Martin Henriksen from the Workers' Party and myself. The Council of State has replied that she has noticed the concerns, yet the ongoing process of the Veterinary Institute's decision-making bodies has led to an ever-increasing concern among both our representatives from the north and affected environments in the region. I would like to stress that today's decision is not just about how to organise the state's activities, but about the most profoundly important societal issues such as security and preparedness, and then you cannot build up the competence of that part of the country where they are most vulnerable. That is why the decision in Stortinget is a milestone and – as I see it – the decision that is needed to ensure that we can finally establish that the competence and business in the north continue, and that the fractions of autopsy in Norway should be at a level that will give us the number of autopsies we need to maintain and strengthen the knowledge of animal health. I would then like to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy so much, and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Korsberg, for having taken care of both of these considerations in the unanimous vote that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e920	As one of the proposers, I would also like to congratulate an overall committee and the case-rapporteur on having resolved this matter ashore. The fact that I boast of the representative Korsberg is not everyday food and actually means a lot. The background for this proposal was a twofold concern. The first was the concern about the situation and activity of the Veterinary Institute in North Norway. The department in Harstad was previously threatened by large cuts. It was streamlined and cut in the department in Harstad, but fortunately not as much as feared. It is important for the competence of the blue sector. When there were clear concerns about the activities of the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, fear was that we would stand without the necessary competence in the northern part of the country. And as the committee points out, there are several factors that suggest that local knowledge and local preparedness are very important. That's why it's very happy with the decision that Stortinget is going to make today, which says: «The Government is asked to ensure that the competence and activities of the Veterinary Institute in the green sector and aquaculture in Tromsø and Harstad, respectively, continue.» In the Council's response to the Storing, there are both disappointments and points of light. The downturn has cleared the Stortinget out of the way, but we have to take the point of light further, for that government council, among other things. writes in its reply: «The government will strengthen education and research in North Norway with Tromsø as a centre. The Veterinary Institute will therefore facilitate the strengthening of its research in North Norway. [[...]] We'll take that with us, and we expect it to follow up. The second part of the reason why this proposal was initially promoted is that the proposal for the centralisation of the Veterinary Institute is not a single case in the northern part of the country. We have seen centralisation or de-employment or proposals for centralisation and de-employment within a wide range of agencies, directorates and supervisors, for example. Fisheries Directorate, Directorate of Economic Management, Food Safety, Tax Offices and Innovation Norway. I am not going to go into various proposals from the State budget. This case gives hope that a majority on Stortinget can see that centralization is not always the best. There is knowledge and knowledge throughout the country. Most of the time, it is both clever and effective to put it into practice. Therefore, today is primarily a time of praise to all the parties who have supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e943	I would also like to congratulate the proposers and the Stortinget, who have seen that this was a centralisation that should not go under the political radar in the department or in the government, but that did – or maybe you deliberately wanted it to be like that. But the Storting has taken this up, cleaned up and made sure that you can develop the skills and professional environments where they have their basis. The government talks a lot about being robust, but a part of robustness is that you're established and grounded in the environments and communities where you're going to do the important tasks. It is a very good example of this case. This is, as several representatives have been up here and pointed out, the real responsibility of the government. The government has not dealt with the matter as the majority in Stortinget wants it to be handled, namely not to be centralised, but to maintain these knowledge and competence environments and service institutions where they are today. It is also not the only example of government centralisation proposals. The representative Martin Henriksen was just up here and listed a whole series of the proposals that have come, so I think this has been something that the government initially wanted. That is why I am very pleased that the government parties today have ensured that there is a unanimous increase that says that this centralisation should not be carried out, and that we need to strengthen the professional environments and competences where they are today. This has to be an example of follow-up in many other cases, because there are a lot of trade unions around the country that need to be strengthened, not centralised, and they can also be built up. It is for the benefit of the whole country and society that we do not make ourselves poorer in the districts, and that we do not increase press problems and fire under a centralization that has very strong driving forces in itself. Then we miss out very much, and you don't have to go very far outside the central areas to notice these effects. When it happens in North Norway, they have a wonderful ability to stand together and fight for what they want. It is an attitude that I want to work better in several parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e954	I must also congratulate the rapporteur on his work. There are parts of the debate here today that I find a little strange. It's not like if you don't do anything, the world goes on. The ideas behind the proposal here, but also the ideas behind some of the proposals made by the government that are only stamped as centralisation proposals in this debate, are to improve the quality of some of the public services provided. It is also a bit of the background for the debate and the comments we share – that we felt that the multidisciplinary perspective was not sufficiently focused on the material we received. The hearing also showed that. Then I'll warn you when the opposition reaches like tramps with both feet and shouts for centralization all the time. I know the Director of Fisheries best, and it's used as an example of centralization. It was the opposite of what happened in the political debate that was. Instead of having one person's office around, we're left with fewer offices, but there should be at least four professionals in each office, you're going to create a professional environment, and there's a better service out there. So trampling too high with the centralization bulletin now, I'll warn you against. So we're going to be aware that we now have a minority government. It's also a little surprising that there are so many people who don't want to debate. We have parties in this Chamber who, in the last period, adorned themselves with more transparency and more democracy, and that is what we now experience when we get proposals debated in this way in the Committee. I've been in the nutrition committee for four years, where we got into the fasit, and it was to be debated as much as possible. So it's going to be so uncomfortable for opposition politicians to get an opportunity to influence, surprises me. They should initially be satisfied that we have now taken the policy back to the Storting, that we have a parliament that is now debating, discussing politics and making decisions that have effect. So, of course, it's tempting -- I can sometimes understand it -- to label things as pure centralization when, in most cases, it also shows the debate in the hall and the decisions that are made, in fact, changes to the best for the users out there. Then I would warn against using iron heels on the boots to debate this. It's actually like we've taken the policy back to Stortinget. That is what has happened now, and that is what has happened in the other cases, and then I think we should be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e967	I would like to thank you for a good and interesting debate, and not least be allowed to thank you for all the good words that I have received as rapporteur of the case, both from those who have participated in the debate, and especially from my good colleagues on the Troms bench. The fact that one thing arouses political commitment, I think we're going to be very happy for whatever party we belong to. I'm not going to make an article now about the centralization debate, I just want to comment on a few points. Geir Pollestad insisted that this was a district political victory. For me, this is an animal health, public health, animal welfare and food production. It has been the most important thing for me, and it has also been the most important thing for the Committee. You're dealing with a system and an organization that you know, and that's what the committee has done in this case. So I just have to share Frank Bakke-Jensen's thoughts about the criticism that has emerged, that this case is actually being decided in this room. I have four years more than Frank Bakke-Jensen with a red-green government, eight years, and it was probably hardly a single matter that was decided in this room. They were decided on the SMK. The fact that we have a debate in this Chamber, and that the Storting is involved in shaping politics, I think that Norwegian democracy is a strength – all the power in this Chamber is the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e978	I think it should be done in this debate not to look at the decision taken later today, as a reversal of centralisation. What Frank Bakke-Jensen and others have been into, that this is not about centralization, I have trouble seeing. It may well be that in some cases centralisation can give more effect and be a better solution for society — yes, it can, but not always. We're facing such a situation now, which, in my opinion, is classic in a centralisation debate – drawing resources out of the districts and collecting them in a central place – so I have trouble seeing that. So that's all reason, when we don't see the effect we want of centralization, to just tramp with both one and two feet. The second, which was probably the reason for the line change between the Council of State and the representative Pollestad, makes me wonder something. I am also concerned, and I think it is good, that we have a debate in this Chamber. In some cases, it must also be tolerated that decisions are reversed. But it is also the way in which the representative Pollestad was involved that this is in many ways more than a debate. So here it's like the majority of the Biggest in a very important area of preparedness turns the other way around and has a completely different view. It is clear that for many of us there will raise some thoughts about the question of executive power whether it is such an important area that the majority of the population – all, not only some, not only a majority, but also the government parties in the Stortinget – chooses to desavuate the Council of State. It is clear that one must be allowed to question whether it is such a way to get the desired enforcement power in such an important area. I can agree with the Council of State that we are increasing the production of lamb and what it may be, but it is true that we want an agricultural policy and a preparedness policy in this field that is preconceived and that has an executive role. When it is then that on the same day that we are dealing with this, we will also treat it as several of us see it as perhaps some of the most important thing about agricultural production, namely that we have enough land to grow on, facing the same situation – where a unanimous increase seems to join both a strategy and a goal that is really diametrically opposed to what the Council of State wants. On such a occasion I think it must be allowed to ask: Is it so that this gives the best possible enforcement power? Some of us believe that organizing the state really does the best for the government, it does the best for implementation. We have to intervene in some cases, and this is a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e987	I am primarily very gentle today, so I can't sink that much anger, but I want to comment on a little bit of the representative Korsberg, who talked about the red-green government and that you sat on the SMK and decided the different things. I can assure the representative that they did not. We had big, exciting debates both in the groups, between the groups and actually in this room as well. And we moved a lot of things. Maybe today's opposition is a little bit neater to contact the position for really really dealing with important issues that you can solve together. I am very proud that we on the Troms bench and in the north have managed to work well on this matter, even across party boundaries. It's very joyful and very important. For me, this case is not primarily about the government's organization of its business; it's about, of course, it's about it too, this case addresses, as I said in my post, very important social issues. Just as we talk about public health and have a lot of debates about it and about organisation in that area, we also need to talk about animal health and the quality of food and, in fact, about safety and preparedness. It's a bigger debate, which we've managed to get through this case, and which we've been able to get a whole bunch of people to join. I listened to what the council said. She has a different angle, but she has assured that she is taking the will of the Storting and the decisions to be made today, in the utmost seriousness, and that she is launching as soon as possible the process that the Storting is going to ask her today. And of course, we're going to follow that closely. And: I want to sing a song that I've made, called "I'm so happy today," but I'm not going to do it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e998	It was the representative of Storberget who made me take the floor, for his posts were in the same street as the representative of Pollestad. It is fascinating when the Chair calls for implementation, as well as questions and other things that I read about in the newspapers, are very critical that this government is making changes in agricultural policy that actually contribute to change. I could mention the concession limit for chicken as one example. We lack implementation power, it is said, but when we then implement changes that allow the chicken farmers to operate full-time, yes, then: – What is it, then? I was involved in export subsidies. I can mention the natural damage system, a law that was in the drawer for years before we entered the department. Next year changes will come into effect, and that is very good, for right now farmers are experiencing, among other things. in West Agder, and not least in Rogaland, floods, which means you have to be compensated. This will help to make it more effective. I've also been involved in the agricultural business. We saw tendencies that the representative Storberget believed that the agricultural settlement in 2014 was to be decided in his office. It didn't, and the changes and the implementation that we actually got, he was against. I am a little surprised that you cannot decide what you really mean at the end. On the one hand, there is a problem that we get a lot of work done, on the other hand, we don't have the implementing power. Both of these things can't vote, so I'm looking forward to making decisions soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1009	The only reason one takes this to the Storing is because one has to. Had the government had multiples, one would not need it. It is not the refined democratic mindset of Bakke-Jensen that opens the debate and takes it to Stortinget and legalises to change the government's policy. That's because one has to. And of course, for us who are on the Stortinget, it's amazing, and for the people's democracy in Norway, I also thought it was fantastic. But that's because one has to. And then there's a dimension here that we didn't discuss, but that probably a lot of people have thought about, that the reason for these changes isn't professionally based from the government's side. The review of the committee during the hearing was very clear; it was professional caution against making these changes. It was what made the committee as consensual as he was, one had clear professional advice that if one is concerned with animal welfare, food security, preparedness, etc., this is the wrong way to go. So there are other grounds behind it. I think that centralisation can be a part of it, at least a consequence of this, but it's also an economy. So the question that we haven't addressed in this discussion is, what's happening now? I think the only way to understand the decision we're making today is that there's a message to the government to prioritize the collective work for animal welfare, food security and preparedness across the country. This is a case of principle. It says something about proximity, that this is a work that should have a high priority. That doesn't mean it's just Nord-Noreg to be favored, but it's a case of principle, which means that the minister can't go back and start new processes elsewhere with similar types of results. And unless the minister goes up and sees me in another way, I think that a co-conspirator's big deal has given a principal message to the Council of State that one should give priority to animal welfare, food security and preparedness during the time we are living in. And since the Hill-Jensen was busy with the users of these services, and was so fast with the statistics: the average user is a dead sheep. So we can at least be a few that we should give priority to the work on all the dangers and disadvantages that can arise, as we discover anomalies in food production and fish production around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1020	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1024	The Council of State has the tactic that when we point out the lack of implementation, she brings forward the issues in which we disagree. But there are many things where we are just standing together, and want a more ambitious policy. Animal health is one of those matters. I think it's just that when we have to go the Council of State with us on a decision here in the Grand Duchy, we don't get the enforcement force we could have wanted if we had had the Council of State with us from a few months back. The same applies to soil protection. Most of the Stortinget here – all of them, obviously – is for us to have a more ambitious soil protection policy. I am convinced that we would have had a much stronger executive power if we had had the Council of State with us from the very first moment in that field. That's what it's all about, and that's what I think, with respect to reporting, that the Council of State is not responding to. She needs to take a good dose of humility in order to meet the wishes of an overall increase that actually has to do with important questions for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1029	Usually it starts at the end of a debate to say: it is not to prolong the debate. But this is an intervention to prolong the debate. The representative Knag County says the average user is a dead sheep. No, it's completely wrong. It's like when we talk about preparedness, when we talk about veterinarians, we're actually talking about farmers, we're talking about reindeer workers, we're talking about other nutritionists, and we're talking about ordinary people who need these services to be done. And when we talk about multidisciplinaryism, we're not talking about a sheep in Finnmark and a sheep in Troms. Here we talk about several levels of education that meet and develop knowledge. That's what was our background for that. Many times in debates, I've actually intended Knag County to have so scanty knowledge of statistics that it could go as wrong as this, but today we got the proof. With regard to the political debate and the parliamentary debate, Lillian Hansen, in fact, said last time – and we find the quotes – when we discussed a document on maritime food, promoted by me, that the representative Bakke-Jensen could not expect the government to take into account a proposal for a representative from the opposition. Well, we find the proposal again in the Workers' Party's fisheries policy document, which has been rigged this summer, and we find it in other thoughts and debates. But it was actually like this – with a majority government – that we were told that we could not expect the government to take account of a representative proposal from someone in the opposition. It is the great difference with the Parliament we now have, and with a minority government, that we take into account in another way the proposals for representatives that have been submitted – even from those who are in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1044	It was the representative of Knag Fylkesnes who made me speak, because he was concerned that the government should give priority to animal welfare and animal health. I can only confirm that we have already done that. This government has put in a new gear for animal welfare. We've put in place the country's first animal police force. We have also got money to create another one. We have increased the number of supervision carried out by the Food Authority and introduced a separate department in the Food Authority to conduct animal welfare. With regard to the reorganisation of the Food Authority, there has been a discussion about centralisation. What we did was we went from three to two levels. We went from eight to five regions -- I didn't register that there was any resistance to it. On the contrary, there has been a very successful reorganization that has made us have 30 pst. fewer heads of the Food Authority today, which means that we can use more resources in the field and supervise. So it's a very good reorganisation that has worked perfectly well. In the case of animal health, it is also the case that this government has introduced a new gear in the control of antibiotic resistance. Both in chicken production and pig production, a number of measures have been taken to speed it up, both in research and monitoring, and in removing infected herds. So we're doing exactly that job very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1055	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1069	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1076	I would like to thank the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum for focusing on an important issue. The Committee shares the concern expressed by the proposers that 360,000 tonnes of edible food should be discarded in Norway each year. The food that is thrown is estimated to be between 18 and 20 billion. kr. Each consumer throws 46.3 kilos of edible food every year. Today’s government has focused a lot on food waste and has launched a number of measures and projects to reduce this. Several government councils and an overall food industry, from primary industry to consumer level, signed in May of this year an intentional agreement to reduce food waste. The intention agreement will apply until it is replaced by a concrete industry agreement when there are statistics and indicators that can provide the basis for concrete reduction targets. Based on a set of indicators, an overview of the amount of food waste, causes of food waste, reduction potential and what may be appropriate measures, concrete reduction targets will be set. The agreement is a good starting point for broader cooperation with the entire value chain in the food industry on how to further develop work on reducing food waste and increasing resource use. The Government announced in the 2016 government budget that the Ministry of Finance will, at the hearing, submit a proposal to include a separate provision in the VAT law exempting the withdrawal of food supplied free of charge to non-governmental organisations. Norwegian authorities are actively involved in international efforts to reduce food waste, both in the UN, OECD, the EU and the Nordic Council of Ministers. The food centre was established in 2013 and distributes full-fledged food from grocery stores, wholesalers and producers to people who need it, throughout the Oslofjord area. It is also working to make this scheme national. Food waste has also been banned in nature since 2009. This waste is now destined for incineration, feed production or composting. There is also an increasing interest in increasing the share used for biogas. All of this shows that we are on the right track in preventing food waste in Norway. We need to continue good cooperation with industry, national efforts and awareness-raising with a view to finding well-functioning measures to reduce food waste in Norway. Norway has also joined the UN’s new sustainability targets, including target 12.3 on halving food waste by 2030. A majority of the Committee agrees to stick to this objective rather than to carry it out for four years. The majority of the Committee also considers it natural to take a decision on any plan following the conclusion of an obligatory trade agreement. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1097	I must also thank the proposers. It is an unusually important matter, and I share a lot of the points made by the rapporteur. It's really awful how much food we're throwing. I think that during today's day in Norway we are going to shed 30,000 loaves. It's monstrous from a climate perspective, it's monstrous from a distribution point of view, and it's horrific to some ethical standards most of us would identify with. It is also special that at a time when we complain that the food is too expensive, households throw almost 25 pst. of the food they buy. In a time when we're using down to 10-11 pst. So our payroll on food is going to be 25 pst. of what you buy. That's immediately 25 pst. Discounts that the Council of State can bring with it in debates when people ask for cheaper food. You can get 25 pst. Discount by dropping off. I believe that many measures the government points to are very good. It's very important that you get the industry, very important that you have business agreements, and that you get an understanding of it out of your opinion, of course. It is important that we all go in the sea in our own families and learn to smell, see and taste, and learn differences in date marking. But I think we have come into a situation where stronger action in this field must also be considered. That is why the Labour Party is one of the proposers behind the proposals in the case – first of all, that we should have an ambitious goal, but also that we should draw up an action plan. One of the reasons why the Workers' Party wants an action plan to be addressed is that part of the measures we have seen internationally, we see that we should look at Norway, among others. related to what is being done in France. For me, it is a paradox that the government, and in particular the Advancement Party, argue that there is no more ban and ban, while at the same time one is faced with a situation where people who are begging for food want bans and bans. But to the big, commercial players who usually get rid of a lot of food, you shouldn't use it. I think it's unfair, I think it's inconsistent. It should now be considered to use stronger lye to wholesalers and others, restaurants, grocery stores and whatever it may be, which throw a lot of food. That is why we ask the government to come up with an action plan. I believe that even if you have been so far reprehensible, you should assess it and, among other things, look at what is happening in France. It is also a paradox that the arguments about the grocery stores can deliver the food you intend to throw to, for example. Good intentions are met by a lack of capacity in Norway. We don't have the capacity to get rid of superfluous food – so we've become rich. That's why I and the Workers' Party believe that we need to have something stronger leaning towards this in order just to raise the popular opinion we must have, linked to such an important field as this is. That is why we believe that an action plan should now be drawn up. With this, I address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1125	The representative Knut Storberget then brought up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1128	Like previous speakers, I agree that it is worrying that so much food is being thrown into Norway. It is worrying when every consumer in Norway throws an average of over 46 kg of food each year. For someone who is happy in food, it's bad to hear. It's not good to hear that we throw good food, edible food – that we live in a society that has so much abundance that we can see the advice to do it. Therefore, it is positive that some measures have been taken around it with the casting of food. It is positive that we now have a proposal that allows us to debate just that. I also see that the government is following this in a good way, and that's positive. As the matter now stands, it is a little worrying that when we have date markings on food that say that something is best before a date and something has an absolutely last day of consumption, everything is seen as the last day of consumption. There is a lot of food that is being thrown today because people don't really know that the food is completely edible, that it's still of good quality, even though it says 'best before'. It is so important to note that the ‘best before’ marking and the ‘last day of consumption’ marking have a certain swirling effect. As the representative of Storberget said, it is possible to look both at the food and to smell the food – it is even possible to taste the food. There are, of course, certain exceptions, such as: When you have to eat something that I think is good; a fish that some people say tastes neither good nor smells good, but it is completely edible. As I said, it's doing a lot of good, and through the commitment agreement that the entire food industry has signed, which is supposed to be the starting point for the further work to a concrete industry agreement, I think a lot of the work on food waste has been done, but we're still not in the finish line. The collection of good statistics and indicators can provide a good basis for concrete reduction targets. I think that through the specific industry agreement, we will also bind the industry to become much more conscious of that with food waste. But I'm very careful to give some prohibition, some absolute prohibition, and use very strong lye. There are many other ways to do this, including: the measures taken by the government, including in the past, such as: The Food Center and the ForMat project. It is now an advantage for food chains to throw food – economically – rather than giving it away to those who can distribute it. The government has come up with the right track to watch, for example. the VAT situation for abandoned food. I'm excited about what the government will do in the future. I'm excited about what comes out of it. I am very optimistic about the work being done, and I am pleased that we have now had this matter in Stortinget, and that we can now follow this up in a good and constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1143	I share the commitment shown by the Central Party co-representative through the proposal that we are discussing today. The Christian People's Party and the undersigned have promoted representative proposals on this earlier, and also interpellations, and we have asked questions. It's good that there's a lot of commitment around this. The summary of the current case states that there is a desire to reduce the amount of food wasted in Norway at all stages of the value chain. Yes, it is desirable. But I'm not just going to say that's desirable. That's something we have to do. We have to go from wanting to do something concrete. For me, this is an ethical question, and for me, it's also about the environmental. We are going to discuss soil protection later today. There is a need for every dean to grow food in this country. We're going to take care of our best soil, but then we also have to take care of the food we grow. That's a lot of work. It's done a good job, and I want to praise the food industry. It's really the people who have gone for this through ForMat and the strong focus that the food industry itself has had on it for many years. There's also a lot to learn from the rest of society. A good commitment agreement has now been reached from the primary level and right up to the consumer. It's good. We see that the technologists and the technology are coming up. When the refrigerator manufacturers now produce refrigerators that maintain the shelf life of food – and perhaps last longer than what is on the package – it shows that important steps have been taken. The Christian People's Party, through the budgetary agreement we have with the government this autumn, was able to strengthen the Matsentral, which has been mentioned earlier in the debate, with NOK 300,000. It is good that we should have a review of the VAT rate, but we have also arranged through the budget agreement that the Matsentralen will have a better financial situation from 1 January to do the job they do and take care of food that can be used, and give it to others who really need it. We are impatient on the part of the Christian People's Party. That is why we agree with the proposal that we both need to put in place an action plan, and also that we should set ourselves a target for halving food discards by 2030. We think we need to be as specific as possible. We believe that not only is it desirable to reduce the amount of food, but we also have to do it. Then action plans are important, and concrete objectives are important, so that we have something to reach out for as to who we are, and what we have on our head at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1156	I want to start by thanking the proposers. I can subscribe to much of what has been said in the previous speeches, including the household advice from representatives Storberget and Ørsal Johansen. There is no doubt that we are throwing too much food in Norway. Among other things, we throw 850 tonnes of eggs a year — eggs that are fully usable — because of a pointless EU legislation. It has to stop. This effort must be made both at the shops and at people's homes. The proposers and the centre party had originally made a wish for a target of a halving within ten years, and had set the year 2026. We see it as appropriate that we link this to the same ‘target year’ as that of the UN’s sustainability goal, that is, 2030. To achieve this, it is too weak to put everything into an industry agreement. We also need a plan for how to achieve this goal. In the setting, we have pointed to several measures, including: that this should be part of learning objectives in the field of food and health at school. I am surprised that in this matter we experience that the Left Party is turning its thumb down for the proposal. I'm surprised, because this is an environmental issue, it's a matter of justice, and I should have liked the Left to support the two proposals that the representative of Storberget raised earlier today. We have to have a tougher tilt, we have to have more tools, these are goals that are not achieved by themselves. There is currently a rather unworthy price war on food in Norwegian shops. Christmas food is sold at prices far below the price of cat and dog food. It's unworthy, and it's immoral. It should not be a goal that you can buy yourself a Christmas dinner for less than $10. I react when I see that the Council of State is out to celebrate this price war. First of all, I think it's on the verge of naivety, because I think the chains are taking this back on other goods. Secondly, it is not possible to reduce the cooking while celebrating the gi-away prices of a valuable Christmas dinner. When the government wants to reduce the waste of electricity, it introduces an increased electricity charge. When the government thinks we're travelling too much by plane, there's a proposal for a seat charge on aircraft. When the government believes that the construction industry and farmers are using too much diesel, there will be an increased levy on diesel. But where is the logic that when someone thinks we're throwing too much food, it's howling down food prices is the right answer? It definitely doesn't hang on to anything. We have to increase the value of the food if we're going to be able to reduce the amount of food. I think that food in Norway is too cheap, and the example of throwing every four bags of food should be a sure proof of that. I would once again encourage the Left to think about this matter. Is it not worth adopting a national target that is also consistent with the UN's sustainability objective, and is it not worth it that we are actually demanding a plan for achieving this goal? This should not be the case that puts the cooperation climate at risk. I assume that in the heart of the Left there is support for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1173	First, I would like to say that I share the considerations put forward by the rapporteur in his statement, where he pointed to important things. It's great and in its place that food waste, or cooking, has received increased attention, because, like the rest of the committee, I share the concern of the proposers that so much food is being thrown into Norway. It is therefore gratifying that the authorities and the different parts of the food sector – from primary producer to consumer – have committed themselves to reducing food waste. The results of the retail trade show that this industry, like the food industry, has a relatively high loss for some key product groups. For the first time, a comprehensive sectoral survey has now been carried out among enterprises in the food industry showing how businesses are working on food waste. The main findings are that a large majority of enterprises consider work on food waste to have a major impact on their business in the future, regardless of industry and size. The reduction of food losses in own enterprises will have an impact on the profitability and reputation of enterprises. It sees the businesses. A large part of the enterprises have started to monitor food waste in their own businesses – very positively. Over 60 pst. by enterprises to have the potential to reduce food waste by up to 10 pst, while larger enterprises more often report a significantly higher potential, up to 25 pst. In addition to every Norwegian throwing so much food a year, food is thrown through the whole food chain, from primary food to the consumer. It is both an environmental problem and a resource problem. It is clearly both economically and not least environmentally profitable to reduce food waste. In addition, it is important that non-edible food waste from shops, restaurants and other large kitchens is sorted for use as animal feed or for the production of biogas, bio-fertilisers or compost. The issue is clear: food losses should, must and should be reduced in Norway. But the question is how this is going to happen. In order to keep me very specific to the proposals that are to be voted on today: I believe that there is so much positive going on in different industries and value chains related to food that the actors must continue to work on their own through binding agreements. That's our reason for the position we've taken. Because, as referred to in the setting of the case, there is already a lot of good work going on today to reduce food waste. In May of this year, several government councils and an overall food industry signed an intention agreement to reduce food waste, as explained. The purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding is to strengthen cooperation between the authorities and operators throughout the food industry in order to further reduce food losses. That's the main focus for our part now. The left will follow developments closely, and I expect the government to do so too. The left strongly supports the work now being done by industry and government actors. Not least with regard to the environmental perspective, on which Mr Pollestad's representative has been challenged, we want to see what comes out of the binding agreements that have now been concluded before we move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1196	I would like to thank the proposers for raising a very important issue. Unlike the representative of the Left, SV does not believe that this is going to be done away with by voluntary trade agreements. It also needs instruments from the authorities to put in place mechanisms to reduce the spread of food in practice. As many representatives have been involved, throwing food is also a moral issue – food, which is such an important commodity in the world, for which there is a shortage, and which some people just don't have. The fact that we have a lot of food is a sign that there is also a distribution problem at the bottom here, which needs to be corrected. Then this is one of the little pieces that have to be put in place. It's not a question of whether we're going to do it, but of how fast we can do it. I'm sure SV could have wanted proposal No. 1 would have been a little bit more ambitious than that. Half of the discarding in Norway by 2030 is in line with what Norway has committed itself to through sustainability targets. However, when you look at the volume thrown in Norway compared to, for example, In France, which has now banned, we are already throwing twice as much food in Norway as France is doing. That's why that year should have been set up so that we really would have shown that you have to do something, and that you have to do it faster than the majority now intended. However, we are going to support this proposal, because it is the most ambitious decision-making process today, and of course we are also going to support the proposal that an action plan be drawn up to reduce food waste. It's incredibly important. We also believe that the government should consider the law adopted by France. For French food chains, a ban on the disposal of edible unsold goods has been introduced. Either they must conclude contracts in order to enable the disadvantaged to have the edible food or to be required to supply it for animal feed. Where it is possible to achieve this in France, it should also be possible to do so in Norway. Other things that need to be assessed are the use of different market mechanisms or different types of charges – VAT, fees, etc. – as we know works. The government says that they should assess VAT legislation, and I am pleased about that. It's not very smart that it pays to throw food away rather than give it away, because you have to pay VAT if you give away edible food – also to someone who proves to need it. However, for a government that believes in market mechanisms, it must also be possible to find other solutions, such as: fees or charges for what is paid. Finally, I also have to go into this gap for the cheapest food that the Minister of Agriculture has thrown at lately. It is the same gallop that some food chains also operate – take three payments for two, etc. Much of that is pure deception, because it's not even cheaper. But much of this way of marketing food is helping to get consumers to buy more than they really need. That results in throwing food. There is also a need to look at how marketing and attracting mechanisms are used in such a way that they create more food throws. I believe that this is an ethical problem that needs to be stopped, both because it trickles the consumer, and because it leads to throwing more food than you would if you bought one and paid for one – you should buy what you need and not be tempted to buy more than you really need. SV will support the proposals of the minority today and will await an action plan. We will also inform you that it is possible for us to come up with other, own proposals relating to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1215	In this case, we agreed on the goal, so I want to raise my eyes a little bit back to the global framework. There are some fundamental errors in the world's food markets. Even with overproduction of food, the principle of supply and demand does not work. The FAO has estimated that about one third of all food produced in the world is lost. The food produced is not distributed efficiently or fairly. Many starve while large parts of the food in the world are being thrown. At the same time, we know that the earth's population is growing and that climate change threatens food supply. Agricultural water resources are being drained in many places, and food land is becoming increasingly poorer and yields poorer crops. In addition, large parts of the world’s food production is dependent on monocultures and industrial agriculture, which are more vulnerable to climate change and plant diseases. So on top of this, we're building up the food soil in Norway – something we're going to talk about later today. Throwing food also has a climate accounting. The UN Development and Trade Organisation has estimated that as much as 44–53 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food, if all stages of the value chain are included. When one third of the food is lost or thrown worldwide, this means that 15-20 pst. greenhouse gas emissions can be linked to food waste. These are big numbers. Therefore, action against food waste is both a good social economy, a good resource economy and a completely central climate policy. I would like to thank the Central Party for the draft representative. I believe that both the government and the Left are alarmingly defensive with their waiting-and-see attitude in this matter. It's very fine, yes brilliant, with the initiatives that are now taking place in the food industry, but the tasks are far more than that and require the Storting to get involved in food waste. As a well-organised knowledge society, we have many opportunities to become the best in the world in the efficient and sustainable use of resources. In Norway, the food industry’s own project, ForMat, has identified the reasons for cooking. They develop a lack of knowledge about food and the fact that food in general is too cheap as two important reasons. Low prices do not invite contentment and awareness of the food as a resource. Today, the Nordics use approx. 11.8 pst. of the income on food. The documentation is clear. Cheap and wrong food leads to a waste of food with subsequent resource and climate pressures. The government should therefore take a closer look at how food is priced, and among other things. assess the proposals of the Greens to increase VAT on meat. Reduced meat consumption will improve resource use and reduce climate pressures. Although the interest in food is high, raw material knowledge is generally low. In practice, when food is thrown, it is not separated between ‘Last consumption day’ and ‘Best before’. Many do not make their own assessments of the raw materials before they are discarded. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen the knowledge of raw materials, durability and date labelling. Matsentralen Oslo is already a great measure – it is good that it is strengthened in the budget. We believe that the government must help to establish sustainable solutions that can also take care of other and smaller areas. The Greens will support the proposal to ask the government to halve the food loss in Norway by 2030. It's realistic, and I guess so. We also support proposal No. 2 to draw up a plan of measures to reduce food waste, but at the same time we believe that this matter is about much more than the use of food as a resource. In a world of limited resources in general, it is a shame that large amounts of food are burned — poor use of resources and poor use of energy. As a society, we have completed the industrial age where the focus was on the most efficient and the highest possible production. The new major challenge is to use knowledge and technology to make the best use of resources while at the same time taking care of them for future generations. This is bioeconomy, and here Norway has all the prerequisites to keep track of whether we use the opportunities that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1246	I share the concerns of the proposers that hundreds of thousands of tonnes of edible food are being wasted annually in Norway, and I also share the desire to reduce the amount of food wasted in Norway, at all stages of the value chain. The government is taking this seriously, and we are already engaged in many measures and projects to reduce the loss of food. I'm glad the committee noticed that. Together with the Minister for Climate and Environment, the Minister for Fisheries, the Minister for Health and Care and the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, I signed an intention agreement on the reduction of food waste and a global food industry in May. The whole industry is involved in cooperation, from primary industries to consumers. The purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding is to strengthen cooperation between the authorities and actors throughout the food chain, in order to further reduce food waste. The intention agreement will apply until it is replaced by a concrete industry agreement when there are statistics and indicators that can provide the basis for concrete reduction targets. The intention agreement is a good starting point for broader cooperation with the entire value chain in the food industry on how to further develop work on reducing food waste and increasing resource use. The aim is to sign the industry agreement in the autumn of 2016. The government also supports the industry’s own food waste prevention and reduction project, ForMat, which has been under way since 2010. ForMat’s gallup studies show that consumers threw less food in 2014 than in 2009. Many important industrial waste reduction measures are being implemented, such as new packaging solutions, short-term depreciation of goods and new products based on sorted raw materials. The creation of Matsentralen in 2013 is also an important response to food waste. This is now the Nordic food centre that distributes the most surplus food from the industry to NPISHs. The daily food industry often has food that cannot be considered as sales goods, e.g. due to date stamping or the condition of the packaging. In such cases, there is a gap between giving food to non-governmental organisations and destroying food. The value added tax means that companies may have an economic incentive to destroy the goods, as it is subject to a value added tax if the food is given away. In the 2016 government budget, the Ministry of Finance has announced that the Ministry of Finance will, at general consultation, submit a proposal to include a separate provision in the VAT law exempting the withdrawal of food delivered free of charge on a charitable basis. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food contributes funds to the Research Council's Bionary Programme, which supports research into sensor technology, robotization and more environmentally friendly processes to reduce and exploit food waste. Norwegian authorities are also actively involved in international efforts to reduce food waste in the UN, OECD, EU and Nordic Councils of Ministers. Since 2009, Norway has banned food waste from filling. While this waste is now mostly destined for combustion, feed production or composting, there is growing interest in increasing the share used for biogas. All of this shows that we are on the right track in tackling food waste in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the Business Committee agrees that we should primarily use awareness-raising work and continue to cooperate with the industry to find well-functioning measures to reduce food waste. Norway has joined the UN’s new sustainability target, including target 12.3, of halving the food loss by 2030. It is good that a Joint Committee agrees that it is best to stick to this objective, rather than to provide it with four years, as the original draft representative wished. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee believes it is natural to decide on any action plan to reduce discards once a binding trade agreement has been concluded. Finally, I just want to tell the representative Pollestad that I find it unworthy to compare delicious Christmas food with dog and cat food. I think it is a mockery of those who have produced the great food that we get bought at the shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1281	There are many who call for stronger lye, stronger lye. I understand the government council where – she should have – that you want to wait. It can come, as I read and hear the council, and that's good. With regard to the use of legal instruments, whether mandatory, prohibited or sanctioned, it is thus – as I said in my main post – that the Progress Party has been eager to use the strictest legal instrument against those begging for food, but is completely reversing commercial, large, strong actors in order to be able to use any legal action at all in order to take a step forward. Is that a dilemma for the Council of State? The other thing I would like to ask is, will it be appropriate to consider the French solution at a future date?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1290	The solution you have in France is that this applies to the shops that are over 400 m2, so not all shops in France get these rules. I believe that we will now first of all get a good industry agreement that will enable us to continue to reduce the loss. I think it's a lot about knowledge. I just have to admit that I myself earlier was quite skeptical when the milk went out on date. Instead of smelling and tasting it, I might have been a little inclined rather to pour it into the swallow, so it's kind of about learning a little bit more about, for example. the nature of the date on these goods. Eggs are a good example that was used here in the past, knowing that Norwegian eggs are safe, so they can be eaten for many weeks after they expire. These things are important to get out to consumers. I also think it's about packaging. We know that many live alone. Some of these packages available today are more suitable for families than for one-man households to arrest. [[The President Clubs Again]] That's what I got right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1300	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1303	Today there is a price war in Norwegian shops that has resulted in great Christmas food being almost given away, and what I did earlier was not to compare the groceries, but the prices of Christmas food and pet food. My question is, does the Council of State believe that the prices we now see on Christmas food will lead to more or less throwing food?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1310	I think that many who are struggling in our society, now can go to Christmas a little bit easier because Christmas is a celebration because there are a lot of expenses both for gifts and food, and you're going to enjoy yourself a little bit extra. You get a simpler everyday life just because you can buy the food cheaply. I think that's very good. It is also good for Norwegian agriculture, because it can help reduce travel to Sweden and trade. That is, we get the demand for Norwegian goods up. So I think what's happening now is very positive. We also have a situation where thousands of people have lost their jobs in the last year. That means they also have an economy that allows less. The fact that you go into the Christmas season with the price war of the time, fits very well. I am very happy about the price war and believe that consumers are well able to buy what they need, eat it and freeze what is left over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1319	I did not get an answer to my question, but I want to do it a little bit again. There are people who have produced this food that is now almost given away in Norwegian shops. Has the Council of State come up with any thoughts about what this can mean for the respect and understanding of the value of food as such, and respect for those who produce the food?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1324	The respect for those who produce the food will be at least the same. This helps many people to afford to buy good Christmas food, and nothing is better than that more people are allowed to taste the amazing food produced by Norwegian food producers. I think this is very good. In the case of the farmer, he gets paid what he's going to anyway, because it's the chains that are losing to having this price war. This is good for consumers, and for farmers it can also help to increase the turnover of a number of products. We know that in the case of milk, we have a situation where it is produced at the top a lot. The fact that the rice groats are cheap can lead to people eating more rice groats, thus remedying the situation for Norwegian milk producers. So I think it is very good that Norwegian goods become more reasonable. Several trades here instead of going to Sweden, there is an increase in demand, and the farmer gets paid what to have, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1333	I will first follow up on the question asked by the representative Storberget, because the Council of State did not answer that question. When you see that there is both a political and a social dilemma and a struggle between the government's attitudes to be so poor that you have to beg for food, and that someone has so much that they throw food, and that you think that individuals who are poor have to be regulated by bans, but those who have so much that they throw food – in large quantities, as we both say is a big problem – you are not willing to use regulations or some kinds of bans or instruments for them: doesn't the Council see that there is a big gap in attitudes towards those who have much, and those who have little?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1338	The most important thing for me is to make sure that we produce the food that Norwegian consumers want. I'm basically not very attached to the fact that we're still regulating new areas, finding new orders, finding new problems for ordinary people. So I think it's a starting point you shouldn't start with. On the contrary, one should start by trying to get good solutions without resorting to those kinds of instruments. That's why I'm so happy that we've had such good cooperation, both with the food industry and with the food industry, and that you work very well with these questions. An example that I had in mind was packaging. We know that many people live alone, we know that many people who go to the store to buy the packages that are available see that they may be more adapted to a family than they are to one person. That's why it's good to, for example. develops packaging that is more adapted to all the one-man households available. So this is about continuing to work on these tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1348	I note that the Council of State will not respond to the ban on poverty. But it's just to realize that you don't want to. The second question concerns what the representative Bastholm was about, namely that it is also a major environmental and climate policy aspect of producing food, and of course also of throwing food. Then my question to the Minister for Food and Agriculture is whether she has an overview of the amount of climate emissions associated with the throwing of food and whether she has a goal of how to reduce this emission, because this is emissions from a non-quota sector that needs to be regulated by other means than the allowance scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1355	The most important thing is to bring down the amount that we throw at by eating more of the food that is produced. But the second thing is that we are, for example, jobs with biogas plants. We see that a good part of the food that is destroyed goes into the biogas plant and takes that way. It's about making the most environmentally friendly solutions when you're about to destroy the food that's not being eaten. Then it is the very best measure: to make it even easier and, to some extent, also more profitable to give away food to those who need it, such as us. now by looking at the VAT Act. I think it is a very good step, and we have also received feedback from e.g. Tine, who says that it would have a lot to say to give away the food. They actually pay a lot today in fees to give away food. If you take it off, it'll be more attractive to give the food to those who need it, instead of throwing it away. It will be the very best action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1362	We agree that food as a resource should be used well, not thrown away. I would also like to believe that the Stortinget has meant it before. But anyway, we're throwing a terrible amount of food, and that might indicate that we're a little late to do something about it, and that we've talked a little bit about it. Then we all agree that the initiatives taken by the food industry are very good. But then the Greens believe that a little more political leadership is needed here, a little clearer voices out there – from among others. the Minister of Food — that this is a challenge, also to talk about food as a resource for the population. So my question to the Council of State is really what are the ambitions of the Minister of Food for the use of food as a resource in Norway, and what she wants to do to inspire and engage both producers, food chains, professional organisations and consumers to take care of the food we produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1369	When it comes to clear voices against cooking, I would say that I have been a pretty clear vote against it, and I have, of course, set up in all the arenas where it has been desirable, to promote that we should not throw food. I think that's important, this by getting out to the consumers and telling them what this really means. A family of four can save NOK 10,000 a year if you stop throwing food. It's something that'll almost be a Southern holiday, so it's economical good, but it's also good for the environment. So it's about working with the ones that are the keys here. It's the food industry, it's the food chain, and we have a close cooperation with them in this particular matter. So we're going to continue working to bring down the food waste and also to increase the value of the food, which the representative is talking about, and which I fully agree we have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1376	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1381	The proposers raise a very topical problem, and I share the concern of the proposers that hundreds of thousands of tons of edible food will be thrown each year. Norway has joined the UN's sustainability targets, including targets for halving food waste by 2030 – and that's good. Some measures are in progress, and this is also good. There's no disagreement there. But it doesn't help with beautiful words and wishes if you don't get concrete measures to help. I totally agree with the representative Hemdal here – it must act until now. Then it doesn't help much that a bunch of pussies are here today and are worried about them. Norway actually throws twice as much food as France. So I'm surprised that the government doesn't want to consider imposing a ban on the throwing of food, as they do in France. The food must be given away there, for example. to voluntary organisations, which in turn can pass on to those who need it the most. Although this applies only to the large shops, it helps well. The one argument to use is that one cannot handle this. Honestly, if you had wanted it, you would have really gotten it done. In these days of the Paris climate summit, we should be busy with the climate by throwing so much food. 30,000 breads a day, it can feed many. We're throwing about 25 pst. of the food we buy. If we turn it around a little bit, the food could have been 25 pst. cheaper if we had stopped throwing good edible food. But we have a government that doesn't want to draw up an action plan, as the minority suggests. The second argument is that this government does not want any more bans or prohibitions. As the representative of Storberget said – when it comes to the bottom of the table, those sitting on the street begging for food, the government will forbid this. When it comes to the big commercial chains that throw food, the government won't have a ban. It's a cross of thought. It's a double morality, as it's called. Information campaigns about the difference between ‘best before’ and ‘sustainable to’ will be a good tool and can be started immediately. Campaigns for the use of short-range food and getting these master chefs who are in all channels for the time being, to show us which delicious dishes can also be made from rest food, will also be measures. Development of packaging is also important in order to extend sustainability. Both a plan of action is needed to reduce discards and ambitious targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1398	Thank you for a good debate on a matter that involves many. As mentioned earlier, government councils and a global food industry have an intention to reduce food waste. It's very good and expresses a desire to help reduce this problem. More people here in the debate have said that we need stronger lye, and we need fees. But I think this case has so much focus that this will happen. It has already begun to happen that people are more obsessive about this problem. In order to reach an industry agreement, we need better statistics and indicators that can provide the basis for concrete reduction targets. Based on the indicators on what may be appropriate measures, we can set concrete reduction targets. The work is inside a very good track. Once a binding trade agreement has been concluded, it is natural to decide on the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1409	It was Ingrid Hegge's posts that made me take the floor. I think the debate is rather confusing – when it is up to a worker party representative to stand here and say that it is double-ethical so that it sticks with a government that has done something. This issue was raised for eight years without even paying attention to the issue. Feeding and resource-loss in total is a challenge, so it's clear we're going to be concerned about it. But if we go into the concrete, one is the daily food sales. There the government has done what the red-green government could have done – it will assess VAT exemption, so it is possible to give away the food. The next challenge of food-suspension is the decision of individuals. I spend quite a lot of time on my children regarding the best-before date and expiry date, and try to get them to smell at least on the food before it is thrown. I think a lot of people do that, and it's a pretty big job. I note that most of it goes straight out if the best-before date has expired. We must therefore regulate the attitudes of individuals. I think it's pretty complicated. And when you mix poverty issues and food problems in a debate, you get to decide which legs to stand on. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture that it must be a pleasure for Norwegian agriculture to have the kind of symbol goods that make shops use them to attract people. For those who have bad advice, there is no doubt that getting Christmas ribs cheap is a good thing. So you can't stand here and criticize both. The fact that the food is too cheap just means that we produce too much already. Then at least you can't worry that there's too little food. Overall, I think this is a debate where you start to clean up what's the big concern. Poverty is – I agree – a huge challenge. We're all concerned that everyone should have the resources to buy the food they need, but that at the same time the world is unable to produce the food we need, there's nothing to suggest. And the fact that everyone complains that the food is too cheap indicates that we are not using the production capacity in the world, because if the food prices had gone up, we would probably have produced a lot more. So I think this is a debate that needs a pretty strong clearing up of which side you're actually on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1422	When it's about saving money and the environment at the same time, then not a healthy morning is uncertain! I want to point to the minority's comments and the idea that one can put consciousness into throwing food as a competence goal in the school. I think of it as very reasonable and as a way of making better use of the school to also get a person's economy and see how one can use the food that is in the refrigerator. I would also like to mention a theme about how long the trash has gone, so one calls it "dumping" in English called "dumpster diving". It is very popular among students to open forest boxes outside stores to find food and bread that the shops are well to throw. So this is a way for students to save money, and it says a little about overproduction and how much food the food chains provide. I hope that the Council of State Listhaug will take these signals further and also open up so that the shops themselves may choose to pass the food on for charity purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1433	I agree with the first statement made by the representative, Mr Gundersen, where he expressed great confusion – and he must be. His conclusion, where he called for cleaning up, one might agree, but it did not get much cleaner after hearing Gunnar Gundersen. I feel the need to clarify that when some representatives in this room have actually stated that we think it is a bit strange, strange, that you are turning all the way back to using legal instruments specifically against major actors in the daily food industry, then we are not talking about – as the representative Gunnar Gundersen, in my opinion, is turning it into – regulating the choices of individuals. That's exactly what we're not doing. We want to look at the French model, where we have taken action that, at my discretion, has produced good results, even not necessarily penalized legal rules, but where you use the law as an instrument to get big players to find other channels for the excess food you're sitting with. So when the Workers' Party wants us to adopt an action plan here in Stortinget with an element of that kind of legislation, it's not to regulate individuals, as Gundersen in his confusion was going to say. I guess it's easy to say that cheap Christmas ribs, or sour cabbage for 1 kroner per package, are because we make e.g. too much acidic cabbage in Norway, there is so much production of it. That's also a pretty confused starting point. Every one of us who's been involved in industrial policy realizes that many of these mechanisms are not about overproduction of sour cabbage, but that it's about having some baits to get people into the store. You might like that or not, but it's an expression of an unhealthy overproduction, I have problems with that. So if you're calling for clean-up here from this pulpit, because it's a confused debate, I wasn't particularly impressed by Gunnar Gundersen's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1444	I can assure Storberget that I was not very impressed either, because I think it is very special that there is a former Minister of Justice standing here and saying that we should use the law for all sorts of strange things. I believe that the law should be used quite pointed at what it can actually work for. It's a choice between carrot and whip. At least we will first look at the investigation that is coming, about the exemption from VAT. It's a pretty powerful measure, and I think most of the food chains follow it up, so maybe a law isn't necessary. But at least this government has done a lot more than previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1452	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1466	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1473	The case concerns the closure of fur animal nutrition, and the proposer considers in its summary that cagekeeping of reefs and minks is so problematic for animal welfare that the mode of operation must be discontinued. In this context, it is proposed that Norwegian fur-farming be immediately implemented and an immediate stop in new establishments. It is also proposed to investigate and submit to the Storting a ban on imports and placing on the market of products from capture or animal husbandry which cannot be detected under Norwegian regulations. The Committee has examined the matter and, like the proposer, is concerned about critical attitudes and the handling of animals discovered by certain fur farms. We also point out that such critical conditions do not describe the general everyday life of Norwegian fur farms. At the same time, the Committee is aware that improvements have been made in Norwegian fur farming and that further improvements in Norwegian fur farming will be required. The Committee is concerned that animal welfare concerns should be taken into account in Norwegian fur production and that there has been much improvement in the past years. The Committee is also concerned that we should – for the time being at least – have a farming industry in Norway and also know that many depend on this industry through its activities in Norwegian agricultural production. Much has been done in the field of animal welfare in Norway. Regulations and rules have been amended to impose much more stringent requirements on the production of fur now than had been done in the past. We have been required to have flexible housing systems, we have a requirement for frost-free and automatic drinking facilities, we have a requirement for minimum areas, we have a requirement for year-round concealment, and there will be a requirement for team and killing skills, there will be a requirement for manual handling, and there will also be requirements for more frequent supervision and care. The government has been given a reorganization of the Food Authority. Food surveillance has, then, put in place a significant increase in the control and supervision of pet farms. There is probably no industry in livestock production that has as much supervision and control as the fur animal industry has. What's joyous is also that the industry itself takes this most seriously, even though we have some aberrations. Then it's good to see that when we have those deviations, the industry actually also takes a settlement with these deviations, like they do. did so when the fur animal industry on 14 October withdrew a certification and notified a mincocopper. This shows that the industry takes animal welfare very seriously. Now it's important to note that we've received a report on the follow-up of fur animal husbandry through the Pelrus Committee's report. The government announces that they will provide a big message that is also a follow-up to the conciliation in the State budget in 2014. A notification shall be submitted reviewing the entire fur animal industry, which looks at its impact, assesses the possible closure and, in particular, looks at the continuation of a sustainable industry in Norway. With that, I hope we get a good debate about just having a responsible animal husbandry. We will have a new case in 2016 with a review of the industry as a whole, which addresses the consequences, as I said, of possible liquidation, but also of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1488	The Workers' Party wants a controlled closure of Norwegian fur animal nutrition. We have expressed that in several debates. We believe it should be directed, and that we need to discuss thoroughly the nature of the closure, especially in terms of time, and not least in terms of compensation to the industry. Based on the previous debate, I think that the situation in the industry we are now discussing is a very good example of the fact that quite many years of efforts – political debate, statements, voluntary action, industry intervention – have shown that there is also a need here to take action. Sick to be careful to bring out some episodes and situations when it's a whole industry, I have to say that the situation, as it has emerged from fur animal nutrition in the last year, has not been fortunate and has not exactly strengthened the perception that we have come as far as we would like with voluntary measures and industrial involvement, in which a good part of the parties have great faith. What the Workers' Party is concerned about now, when it comes to this industry and animal welfare, is that time is running out. We got the Pels Committee position last December, as far as I recall, so it's been a year since this came. So both for the sake of nutrition and well-being and predictability, and not least for the sake of animal welfare, I believe that the government here should have delivered measures earlier. That is why we believe that the government has to come to the Stortinget as quickly as possible, not later than the spring of 2016, with the issue that has been announced, so that the Stortinget can take a decision on this complex, mainly because the uncertainty that is now in the industry is not good for anyone, that it should be concluded once and for all – in my opinion – and that predictability will also be created around any compensation schemes and winding-up measures that the Workers' Party wants. It is against this background that we have proposed that the government should return to Stortinget during the spring of 2016. I therefore take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1499	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1502	The right is concerned with good animal welfare, compliance with laws and regulations, and supervision is good enough to reveal and hatch those who do not comply with the rules adopted. The monitoring of fur animal nutrition has been intensified in recent years, and no other animal husbandry currently has such frequent controls. A separate section on animal welfare was established during the reorganization of the Food Authority. A new regulation on the fee for infringements has also been adopted under the Animal Welfare Act to provide the Food Safety Authority with a new instrument to promote compliance with the law. This has led to an overall increase in the number of inspections by 22 pst and an increase in the number of inspections under the Animal Welfare Act by nearly 20 pst. The supervision of fur animal nutrition is extensive, and every year the Food Authority carries out about 250 inspections in the country's around 270 fur farms. Fur - feeding is an important industry for many, especially in the districts, and many operate in a sound and good way. In December 2014, a Norwegian public investigation into the fur industry was submitted. The investigation is followed up by the fact that in the autumn of 2016 the government will present its own grossing-up report on Norwegian fur husbandry. In this Communication, the consequences of any managed closure of the industry will be assessed. It is natural to address the question of the future of this industry when the Stortinget is informed of Norwegian fur farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1518	All animal husbandry shall be based on good animal welfare. We make strict demands on animal welfare – that's right, and that's right. Then it is completely unacceptable when fur breeders do not relate to the laws and regulations adopted to ensure animal welfare, which we have unfortunately seen some examples of. So it's good that this fall we've seen examples of the opposite, where the fur farmers themselves and their organizations speak of stronger lye when it's revealed things that you can't accept. I also want to pay a visit to NRK's documents from last year's fall. This documentary showed that we have the legislation in place, but that the legislation is not being followed. Then there are attitudes, and it may be even more demanding to change attitudes when, as legislators, we cannot do it through legislation, and we cannot do it through regulations. Then we see that we have a great potential for improvement. We in the Christian People's Party therefore look forward to the matter that the government has announced will come to the autumn, in order to get the thorough review that we need of this industry, based on the NOW that the Council of State and the government received last Christmas. We believe that this industry needs a comprehensive review and cannot support today's proposal for a representative, but we look forward to entering into all parts of this issue and taking an overall assessment during the next winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1527	The centre party wants to continue a Norwegian fur animal nutrition. The centre party supports the majority of the sample that the previous government put down to look at the fur animal industry, which resigned NOU 2014:15. Norwegian fur animal nutrition is a profitable industry. It is a district industry with significant potential. It is an industry that handles, among other things, waste. slaughterhouse. And it's an industry that operates under strict regulation and with a lot of supervision. I feel that the debate on fur animals is difficult. Many people argue in a wise and good way why they don't want fur nutrition. There might be a good one to take that discussion. At the same time, it is a debate venue that virtually legitimizes extremism. The day after the Paris attacks, there was a great demonstration in Oslo, and it upset me that – without any intervention – one could go with banners saying, 'Kill the farmers!' That's not acceptable, that's all the reason to respond, and I also believe that those who stood as organizers should have intervened to prevent it from happening. What I feel is most difficult, and what seems to be most difficult for the industry is the uncertainty that a person lives under. In the 2013 election campaign, I was visiting fur animals together with the current State Council of Solvency Horne. She expressed very clear support for the fur animal nutrition. In a look-up in Stavanger Aftenblad in advance of the election in 2013, Siri Meling promised to win the election, and then a blue hand was to be placed over Norwegian fur nutrition. So I have learned that when someone comes with blue hands, you should be a little skeptical and preferably run off. What we've seen is that this government has done with fur animal nutrition is that it's done some strange things. For example, a removed premium for the transport of feed has been marked as a major animal welfare policy. It's not. Because there can't be any animal protection in saying that it's okay to do something in central strokes, but to make it more difficult to maintain it in the districts. Now I assume that the industry is dealing with this situation itself, so that the fur industry is still going to be a district industry. Similarly, I would warn against removing replacement subsidies to the industry and calling it animal protection, for farmers without vacation and leisure are not better able to care for their animals. It's a long time to wait for the industry. Only after three years will the government conclude with its position. But one should know that the Center Party is on and wants to further develop fur animal nutrition, and it should be an industry in Norway that is best in the world for animal welfare in fur animals. It means that it will be necessary to constantly make changes, constantly make improvements to the industry, but one must know that one has a political majority behind it. It is important for those who consider investing, and it is important because many of these investments are investments in animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1544	In 2003, on the initiative of the Left and on the initiative of the Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim, a total of 10 years was allocated to the fur industry in order to ensure domestic fur animals and to convert the farming systems in order to stimulate animals to natural behaviour and to ensure the social needs of animals. This Decision required the closure of the industry if it was unable to meet these requirements. Today we can see that the breeding work of the Pelsa breed has failed and that the time limit has expired. Most of the heavy professional environments, such as the Veterinary Association, the Veterinary Institute and the Animal Ethics Council, are in favour of eliminating fur production for animal welfare reasons. The Food Safety Authority assesses the current forms of fur animal husbandry as being animal-welfarely challenging and has stated the following: «Based on our knowledge of domestication and the behavioural needs of animals, there is good reason to believe that the species-specific needs of these animals are not satisfied in current forms of farming.» This is not primarily about critical conditions in individual farms, which can often be impressed by the follow-up to the fur animal debate in the media, but – as the proposer writes – about ‘an animal husbandry which is so fundamentally in line with Norwegian animal welfare law’. There are ‘no other types of animal husbandry inspected’ as much ‘of the Food Safety Authority as fur animals’ and a great many measures have been taken ‘to improve animal welfare’. No, this matter is quite simply about the fact that keeping the reef and the mink in cages cannot be made animal-welfare safe, even if it is in line with the current regulations on the keeping of fur animals. Through the treatment of the 2003 Animal Welfare Communication, the Stortinget was very clear that there would be a significant improvement in the welfare of animals in the industry by 2013. Unfortunately, there is no noticeable improvement in tracking. The government has said that in the autumn of 2016 it will present its own forecast of Norwegian fur husbandry, and that in that notification there will be an impact assessment of the possible closure of the industry. The left believes, however, that we have enough knowledge, and we have sufficient means to start such a closure of Norwegian fur farming right now. Such winding-up can be implemented through the prohibition applicable from 2017, by introducing winding-up and conversion aid from 2017 onwards, and by introducing a cease-fire from 2016 onwards. The total subsidy to the fur animal industry is about $22.5 million. kr for the financial year 2016. We believe that this grant should rather be used as conversion aid and that, in the context of a three-year liquidation period, followed by a two-year conversion period, public funds should be allocated to non-recurring and demolition costs. It is high time that Norway followed countries such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Denmark, England and Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Slovenia, all of which have either tightened up or abandoned their fur nutrition. What we need now is not further investigations, but we need clear decisions that fulfill old promises. I would like to take this opportunity to put forward the Left's proposal to introduce a ban on fur farming in force from 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1566	The representative Guri Melby has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1570	Then I can immediately say that SV is going to support the Left's proposal. That is a good suggestion, and I agree with every word that the representative Melby said in his post. Fur animals must be discontinued. We know enough about that now. We have tried long enough, and there are absolutely fundamental reasons, on which the representative Melby was involved, for this decision to be implemented. It is because this is a production that is strictly not absolutely necessary and it should be strictly necessary to keep animals in captivity. And if you are to keep animals in captivity, it must also be possible to domesticate the animals in such a way that they do not experience an obstacle to their natural way of life, and in such a way that handling that is necessary in connection with various forms of care and veterinary supervision, but also in the phase of killing, can take place without the need to use tools and violence to carry out what is to be done. None of this has been achieved in the breeding work in the case of fur animals. I would also like to point out that the Veterinary Association, the Veterinary Institute and the Animal Ethics Council have taken steps to abolish fur production for animal welfare reasons. The Food Safety Authority has also concluded, in line with what SV does, that current forms of animal welfare management are very challenging, and that it is very difficult to imagine how, with practical arrangements, it is possible to make the fur industry animal friendly in such a way that it can be accepted, and that at the same time there should be some kind of economy in this production. We support the Left's proposal that this resolution should now be taken – it is overly mature. But, of course, measures need to be put in place to allow a transition for those who are doing this and to obtain reasonable compensation during a liquidation period. It is also important, SV believes, that the government is now looking at the support schemes provided to this industry. I know that the government has abolished some of it – it’s positive – but it’s a little absurd to support it during a production that has such serious animal ethical challenges, and that is not strictly necessary, because it’s not exactly food produced. A luxury article is produced that is completely unnecessary to produce in today's society. So we want to support the proposals of the Left. Subsidized, we can support the Labour Party's proposal because it is a bit on the road. I assume that, unfortunately, it does not become the majority of the Left's proposals today, which it should be. Then we will be able to subsidize the Workers' Party's proposal, which is one step closer to a solution than to wait another year to get that matter to the Stortinget, which the government should be able to provide based on the knowledge that we have today. It would have been interesting to hear, when the Council of State is going to take the floor, what kind of a principle view she has of this production, whether she has a principle approach to the fact that there are some animal ethical boundaries that cannot be challenged and that one cannot go beyond, especially when there is a production that is not necessary to provide the world with food, and that there must be particularly strict measures when one has tried and tried and tried – and as the representative Hemdal said, has also adopted and adopted – without it looking to have made the situation significantly better. It is true that it is not really possible to adapt this production to the animal welfare requirements set by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1587	Norway must be the best in the world in animal welfare. That is why we have an animal welfare law, which confirms that animal species-specific and individual needs must be ensured. But as long as we have fur nutrition in Norway, the Animal Welfare Act is broken every day. That is why the Green Party has promoted this proposal to abolish fur animal nutrition, with a conversion aid, which would prevent new puppies from being placed on the parents of spring. It's a big misunderstanding that you can keep the mink and the reef in the cage without breaking their elementary needs. There are no limits to how many demands the rapporteur could put up here, which you would like to make or have put to the industry in order to try to meet the natural needs of animals for freedom. This misunderstanding occurs when, in addition to the majority of the population, all the trade unions believe that fur farming must be discontinued, that some people believe it is because of some images on television or in the newspapers. However, it does not keep the animals well cared for and follow the regulations when the very form of farming is in line with the most basic animal needs. In addition to animal welfare organisations, the Animal Ethics Council, the Veterinary Institute, the Veterinary Association, the University of Bergen, the Minding Animals and the Association of Our Carnivores believe that fur farming must be discontinued. Even the Food Authority has gone as far as they can as directorate in this matter, and believes that the species-specific needs of the animals, as required by law, are not satisfied with today's forms of operation, i.e. in cages. It's therefore alarming, I think, when the entire committee reminds us that fur animal nutrition is now being inspected by the Food Authority more than any other animal husbandry, without at the same time realizing the reason. Rev and mink are complex predators with complex needs. They're hunting over big territories. In breeding they get food in the form of porridge, which fills the stomach and gives fine fur, but it can in no way satisfy the needs of a fox or mink has for food and hunting. The reason why we want winding up and not just tightening up the regulations is that it is not realistic with other forms of operation than housing for fur animals. It says the industry itself, and the industry has previously rejected another type of team. It is an honest thing, I believe, to believe that animal needs should not be respected, and that the law to take care of it was a kind of incursion in the nutrition committee in 2009, but that animal friends in the Progress Party, the Right, the Center Party and even the Christian People's Party do not see that reefs and minks can never be kept safe in cages, and I must honestly admit that I do not understand that. Nor is it an important district industry. If it is an important district industry, it is as an identity marker, because people who otherwise stand up for agriculture and the important job they do, the important food interests, also stand and defend the hold of cage predators completely across professional recommendations. The industry has become more and more centralised, especially the mink farms, which in Rogaland have begun to grow so large that the owners are no longer for farmers to count at all. They're business-driven. 60 pst. of fur-bred animals are not now linked to food production. Fur bred, says the Greens, is not just a shame for agriculture – it is contrary to the law. We do not lack instruments. We don't need knowledge. We don't need a hearing response. What we lack are politicians who dare to take an ethical position that is different from what we took 30 years ago, who dare say that for the same reason that we have imposed grazing requirements for cows, or the prohibition of the fixing of sows in pig production, for the same reason that we have animal supervision in Norway and much more stringent requirements for the territory, that there is 1 km2 for foxes in the zoo, we must also stop keeping reefs and minks in cages. I think Councillor Listhaug is a politician who can take such a position. I disagree with the Council of State for a lot, but she does – as she was in the past today – have. So I put my trust in Listhaug and the government parties. We in the Greens do not believe that compensation schemes are needed if we are to offer conversion aid, but if that is what is going to happen, we are in favour of it. And we will support the proposals of both the Left and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1613	The representative of Storting Hansson has made a proposal to immediately initiate the winding-up of Norwegian fur production and to investigate an import and marketing ban on products from catches or animal husbandry which cannot be found to be authorised in accordance with Norwegian regulations. The Fur Animal Committee delivered its position on 15 December 2014 and the Stortinget has asked the government to assess the ban on Norwegian fur farming in the follow-up to the Pelrus Committee. In the budget proposal, the government has said that we aim to return to Stortinget with a case of follow-up of NOU on Norwegian fur animal husbandry in the autumn of 2016. The Government, like the proposer, has not already taken a decision on the issue of possible liquidation and is therefore required to assess this on the basis of a proper and adequate basis in the case before the Stortinget. This must be based, inter alia, on: on a review of the report and the hearing opinions of the Committee on fur animals. Furthermore, it requires a more detailed review of the legal status of breeders in the event of liquidation, an estimate of the economic impact on breeders in view of possible compensation for farmers and an assessment of the socio-economic impact. The matter must also illustrate the animal welfare of the fur animal industry, which is the main argument of the opponents for the closure of the industry. Let me say that the unacceptable examples that we have seen of breaches of laws and regulations must be taken into account, and that is done. But it also doesn't give us the right to cut everyone over a comb for that reason. The proposer mentions that both the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Veterinary Association consider that fur animal husbandry in Norway should be discontinued, but professional input from veterinarians supporting the industry has also been made in the consultation of the Pels Committee’s report. It is important that the decision Stortinget makes is based on the best possible basis, and I believe that this is ensured by following the process that the government has set up. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee believes it is natural to consider the question of the future of the industry when the government presents its case to the Stortinget. I would like to comment briefly on a minority comment that Norway should follow a number of countries that ‘have either tightened or abandoned its fur animal nutrition’. It is referred to, for example: Denmark and Sweden as examples. In the case of Denmark, it is intended that reefholding is finally phased out from 2024, but it may still be misleading to bring Denmark forward in such a context as this is the world’s largest producer of mink skin. In 2013, Denmark exported minkskinn for SEK 13.4 billion. DKK and employed approx. 6,000 people. In Sweden, reef production has been discontinued following the introduction of stricter requirements on how foxes could be kept, but in the case of mink production is larger than in Norway. Otherwise, it is correct to point out that grants for the transport of fur feed are discontinued from 2016 onwards. This grant was in the year around Seventy-eight million. kr. The outstanding outstanding grants are redeployment grants and grants for breeding measures, which in recent years have been of about approx. $14 million. kr and approx. One million. kr. With regard to the proposal by the representative Hansson for a ban on imports and placing on the market of products originating in the fishing or livestock sector which cannot be found to be authorised under Norwegian regulations, this is quite clear. The government will, as far as it is considered appropriate, come back to this also in the case of fur animals for the Storting. I can finally add that with regard to the representative Pollestad, I have a great understanding that the industry is impatient. But I still believe that it is our duty to do a thorough job before we present this matter to the Stortinget, because there are some things here that need to be thoroughly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1635	At the end of his speech, the Council of State was concerned about the need for a thorough investigation and that there was also uncertainty in the industry, which was part of the answer to what I was actually going to ask about. It is that for the industry, but also for those of us who are concerned that animal welfare is not adequately protected by the system we have today, and with the permits that are actually granted, it would be close to thinking that now as soon as possible you came to the Storting – and I give the Council of State an opportunity to perhaps meet one of the lines today: will it not be possible for the government to settle this question and come to the Storting during the spring session, so that we get the predictability that industry needs, but also other considerations in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1640	This is a complicated matter, because it's not every day – and I'm glad for it – we're going to assess and go into the question of leaving a business in Norway. Fortunately, it is very rare that we are given such assignments, but it is therefore important that we do a real job in terms of the economic aspect. It's about the right of those in this industry today to compensation. In that case, if the Storting decides to wind up the industry, the amount of this compensation shall be. There are very important questions that need to be clarified. And it's clear that then you have to do a thorough calculation, and it takes a little bit of time. In addition, the government parties have to decide on the question of the future of this industry, and therefore we will now have a thorough process and come back in the autumn of 2016, and then the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss the matter thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1647	It's very much if and about but in the articles and answers of the Council of State. The question is whether the Council of State is aware of and acknowledges the professional view of both the Veterinary Institute and other professional bodies that this animal husbandry is not ethically sound, and that it is not possible to defend it because it is impossible to domesticate wild predators in the way that animals are kept in cages today. They can't in any way be said to live out their completely natural life patterns. Is the Council of State aware of that and does she recognize it, and in that case will she take the consequences of it and support the liquidation of fur animal husbandry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1654	I am well aware that there are strong feelings associated with this matter. I know that there are also different opinions. And as I was in my post, there are also different opinions in the trade unions. One has the Veterinary Institute that is to wind up the industry, and one has some veterinarians who work with this industry daily, who have opposite views. Those who have made their contributions to this matter will just reflect that there are different views on this matter. I expect myself to follow quite closely, so I have seen an overview of this. But now I think it's right for the government to have the opportunity to do the job that is needed for the autumn, so that we can present a good big message to the Stortinget, which gives the opportunity for a broad and good debate on this matter next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1661	I understand that the government has not decided on this matter. I respect that. In the years that this Council of State has been Minister of Agriculture, I have criticized the Council of State too much, but I have never criticized her for not having opinions about much. So then my question is, what does the Council of State mean even about the future of the industry for which she is the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1670	Now the representative Pollestad is such a powerful politician that he knows that when I'm going to express my opinions, it's by anchoring it in the government. I'm going to do that. We're going to spend the time towards the harvest to actually do that. Then I just want to point out another thing, where I fully agree with the representative Pollestad, and it's that he was in his intervention that the day after 130 people were killed in Paris, there was a marking here in Oslo against fur animals. First of all, you can question the timing of it – at least I hadn't been in the mood to walk in the streets and fight this industry the day after 130 people were killed in Paris. The second is that I, like him, too, would say that the message being given with Kill the Farmers, I think, is far from what is acceptable. So I hope we don't see any such kind of message from the fur animal opponents again. I think we should have a substantive debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1677	From those who reject Document No. The 8 proposal and the proposals contained in it from the Committee have been shown that we should have more controls, we should have a stricter regulation and then everything will be fine. Yes, well -- let's listen to those who carry out the checks, to those who administer the code, and let's listen to the Food Authority, who, through a hearing interview with the Pelly Committee, to the NOU, comes up with a sharp criticism of animal relations: ‘The Danish Food Safety Authority assesses the current forms of farming of fur animals as animal-welfare challenging.’ «Based on our knowledge of domestication and the behavioural needs of animals, there is good reason to believe that the species-specific needs of these animals are not satisfied in current forms of farming.» Then the Food Authority refers to the minority conclusion that it would not be justified to continue, and writes: ‘The Food Safety Authority agrees with this assessment and considers that this doubt must benefit the animals.’ Is the Council of State in agreement with its own profession that doubt should benefit the animals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1698	As I said, this government is going to present a big message for the autumn, where we're going to announce the government's view on this issue. Now it is important that we do a thorough and good job of calculating and providing the assessments that Stortinget has asked of us. We're going to do that. Of course, the hearing opinion from the Food Safety Authority will be part of what we are looking at when we decide. But here's the different point of view. There are also strong feelings on both sides, so there is one thing that is difficult, and that will, of course, create a big debate when it comes – whether you fall on one view or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1705	If I am allowed to follow up: the Council of State always shows that there are different points of view – there are always different points of view in all matters, I believe – but I'm a little curious about what kind of academics, trade unions, the Council of State leans on when it refers to those who think that here it's defensive to move on. Because, as far as I know, if a member of the Food Authority, the Veterinary Institute, most of the other authorities in the field, they mean that we don't get this, purely animal-ethical, and they conclude with no. Who, then, is the Council of State still pointing? Obviously, veterinarians who work in the Pels Animal Battle, etc., for obvious reasons think that this is just to continue, but I'm a little interested in who the Council of State leans on when it refers to all those who think that here it's just to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1710	It is clear that the industry itself wants to move on. Clearly, among veterinarians who are in contact with this industry and who see how it operates daily, there are support players. There are different points of view on this matter, and there are strong feelings on both sides. That's why there's one thing that's difficult, and that's going to create a big debate when the government decides which side we're going to fall on. So the next harvest will be a big discussion, and then we will also get all our arguments for the basis on which we build our conclusion. We have not yet taken a decision on this, so I expect the representative Rotevatn to look forward to it with excitement. Then we're going to have a really good discussion when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1717	In the case of the veterinarians to whom the Council of State refers and who may support this form of operation, which is on farms and checks there in connection with the industry's own supervision, they have been paid by the NPA, that is, the Pet species. The Minister of Agriculture has introduced animal police, but in this case there is neither investigation nor supervision, nor, for that matter, fur farmers, there is something wrong with it – these are the animals. It's the wrong animal. We keep reefs and creases in cages, and we do that because we encouraged them in the 1980s for food producers to have a side income. It puts the state in a dilemma, and therefore we should probably give them either compensation or some kind of conversion aid. But my question is a little in the same direction as the previous representative: what professional arguments, what knowledge, what experience is the government now concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1726	As I said in my previous answer, there are different opinions on this matter, and it is clear that the veterinarians who are out on the farms have their views on it. The Pelsal Act has its point of view on that, the Swedish Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute have their point of view on it – many people have a point of view on this matter. Of course, we're going to go through all of them and look at them before we finally decide which side we're going to fall on. What's absolutely certain is that regardless of whether you choose one side or the other, there's going to be a big debate. As I said, it is to assess the closure of an industry in Norway not every day we do, and fortunately for that. There are probably few parties that want to wind up the industry. The Green Party is probably one of the few people who want to wind up a lot of industries, including the industry that is the most important for the country, namely the oil industry, so we have a different starting point, but we have to take the debate on the fur industry next harvest, because then it comes to the Storting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1736	Thank you to the Greens, the Greens, who have submitted the draft representative, which is the starting point for today's debate. It is not a debate that is new to the Storting, and it is in no way a debate that will disappear before the government lands on the conclusion recommended by those who know something about this field and who are independent. All the photos we see from non-driving fur farms, and the statistics we read from those who conduct systematic research, are not about the bad behavior of the individual farmer. I have no doubt that very many, not to say almost everyone, who is drifting within the industry, want to operate well. Nor is it about the fact that the legislation is too weak. It's about wild animals not staying home in small cages. That's what it says. There's a lot of heavy ethical objections to what we're doing today, from what can crawl and go by trade unions. It is not said that everything is brilliant when it comes to other animal husbandry in this country. There is much that can be critical because animal welfare is not good enough in food production, etc. Nevertheless, I think there is an important practical and ethical difference between food production and necessary livestock farming and what, in order to be honest, is a completely unnecessary livestock farming. Fur nutrition has nothing to do with all the arguments we usually use when talking about Norwegian agriculture. It's not about self-sufficiency. It's not about cultural landscapes. It's about employment to a very limited extent. And no, the Center Party: it's actually not about district either. Furnace nutrition is not an excellent district food industry. Only 5 pst. the production takes place in the least central strokes – 5 pst. 52 pst. is in the most central strata in our country. I'm basically in agreement with the Council of State that it's not every day that we debate whether we're going to give up an industry, and that's good. Yes, I can join it. But I have a liberal starting point, not a conservative starting point. That means that I don't mean that because something is like that, it's automatically a reason that it should be like that. One must look critically at everything we do. If someone had come today and suggested that "Dear Minister of Agriculture, we would like to block animals in small cages to make fur from them," we would never have allowed it to be established. Then one should also ask that question today. I hope that the Left's proposal can bring together a multiple here in the hall. In any case, we will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Labour Party. So I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will be aware of his responsibilities and see that this is a conclusion we're going to reach in any case, and then she can let the industry know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1751	Usually in politics, one is concerned about following professional advice, so the exact disagreement about what the professional advice is is is quite important. And then I think it's important to be honest with which veterinarians, paid by whom, who believe this industry is doing well. I have followed the case for quite many years, and there are some arguments that have been myths, which have been used and taken up. These aren't up in the debate today, and I'm very happy about that. Because it is something that animal welfare in general bears the mark of, that it is rejected very quickly as a feeling when you try to make professional arguments. So for this matter, it's not about the few, it's not about the images we watch on TV, and it's not just seen in the harvest, as it's been mentioned, but what we've seen for many, many years. It is about the basic forms of operation that this industry has and it is not able to provide any alternative to keep the animals properly. One of the reasons I chose to speak now was the stigmatisation I see there is a tendency of the opponents of opinion in this matter. I don't think it's worth the debate that both the Council of State and the representative of the Central Party are beginning to take up the fact that a very long planned annual demonstration to increase the attention on fur farming and animal welfare problems there, unfortunately ended the day after the terror in Paris. Of course it didn't have any connection. Starting to deal with it as a way of stigmatizing the opponents – that they are thus less concerned with human dignity – I don't think the debate is worth it. These are people who are concerned with animal welfare. I know farmers who are busy having their fur bred, and I know city people. Many of these meet in the streets every year to tell Stortinget that enough is enough now, and that it is time to complete a business we know does not belong in Norway with the animal welfare law we have today. This is the majority of the population if you start looking at the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1760	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1774	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1781	The issue we are discussing here today – the position of the Business Committee on National Soil Protection Strategy – shows a strong willingness to strengthen soil protection in Norway. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a constructive and good process in the work that has been carried out. It is an overall committee that is behind this position. The Economic and Social Committee has agreed that the annual target for the restocking of cultivated land should be set at a maximum of 4000 deches by 2020. By comparison, today's goal, which the government has proposed to continue, is 6,000 deches. Good cooperation with local authorities is a very important prerequisite for achieving this objective. This assumption is reflected in the present opinion of the Committee. On 8 April 2014, the Commission adopted the following request decisions: Inner. 149 S for 2013–2014: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate proposals for the European Council on soil protection strategy.’ This review, which took place last year in April, points to a number of possible measures that should be considered to strengthen soil protection, such as: national guidelines, land-replacement funds, soil mapping, new land-disposal and food-recovery targets and own protection homes in the soil law. Particular attention was paid to positive instruments. It is this order that is now being submitted after examination by the Committee. The Committee stresses that cultivated and arable land is an important national resource and there is a limited resource. The process of formation of good food soil takes a long time, and the degradation of food soil is essentially an irreversible process. The Committee therefore considers that soil protection is of great importance to Norway. We will increase Norwegian food production and reach the targets set through the treatment of Meldning. St. 9 for 2011–2012 on the increase of food production by 1 pst. per year, we have to fence around the food earth. The Committee considers that regional and national spatial planning needs to be strengthened. All levels of government are responsible for maintaining cultivated land. Local politicians, such as local planning authorities, must continue to contribute to a reduction in the re-disposal of cultivated land. Planing authorities will often accept the re-disposal of cultivated or arable land in order to implement the requested measures in the case of business start-ups and residential development. We want to raise awareness among local politicians about soil protection, and measures to increase competence. Soil protection is an important consideration to be taken into account in regional and municipal planning. The area re-disposaled under the Law on Planning and Building has remained stable for the last ten years, while the area re-disposaled under the Law on Earth has been reduced. ==References== half of the current re-disposal of cultivated land has been made available for housing, recreational housing and commercial activities. Of the redispatched areas, 26 were pst. redisposed to traffic areas, 34 pst. for residential/recreational purposes, 15 p.m. for industrial and industrial use and 25 pst. for other purposes. The Committee is of the opinion that this shows that there needs to be a clearer focus on reducing the re-disposal of cultivated land under the Law on Planning and Building. The Committee also stresses the need for a more restrictive approach from the planning authority with regard to the construction of dwellings, recreational dwellings and buildings on cultivated and arable land. The Committee is pleased that the government will review how soil protection and other considerations are addressed in the concept selection process, in particular in the field of transport. We believe that soil protection must be given higher priority in these investigations. This is an important strategic document where you can often choose between trajectories that build food soils, or trajectories that protect food soils. The government must promote soil protection as an important factor in these processes. I refer to the unanimous vote by the Committee and the committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1805	This is a happy day in Stortinget. We believe that this is actually one of the most important things we deal with this autumn. I hope the rest also mean the same thing. Having enough and sufficient space to grow future food for the future of the North and others is a big challenge for us. In fact, Norway has very little food soil to take off. Very little of our country is covered with food, and we need to use almost every stain to produce enough food for both the current population and future generations. That is why I have to state that I think it is a real piece of political work that Mr Pál Farstad has done. I also have to pay tribute and express joy to all the parties in the Storting, who seem to join this strategy. That's good. The representatives Foss and Ørsal Johansen from the government parties believe I have also done a good job in this work. It deserves all manner of honor. In this way, I believe that we are actually facing a political shift in line by the fact that the Stortinget has so clearly assembled to say – despite the fact that we have a government that has recommended something else – that we must have a higher level of ambition in terms of taking care of our food soil. That is why I am pleased that together, as the rapporteur also pointed out, we clearly show that the ambitions are to be high, and we are going to go up. In my opinion, we also make it very clear that politics is useful. The government of Bondevik, it was well, set in its time the previous goal, which was on a halve of the redistribution of the food soil. Even though we couldn't do it within the time frame set, we're there today. We have to be happy about that. But we don't have much time, and we have little soil. Therefore, it is important that the Storting does not do as recommended by the Council of State – to stop at the goal that we have today of 6,000 decare in redispatch, but that we extend to 4,000 decare. And as the rapporteur quite rightly said, and as there may be reason to clarify in the debate: a maximum of 4000 dean. It will require a lot of people, and the job is not done with the political work that is now done. This will require, as the rapporteur was also concerned, massive efforts from both state, regional and, in particular, local authorities. That is why I am very pleased that, in the points of action that have been proposed – and it is also very necessary and important in my opinion to do so since the government and the Council of State did not want to go into this with a higher level of ambition – it is precisely in terms of decision-making to the government what we want to do. It is not least important to do so with deadlines, as it is also outlined in some of the points. One of the points I want to make now is first and foremost the effort that must be made towards the local decision-makers who are in these kinds of balances on a daily basis – whether to build roads, residential areas and other good purposes that you want to run locally, and where you stand and collide with the need for the disposal of food soil. The implementation of positive instruments, including those against local politicians, will be particularly important. One thing is to have good competence and to put in place measures that help local politicians to understand the significance of this, and to emphasise it to a greater extent than today – I think that helps local politicians, but also regional politicians, and not least central politicians. However, in addition to a schooling and a package of measures outlined in the proposals, it is necessary to take an active approach and see if there are any positive instruments we can help with when faced with difficult local elections. There has to be something more than a soil protection price, and in that way I'm meeting the government's work in this area, and I hope they have full implementation power on it – full-blown – so that we can see that there are just opportunities to make choices other than what you would traditionally do, for example. by means of positive instruments, economic rewards, yes, which make it easier to make the right choices. This will be an important platform for work to take care of future food soils.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1822	Arguing governments have had the aim of limiting the re-disposal of cultivated land. A target of halving the annual re-disposal of major soil resources by 2010 was formulated in St.meld. 21 for 2004–2005. The extent of land recirculation has shown a declining trend in recent years. In 2013, redispatch was the lowest since registration started in 1976. Over the period 1994–2014, the annual re-disposal was on average approx. 11 500 covers land. The Bondevik II government launched in 2004 the so-called halving target for the re-disposal of cultivated land. It appears that the definition of this objective, national signals and a public debate on soil protection have produced results. An overall committee proposes a re-disposal target of 4000 decaries per year, which will be demanding for municipalities. The largest areas of pressure and growth are where we have the best soil. The combination of the fact that many cities and agglomerations are surrounded by cultivated land and that a desire for the most compact development is leading to the difficulty of finding new areas without arable land. Only in the Oslo region is the population expected to increase by 350,000 by 2030. Today's government has an ambitious and offensive transport policy with large road and rail development plans. This also requires areas. Today's government has adopted new national expectations for regional and municipal planning, where soil protection is an important consideration for municipal and regional planning. State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport plans will also be followed up. The population has a special responsibility for communicating national policies to the municipalities, but there are different practices on how this is followed up. Today’s government will contribute to a clear dissemination of land policy and soil protection objectives and measures. It will also clarify how agricultural authorities can participate in municipal and regional planning processes in order to ensure that soil protection concerns are taken into account. Whole planning across municipal boundaries, which sees larger areas in context, is important in order to achieve more coordinated and comprehensive land and transport planning in accordance with national needs and state planning guidelines. Larger cities and agglomerations extend far beyond the individual municipality. In the case of community mergers, this work could be simplified and improved. A Joint Committee agrees that, in a long-term perspective, it is important to keep arable land as a national and non-renewable resource. Good guidance from county officials, good cooperation with county councils, good and involved planning processes and the build-up of skills of local politicians are important. For today's government, it is important that municipalities continue to have and take responsibility for soil protection, and that it remains a local political responsibility to dispose of the land in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1839	I would like to thank the rapporteur on the matter first of all for a very good job. He has, among other things, clearly the art of bringing together an entire committee to agree on something that may initially not have been fully agreed upon. He was able to do so because of good cooperation and a way to emerge that creates trust in the Committee. I would also like to thank the rest of the Committee for a very good and productive cooperation during this process. As the rapporteur was involved, and as the representative Foss was involved, this is an important matter. It's important because food soil is what we have to live with, that's where we grow our food. Therefore, it is also important to take care of it. It is good that we have come so far that we have managed to halve the disposal of food from the period 1994–2004, and that we have now come down to a level that is actually starting to be good. I understand that the government was skeptical about going something much lower than the 6,000 dean we are now on. As the representative Foss was in charge, we face major challenges in terms of population growth in Norway. So we need to develop both infrastructure, residential areas and business, and that's how the best food soil we have actually lies around existing cities and larger agglomerations. That's why this is going to be a big challenge. I'm not going to say we can't do it, but I think it's going to be incredibly difficult. What makes it extra difficult is the responsibility of each of us as politicians here in the Stortinget and each party in the Stortinget. By that I believe that it is our job to go against our parties in our municipalities and influence them to make the right decisions, because it is actually the municipal politicians around the whole country who are responsible for planning processes. We can say that if we do not have to meet this goal, it is not the government's fault, it is the individual politician and party politician on the Grand Duchy who is ultimately to blame. But we're going to hope that we can do a good job in that way. I'm actually optimistic about that, because there's good intentions about taking care of the food soil. There are many good intentions in the soil protection strategy presented by the government, and it is also proved by the fact that some of those points have been repeated by the Committee. So I think we're going to be reasonably optimistic, and I think we're going to be able to achieve such a goal. Then we're going to have to trust that we, as big-time politicians, are doing our job, that the government is doing its job, and that the local politicians are doing their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1850	Thank you very much, Mr Pål Farstad, for a good job. Yes, this is an important and historic day because the decision that we are going to make is important, but also this matter that we are now working on is important. This committee has been working on it for already two years, from a proposal from the Left was promoted at Christmas times in 2013, and when an interpellation was also made by the undersigned. It was the individual things around the country that made the commitment come into this hall. There was IKEA in West Town and the construction of good cultivated land, there was Trondheim and the use of cultivated land there, and there were other things that came up. The soil protection strategy from the government that we got to Stortinget in ours, with a re-disposal target of 6,000 dekar, I have referred to as a rear-facing target, because when we are at a redisposal in 2014 of approx. 5,050, I feel that it's a little bit visionary to get a lower ambition. Yeah, we're going to have population growth, which somebody's been up to. Yeah, we're gonna build homes. Yeah, we're going to develop business. And yes, we're going to build infrastructure. But it's the best soil that's under the greatest pressure, and that's why it's important that we just set ambitious goals with good tools to follow this goal. Then we'll have to build smarter, then we'll have to have a fortress. Then we've said that we should have a fortress around nodes, among other things, but this isn't black-and-white. It's not like we're going to build down the best food earth if it's around the railway, at least not in a simple way. Then we're going to build higher, and what the committee also says is that we're going to have restrictive housing, leisure construction and industrial development on cultivated land. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that says so clearly that soil protection interests are going into the process in the past in terms of concept selection investigations, so that early enough in the process you can put away the projects that will take too much cultivated land. It's a clear signal from the committee. It will be exciting to see what measures the government will take in 2016, as the Stortinget asks for today, in this area. In 2016, we are asking for something to be done about this with new cultivation, we are going to increase new cultivation, and we are going to propose this. I want to challenge the Council of State that there is new cultivation, but I also think that digging can be included in this, because I think the mining problem is also important to look at, not just the new cultivation. It's out there in the population a lot of commitment to the soil protection business. Seven out of ten say they won't build down. It was in 2008. If we look at 2011, we have received a message from 86 pst through AgriAnalysis. by the population that it is very important or quite important to protect our food soil. We must take that with us, and so must our local politicians. I am pleased that the committee unanimously says that it is still the municipalities that have and will take responsibility for soil protection and possible redisposal in the different municipalities. I do not share the view of the representative Ingunn Foss, as I also know that the Council of State has mentioned earlier in this Chamber, that by bringing together a municipality, it is easier to take care of the food soil. Then I have said it from this pulpit – there is a difference. I don't think it's the easiest way to take care of the food soil, I think there's other things than community aggregation that make us take care of food soil. This case and the goals we have now set will require a lot of many, and that job will start now. It's a lot of us who have to stand in – and are going to stand in – and I think that the signal we're sending from the Stortinget today is that there's an overall committee that's set up that there's a job to be done, that it's going to require a lot of many, and that it's the one we're shoulder to shoulder about through a coagulation process. Then the hope must be that there are total municipal governments and total county councils that will now stand up for the soil protection case. It should also be our challenge to state politicians and municipal politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1876	In this matter, I believe that the Committee has done a good job that will affect the years ahead. Food soil is a scarce resource, we'll take care of it. It's about preparedness, it's about our ability to increase food production and secure food for future generations. Over the last few years, there has been an increasing awareness of the theme of food soil. It's no longer just a peasant thing. It's not a peasant matter at all, it's a matter that gradually engages more and more. Under the previous government there was a positive development, and one achieved the goal that was set. Now we're concerned that the effort should continue. The government's line was to present a passive target. The centre party was involved in the negotiations that we wanted to have a target of reduced degradation to 3000 dean by 2020, with a gradual decommissioning. When an overall committee could go in for 4000 deches by 2020 with a gradual dwindling, we are very pleased with that. But there should be no doubt that we're working from a zero vision in terms of soil protection. This doesn't have to and won't be very complicated, because only with the law of planning and building and making sense of it will it be possible to achieve this goal. But it's clear that then it's the end of the time when a builds furniture sales on cultivated land to become popular in a campaign. We have to cut that out. Transport modes must also take greater account of food soils earlier in the planning phases. We also have many other interests that meet, and I have no doubt that for future generations food is far more important than pottery. I am also very pleased that the Committee in its position has put the remedial measures and re-cultivation a little further down on its list – that the most important thing we can do is take care of the food soil. And in those cases where we have to, remedial action will have an impact. As far as local democracy is concerned, it is a challenge. I believe it is local democracy that must lead this work and go ahead. But it is not part of local democracy to destroy the resource base for future generations. I am also very pleased that one has announced positive measures to reduce the degradation of food soil and also shows that the Centre Party has invested 50 million in its alternative budget. kr for the fulfilment of the soil protection strategy. Let me then arrest the representative Ørsal Johansen a little. He said that the best food earth is around the big cities. But the truth is, the big cities have been laid there as the best food earth is. So here it's right that it's urban development that takes into account the resource that in its time made it established where it was. As far as the Greens' proposals are concerned, I think that is right, but we are not going to vote in favour, among other things. because I am highly uncertain about their proposal No. 2 will be something stronger than what the Committee has put in. In addition, we have had a good political process in the committee. Everyone has given a little, and then I find it most correct that the centre party fully supports it as one that has agreed. And the Central Party shall be vigilant to ensure that the soil protection strategy is met and that this objective can be achieved gradually by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1897	It is very gratifying that there is now a broad consensus on some important principles, but as in other of these matters where there has been a consensus on important principles, the practice is going to show whether it actually works. Our food soil is a scarce national resource, as several have said. Therefore, unlike government parties, SV has been sceptical about delegating more power to re-dispose food soil to local level. The representative Ørsal Johansen was up here and made an article that shows why. He says that if you have some national objectives and the parties nationally have some principles to protect food soil, it's not exactly certain that it's taken into account locally. If you actually realize that this is a scarce national resource, you have to protect it at national level in such a way as to safeguard it. Yes, I appreciate the consensus today, but I'm probably more insecure. I'm on the Municipal and Management Committee. At least there's a government council that really signals that you're going to delegate more and more of these kinds of decisions locally. This means that the risk of redisposal is increasing because you know that the local pressure is very high. It is not funny to sit in a municipal government or a building council, as I have done, and say no to the expansion of cultivated land. Then you get the blame that nothing happens. It is not funny when you are a local politician, especially when the municipalities do not have the money at their disposal to ensure development or make good regulatory plans that can take care of this. Another problem is that municipalities today have far too little resources to make good, comprehensive regulatory plans in order to be able to expand in non-cultivated areas. In the SV's view, soil protection shall only give way to the railway. The railway has to go straight ahead, that's how it wants to expand. It also has to go between the cities that were mentioned here, which have arisen because there is good food soil there. That's why they came. This makes it particularly difficult to see that, together with centralisation, there is a need to expand new areas both for housing and industry. Then there is also the objective of taking the increased transport needs with public transport, corridors or bicycles. It suggests that you have a huge local challenge in many places to make all of these things fit together. On the cars there is a steering wheel so it is possible to swing, but the train has to move straight ahead. It is incredibly important that, for both climate and transport reasons, we develop the railways for both passenger and freight traffic. It has to come forward, and then the soil protection has to give way. On that point, we believe that the Greens' Greens' Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's proposal No. 2 is absolutely necessary. You have a point in proposal No. 2 which is that if you re-disposal food, you have to replace it. It is absolutely necessary to enter into such a strategy as a commitment. It's under 2 pst. of the arable land not cultivated in Norway, which is in a climate suitable for cereals. Much of the railway to be developed is being built on the earth that is suitable for grain, because it is also where these cities are located. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to have a commitment to use the area that is now plotted and can be used for grain, but which is very scarce. Most of the area that is uncultivated today may be suitable for grass production. It must also be exploited. SV will vote in favour of Greens' proposal No. 2 and can't see there's any contradiction in it. On the contrary, it is a very good proposal. We are also considering proposal No. 1, but it's a little bit difficult to define a zero vision for re-disposal when you're a climate party that wants to expand the railway, and it has to go over cultivated land, it's not going to come from. That is why I await the Greens' explanation of how this point should be understood. Otherwise, we will also vote in favour of the proposals for decisions in the vote, but we would probably have wished that the wording had been such that it had been'maximum', because now it seems as if it is a goal to build down 4,000 dean. I guess that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1918	I hope I will explain the Greens' proposals in my article. But I want to start by thanking the government for the soil protection strategy and congratulating the nutrition committee on raising the ambitions for food conservation in Norway and for more good measures in the position. As the Greens see it, it's losing 6,000 decaves of food every year barely for a vision to calculate. Here are the food soils that could have been largely saved by realising the projects in other ways, perhaps with a different price tag, better regulation or more long-term planning. But we see the historical reasons why the level of ambition is the way it is. We are also pleased that the work has worked since the Bondevik II administration, and that we are now losing food soil more slowly than before. Now the Storting is increasing the ambitions even more, and that's very good. However, the attitude of the nutrition committee means that the Storting accepts that 4,000 new targets of food soils are eaten every year bit by bit, even if alternatives are usually available. We believe that a vision is a goal one sits down and chooses measures to reach. A vision is something that a person is reaching for, which says wherever we want, and something that is important to us. Cultivated soil is not open areas waiting to be exploited – they are in use, it is our food tray. The Green Party has therefore proposed to this issue that instead of limiting the vision to 4000 deches, we ask the Storting and the Government to set a zero vision for the restocking of cultivated land for purposes other than food production. The zero vision should underpin the soil protection strategy, we suggest. It shall be a clear message to all, both the municipalities, the Ministry of Local Affairs, which lays down the technical regulations, and the Ministry of Transport, that the Stortinget will stop the loss of food soil. We think a zero vision will also raise both the status of the food earth in the population and the knowledge of how scarce this resource is. It will make it easier for local people to find support for the conservation of the food soil, even in the urban regions, where the pressure on the food soil is greatest. Food security is a state and even an international global responsibility. That is why we have a food minister, and we have an agricultural department. The Greens therefore also propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to establish national soil protection areas for the most fertile food soil, where cereals, potatoes and vegetables can be grown. This is by model from Switzerland, which has far less space than us, and which has found good regimes to balance soil protection against other societal considerations. In soil protection areas – as we suggest – there is absolute protection of food soils. Any exemptions from the protection may only be granted by the Directorate of Agriculture and according to strict criteria on which the social benefits are particularly high, and there are evidence that there are no alternative ways of implementing the project. We also propose that a re-disposal of food land in such areas oblige the builder to replace the land. Finally, I would like to say that I am a little concerned about the government's attitudes to the management of scarce resources in general and to food soils in particular. Not only do they have an ideological goal of limiting the County's objections to issues such as soil protection. In the draft objective of the new national transport plan, the Ministry of Transport proposes to take soil protection entirely out of the target document. In addition, the municipal minister was out in August and said that ‘the municipalities themselves know best in their areas’ when defending reduced emphasis on soil protection. It testifies to a poor understanding of why food soil is being built up, namely that it is being broken down and divided by different parties and varying majority, and very often with very good intentions and considerations. Population growth in Norway takes place where the best food soil is found. Housing should be simplified – we agree – and it should be done by making it easier to densify and build in the height of existing buildings and to build in hilly terrain, not by making it easier to build down the food or other virgin land such as green areas. I am addressing both proposals from the Greens. I should have liked to work with them with the committee, but in case of a misunderstanding, we only came in with one representative this time, and therefore have to deliver them as solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1940	The representative of Une Aina Bastholm has promoted the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1943	Redisposal of cultivated land has shown a declining trend in recent years, and was the lowest in 2013 since registration started in 1976. In 2013, the re-disposal of cultivated land was for the first time less than 6000 deer, which was repeated in 2014. The re-disposal of cultivated land was highest in the late 1980s, in the late 1980s, in the Labour Party government in the 1990s, and in the early 2000s during the Bondevik II government. The Bondevik II government launched in 2004 the so-called halving target for the re-disposal of cultivated land, and in the years 2004–2013, i.e. the years following the setting of the halving target, an average of 7,600 decares were re-disposaled annually. The assessment made by the government is that it is possible to continue the annual re-disposal target of 6 000 deches of cultivated land, but that this will be an ambitious target. An annual redisposal of 4000 deches, as requested by the Committee, is demanding on the basis of forecasts of continued population growth and strong growth in transport. In particular, this government has increased the budgets for investment in road and rail, which will also increase the pressure on land. We have cooperated with KS in the work on the soil protection strategy, and we want to continue this cooperation. It's not like local politicians want to build up food land and cultivated land, but in many places you've come to a point where there's not much else to build on. The municipalities have a lot of concerns about planning, and the law of the landmarks, the law of culture and the law of the natural diversity has put an end to building on land that could have been an alternative to cultivated land. This is a cross of thought. The fight for land is particularly great around the larger cities, for example in the Oslo area. Here there are so many considerations to take for the municipalities that it is almost impossible to find areas for development that do not conflict with one or more of these considerations of protection. In addition, consideration will be given, inter alia, to: open air areas, other environmental values and flood and evacuation hazard areas. At the same time, it's right here that the growth is larger. However, some municipalities have shown that this is possible. The municipality of Drammen is probably one of the best examples in Norway of how to continue with quality. They've been able to build it up and transform former food and industrial areas, so that most people experience it as an improvement in the environment and not a deterioration. Also, a municipality that Ullensaker has put the emphasis on continuing in the center of Jessheim instead of letting the city float on the surrounding cultivated land. Bjørvika in Oslo is probably an example of building with a very high density, at least on a Norwegian scale. The builders will often build in height since there is a market for that type of construction. The problem may be to make it fit into the environment and without excessive conflicts with other interests. In larger municipalities it will be possible to build a larger and better professional environment. In some municipalities it will also be possible to assess larger areas as a whole and there will be several areas available for development. This is particularly true in press areas. Just by driving E6 from Oslo to Eidsvoll, we pass six municipalities. We then drive through Rome, one of the areas with the strongest population growth. I think it's demanding to coordinate planning in this area with so many small municipalities. The experience of planning cooperation in Oslo and Akershus also shows that it is difficult for many municipalities to agree on a regional plan, although they soon seem to be aiming at it. Otherwise, both Eastfold and Rogaland have managed to make a regional spatial plan, so it's not impossible. I would also like to add that in the last few years the new cultivation has been quite extensive, and the permitted new cultivation area went up from 14,500 deer in 2013 to 18,500 deer in 2014. Accordingly, the area allowed for newly cultivated in 2014 was more than three times the size of the area re-disposaled in 2014. Norway is No. 87 of 164 countries, i.e. the middle of the tree, on a list of agricultural land per capita, according to FAO statistics. Norway has more agricultural land per capita than, for example, important countries for agriculture such as China, India, New Zealand, Germany and the United Kingdom, and FAO statistics also show that Norway is not very different from several countries we can compare with. In fact, several large agricultural countries have less land per capita than Norway. This government wants to take care of good food, but also to facilitate social development. That's this balance we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1967	The government writes in its political platform: ‘The ability of the State to review local public-elected assemblies must be limited’.» An overall committee refers to the fact that individual cases should or should be sent to the State for an opinion, and the State will then be able to give its opinion on or appeal against them. So we see that an overall committee is overrun by the government in terms of both disposal targets and instruments, for example. the right of objection. What does the Council of State think about being detailed in this way by Stortinget, against its point of view? And will we be able to get a thorough treatment/follow-up to both the goals you have set, and the initiation actions and investigations that Stortinget has pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1979	I expect that there is no target for Stortinget that we will get as many objections as possible. The goal must be to find good solutions. What has happened after this government took over is that the number of objections sent to the Ministry of Local Affairs has been greatly reduced, not least because solutions are found locally. The state enters into these planning processes earlier, and questions can be clarified, for example: related to soil protection at an earlier date. It's a much more efficient way of working. There is also a much better way to work for all those involved in these kinds of cases, because there are a lot of people involved. I believe that the most important thing we can do is make sure that these issues find their solution locally, and that the county is early in the process to take into account the soil protection issues that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1986	One heard from Morten Ørsal Johansen that he expressed great scepticism in order to achieve the goal that he himself has been pursuing, that the responsibility for this would lie with both the municipalities and the Stortinget, and that the government would not blame it if the objectives were not achieved. I believe that the government is also responsible for implementing what Stortinget has adopted. Then my question is, does the Council of State have faith in the goals set by the Stortinge here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e1993	Of course, we have to work to achieve the goals that are set. What we know from the previous round, when you halved the number – down to 6,000 – is that it took quite a number of years, more specifically nine, if I've calculated correctly, before reaching this goal. I believe that we should work to reach it, but that it becomes demanding is not to stick under the chair. It's about being a society where we're more, we're going to have more homes, we're going to have more jobs – many of these require a building to have these jobs in – and we're going to build roads and railways and get an efficient society that way. These are also conditions that can, of course, affect soil protection. But we're going to work as hard as we can to take into account soil protection and build down as little as possible, in line with what the Storting wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2000	Now, having a total mass, it looks like, set up a different measure of soil protection than the government has had. The Council of State now says in the answer that the goal cannot be as many objections as possible. No, it's not a goal to have as many objections as possible. But when the goal is to build smaller food soils, and to stop the degradation of the food soil, you have to do something to get it done, because it's not going to go by itself. That's the way food soil is built up piece by bit, as the Green Party's representative said quite correctly, and that each case can be nice enough or small enough, but that's the sum that's going to be crazy. The question then is: does the Council of State agree that the objective of building smaller food soils is more important than the objective of least objectivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2005	I believe it is a goal both to have objections and to build up a little food soil, and I think you work well with these things locally. That's a prerequisite for doing both of these things, which I was talking about earlier. So it's like this government put forward a 6 000-decker target, and that's because we're seeing what challenges we're facing in the future. I also remember that the government in which Andersen's party was represented assessed this issue in the context of the 2011-2012 agricultural notification, i.e. a few years ago, and that government also chose to propose to continue 6,000 dean, and that is because it is seen that it is demanding to reach it. Now it's the 4,000-decker target, and then we're going to focus on it, of course, but I don't want to lead anyone behind the light and claim that it's not going to be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2012	It'll probably be more demanding if the food soil is built up and gone, than it's going to stop the degradation. That's what's going to be a huge situation for Norway, if we build too much of the food soil, especially of the high-productive soil. I hear from the Council of State that she is not particularly pleased with this, and when she also compares the objectives of maintaining a scarce national resource that is almost impossible to replace, with the number of objections, I am even more concerned – that this should be comparable sizes. It is a reality that many of the objectives set by the government in this area, namely to leave more and more of this to the individual local government, will mean that these objectives are not met. Does the Council see the need to adjust its strategy and measures in a number of other areas affecting and regulating this field when these objectives are now set by a unanimous increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2019	We're going to follow up what's being adopted here now, but I have to say that I think the post of Andersen's representative is a mistrust of local politicians. I think that's basically no reason, because most local politicians are doing the best they can for their local environment. So we know that in some parts of the country they are facing major challenges because in this room a cultural memory law has also been passed, you have natural diversity laws, and you have many other limitations on other types of land, and finally you are faced with quite demanding issues. But I want to refute that I am not happy with this. I think it is good that the Storting has gathered around a goal that is behind all the parties. At the same time, it's important to be realistic, and that's why I say this is going to be demanding – and I've said it – and of course we're going to do what we can to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2027	It's a very exciting challenge we're going through – a development that we've already been through for a while – with population growth in cities and, at the same time, taking care of the food world. The best food soil is where people have traditionally settled initially. I'm sure that if we get architectural environments, urban planners, and do a good job in the municipalities of both knowledge and commitment, we're going to get to this. I'm sure the food minister has the intentions in place. Then I'm a little more uncertain about the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Municipalities because of the statements that have been made. Because of that, I could imagine asking the Minister for Food what she thinks about the Greens' proposal to take inspiration from Switzerland, which has extracted the best food soil in its own soil protection areas that receive national protection. This will also affect the decision-making processes in other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2034	I believe that there will be a bonding that we do not know the consequences of, because in some municipalities you are in a situation where it is very little to expand. As I was in the past, there are laws of culture, culture, and natural diversity. In addition, account has been taken of open air areas, other environmental values, flood and gliding hazards, and, last but not least, so many areas have been protected and there are so many provisions to exempt the area that there are very few possibilities to expand. It is also the case that this government has a very ambitious development in terms of both road and rail, and I believe that, as far as the last point is concerned, the Green Party is for us to have an expansion of public transport. Then it's like sometimes you actually have to build up some food soil. Even if you don't like it, that's the consequence. The alternative is that you don't get that kind of expansion. So sometimes you have to choose between plague and cholera in order to achieve good social development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2041	Will the Minister of Agriculture, by the end of the year, ensure that there is a circular to the country's county councillors in which they are briefed on the new soil protection objectives of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2046	Now, of course, we're going to sit down and go through all the decisions and proposals that have come to this matter, and then we're going to decide after that how we're going to follow it up. It's not unnatural that we view it as one of the instruments. What is certain is that the cooperation that has now started with KS becomes important in the further work. For example, it has been said here that there is a desire to train local politicians, to have more contact with local authorities in this respect. So this is absolutely something that we want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2051	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2056	There have been many happy and good posts here today, but I notice that the dividing lines and the joy – and not least the belief that we can do this – go between the government party and all the other parties on the Stortinget. This matter reflects in many ways the great difference that exists between the very government party and the bulk of the agricultural policy. I would like to give all possible commendation to the case spokesman for having achieved a broad and good compromise that will be agreed here later today. Under 3 pst. of the total area in Norway is cultivated land. If we are to achieve the goal of increasing food production in Norwegian feed resources across the country, we will have to take care of the most possible food soil. It's especially when the Storting goes as detailed to work as one does here. The soil protection target is changed from 6000 to 4000 deches at maximum annual rates, and there are eight specific points in addition. But after hearing the comments of the Progress Party's representative and the Minister for Agriculture's comments, I am overconfident about the importance of just concrete proposals. I am very pleased that the Storting is so clear to the government's passive goal and for an ambitious annual goal. In order to achieve these goals, a cluster of clusters underlines the need for good cooperation with local authorities, which many people have pointed out here. The Economic and Social Committee drew attention to the need for a particular positive instrument when, on 8 April 2014, it issued a call for the government to develop a soil protection strategy and to present it to the Stortinget. It is difficult to see that this is fulfilled in the strategy presented. Thus, a mass of magnification is going to re-enforce the requirement for a positive instrument – this time in a separate Romantic decision. I would also like to point out both the reporting obligation, the schooling programme and the distribution of the county council's role as important and correct proposals, as well as the proposal for legislative proposals to ensure that land laws apply to restocked cultivated land until the cultivated land is actually built up. I will also finally show that the government is required to come back to the Stortinget with proposals to increase innovation, and I take with me the proposal from the Christian People's Party that there must also be digging. We have a bad time and little land to lose. There is a happy day in the Stortinget today – at least if one is not Minister of Agriculture and does not want ambitious objectives and measures for soil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2075	The Labour Party, through its programme and its agricultural policy platform, has been very clear that we need strong soil protection. The food soil is a limited resource, and if we're going to increase food production by about 1 pst, as the population changes, which we're busy with, we have to take care of as much food as possible. So soil protection is very important. Under the Stoltenberg Government, a number of measures were taken to strengthen soil protection, including: by tightening the objection practice and entering NTP soil protection. We see that measures work, as the representative of Storberget was in it, and then it is with great wonder that a reader of the government's proposal for this proposition, with a goal of only 6,000 dean. Today, we see off the record that an overall committee is completely overrun by the government in this matter. It is very good that there is a total mass that gathers around such an ambitious goal – at 4000 dekar – in such an important matter. The agreement that has been reached is very similar to what was the starting point of the Workers' Party. Not only have we agreed on the goal, but we have pointed to a number of measures that either ask the government to implement or correct. These are positive instruments, which one has been involved in here, such as schooling in the municipalities, the role of the county council and the county council, etc. As I said, it's an ambitious goal. I expect that, even if the government does not share the view of the Storting, one will take the matter seriously, and one will get settled and point to the things that the Storting here asks for. So I'm looking forward to those investigations and those implementations coming back to the Storting in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2086	I think it might be time to remind, in particular, the Labour Party that, as the rapporteur said, it is actually the local politicians who are responsible here, and perhaps you should talk to their own local politicians to achieve the goal. If I look at my own state, it's not exactly working party municipalities that are characterized by little redispatch. But I'm proud that we have a municipal minister who actually understands it. The working party and the opposition, for the rest, should probably go in and look at what actually works. We've got the redisposal down. We have also reduced the number of objections and the number of cases in which the objections are supported. Better it can't be illustrated that you have to bring local democracy to your mind here. When I hear Karin Andersen from SV – and also the Greens – the Greens, who are hanging on to it, it is a mistrust of local democracy. It is not surprising that the overarching of local democracy was perhaps one of the things that created the most dissipation while the red-greens were in position. And especially when I've listened to Karin Andersen today, I understand very well that there was such an abdication. It's almost as if you thought it was an end in itself to having a conflict with local democracy – especially when you look at the results that this government has actually achieved. We have, as I said, got the re-disposal down quite sharply. I think it is quite phenomenal of a representative from Hedmark to stand here and say that one should only be able to be re-disposed to the railway. So are we going to build roads that stand on stakes between the elevations in Hedmark, and not hit a single dense place? I have to draw Karin Andersen's attention to the fact that there is actually no railway in large parts of the county. Is it that you want to put down most of Hedmark – and that you don't want to make progress around the whole country? I think it's almost impossible to believe that you can claim such goals. There was a lot of discussion in the committee, and the rapporteur did a very good job of reaching an agreement about such an ambitious goal as 4,000 dean. It is very ambitious, and it balances quite well the relationship between the development of the big society and the central interests around the future production basis for food. But we cannot become completely unrealistic and stop developments in large parts of the country – because if anyone here on the Grand Duchy has a very unrealistic perspective on the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2099	I have to say that I react to the representative Heggø's claim that I do not want to restrict the degradation of soil – of course we do. But I believe it is my duty as the Council of State to also say that this is becoming demanding. It was just to be missing that I didn't say that. I also think it is interesting that 6,000 dekars are the same as was adopted when the agricultural report from the red-green government was dealt with three years ago. That was good enough that time. At the same time, the government is now giving the most serious criticism, I have to say that I think is a little strange. We're going to adopt 4,000 dean, we're going to live well with that, and of course we're going to follow it up. I just want to point out that under this government, the number of objections has fallen, and so has the redistribution of land. It shows that the work done is actually very good. I would also like to say that what Andersen says is a distrust of the municipalities. What's interesting is that it was SV in the Ministry of the Environment that put forward today's law that says the municipalities are planning authorities. That's kind of weird. As far as innovation is concerned, I am very pleased that there is a very high rate of innovation without any tools. Of course, we're going to go in and evaluate it and look at it more closely. In the case of ditching, we have a pretty big grant standing unused in that area. Of course, we will look at both innovation and mining subsidies and come back with them later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2112	This is a settlement – or agreement – among all parties in the nutrition committee. All parties have been involved in designing this, and we agree on that. When there are then representatives on this pulpit, suggesting that the government is not taking the matter seriously, and suggesting that some of the parties who have participated in this conciliation, do not really want this goal, I become a bit irritated. We who were involved in this did it because we wanted it, because we have an engagement around soil protection, and because we want us to have a strict soil protection in Norway. Then to make any suggestions about something else I think is a bit naughty. So it is that some of the proposals that lie in the matter, some of which have been referred to as quite detailed, are detailed, and some of them we find again in the soil protection strategy that the government presented. Then it's also okay that the committee has repeated it, so that we get to focus on it, and that's what we agree on. So finally, I said that I was a little bit about not pessimistic, but that I saw that there were some challenges in achieving this goal. And that's what I mean -- it's a challenge to achieve the 4,000 dean target. That doesn't mean I'm pessimistic, but maybe a little realistic. For the challenges we have are really facing our local politicians, as I said. We cannot, as wholesalers, discharge ourselves from any responsibility to achieve this goal. We need to talk to and influence the local politicians in our parties, so that they also take this seriously, but at the same time we need to be aware that the municipalities are facing major challenges. When a large builder comes up and says that we will expand into this municipality, or in the neighbouring municipality, it is a difficult choice for the local politicians who get that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2124	If we are to achieve such ambitious goals, the Storing and the Government must also take responsibility for it. To put it as a precondition for the policy, the underlying legislation and legislation in force and to base a national strategic objective requires, of course, that the strategic objectives also be pursued in the space of action that is local. I'm accused of distrusting the local politicians. No, in no way; I just record what the local politicians have said. The farm leaf had a survey just before the county election now showing that there are local politicians, especially from the Progress Party, but also from the Right, who have a rather relaxed relationship with soil protection. Obviously, if you answer that most other considerations are more important than soil protection, you will have a basis for making those decisions locally, as you have today. I said in my post that I also understand them well, because many of them are under quite a pressure in many of these matters. And it's not like there's no crossroads in all the counties, even in my own home country -- it does. The question is whether we should allow this type of expansion to take more of our food soil in the future. And if you do that, you have to replace the area that is lost with the corresponding area, as proposed by the Greens/Greens/EFA, a proposal that SV will support. Then the railway is special, because rail has to go much more than road and other transport – no matter where it is now laying dwellings and industrial areas – straight ahead. It has much less opportunity to adjust according to such needs. I am very proud that I am part of a party that was part of the government that produced the law of the land, the law of the natural diversity and much of the law that today takes care of important national values. Similarly, we need to take care of the large national value of food, and it's difficult and complicated. This requires making difficult adjustments, but it also requires being aware that if you do not stop building a scarce national resource that you cannot replace, it is going well. That is why we want to strengthen national food protection and believe that it is necessary – not because local politicians are not good and insightful, but simply because they are in dilemmas that are difficult, and because the bit-by-bit strategy we end up with does not lead us to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2138	Now we have a debate like Norway is alone in the world about having pressure on the food soil. We are not, so the Green Party's proposal is that we learn something from countries like Switzerland, which have a lot of pressure on the food market. If there is something Switzerland is known for, it is local self-government. They have a lot of municipalities, even municipalities with 20-30 inhabitants. They have found arrangements that work, weighing the food soil up against other societal interests. So it's not distrust of the local politicians that makes us suggest that the best food soil is raised at national level. It is precisely what Ørsal Johansen's representative had to say, that it is a matter of dealing with major problems in local policy in order to ensure national food protection while at the same time having to build kindergartens, develop housing or facilitate businesses that are involved in local policy, which are the very important tasks of local politicians. There is no distrust of the municipalities that means that hospitals are not under municipal tasks, it is because these are national interests that it is appropriate to look at at at national level. And that's exactly what's the problem in this case, that the food soil is broken down and divided because you don't have a proper national protection that takes care of the whole thing. So a little final post about realism, because I think that often when you want higher visions, you get to know that it's unrealistic, but it's also about looking at what's the political space. The higher the vision, the more willing you are to look at measures to meet the visions and goals you have set. If the Storting had adopted a zero vision for food soil, I'm sure we would have accepted even less food soil degradation than we do now with a target of 4,000 deches, which is much better than what we had, but still not well enough, as the Greens see it. It's not about mistrust of the government or the municipalities, but it's about this is important food soil that we all agree that we should keep. Then it makes sense to set ambitious goals. The Greens are good at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2149	I have a few comments on things that have emerged in the debate. We set ourselves a national target, and even though the municipalities are planning authorities, the food soil is a national resource and it is also a national responsibility to contribute to its maintenance. So this is a case where a lot of statistics are used. I think it is important to hold on to the fact that this is the policy of the long lines – the policy that is being pursued today, it may take some time before we see the impact. It underlines the importance of speeding up action. So two points that the Council of State was within: transport and construction of road and rail. It is estimated that the national transport plan will require 760 deches per year during the planning period. So the council says that since you've built up so much under this government, you have to expect more. That's when I want to remind you that after three quarters of the planning period, a given three-quarters of the money is for transportation. So one is completely on the road, and therefore, in isolation, transport should not justify the need for more food soil than is already in the national transport plan. It was also pointed to the proportion of food soil per capita. Then I think it's important to realize that it's not just the number of decathans that determine how much food we're able to produce. The climate is also here. We in the north need more land per capita to produce the equivalent amount of food that it produces in countries further south of Europe. But I think this is one day when we're going to be glad that an overall committee is behind this. We have to put a little behind us what was the government's proposal – the most important thing is that the committee is standing together. I very much appreciate Mr. Örsal Johansen's commitment to the conciliation. I believe that it may also have a certain transfer value to next year, when one is finished negotiating the state budget, that one is so eager to take responsibility for what we have agreed. What is important is that the parties on the Stortinget and the organisations who were at the hearing follow up on the fact that the government is actually taking on the goal that the Stortinget is adopting today, that it is being translated into concrete policies to reduce the degradation of food soils in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2166	I think this has been a good and thorough debate, with access to temperature. It should be in such an important matter. I want to comment on a few things. Several have commented, and one has asked questions about and expressed scepticism as to whether it is possible to achieve the target of a maximum of 4000 deches redisposed by 2020. Yes, it's going to be challenging, and we're going to need local planning authorities to realize it and take on this ambitious goal that the Storting is setting today. To this end, the Committee has set out clear requirements and placed orders for follow-up on several points. That was the very point of showing how important it is to clarify some points, and some questions and some challenges. I am sure that the Council of State and the Government will take this very seriously. I didn't say that in my first post, but I also want to say that this is a joyous day, that we've put together the whole committee, and that now maybe there's an almost total expansion going on with a joint decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2175	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2181	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2189	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget on its own initiative after the Staff Regulations Committee has delivered its report so that the conditions of employment of civil servants can be treated in a comprehensive manner.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2276	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 48 representatives had voted in favour and 48 representatives had voted against the vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.15.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2285	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2290	Then we'll take the vote again. When it's so sharp, we do it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2303	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2317	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2325	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make public citizenship allowances compulsory for all those over the age of 12 who fulfil the conditions and are granted Norwegian citizenship.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2403	It is voted on first A § 8. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 76 representatives voted in favour and 17 representatives voted against the Committee's position. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.17.46]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2414	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2419	There are then 77 representatives who have voted in favour and 17 representatives who have voted against the Committee's position on Section A 8. And then it goes over A, the other parts of I and II. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2436	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2450	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2460	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2575	First of all, paragraph 17, first paragraph, point (g) of the last sentence and point (c) of the first paragraph of paragraph 66. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2590	It shall be weighed over other parts of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2600	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2610	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2657	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to halve the food throw in Norway by 2030.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan of measures to reduce food discards.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2697	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, from Guri Melby on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place an appropriate ban on fur production applicable from 2017. In the event of such a prohibition, the Storting requests that the Government provide for a three-year closure period for the fur-farming industry, followed by a two-year conversion period.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2723	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for the Government to promote the wholesale notification of the fur animal industry for Stortinget by the spring of 2016. The Government is asking for compensation schemes to be examined by the industry and for proposals to be made to the Government in this respect.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2756	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Une Aina Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a zero vision for the restocking of cultivated land for purposes other than food production. The zero vision shall underpin the soil protection strategy.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2773	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to classify the most fertile food soil, where cereals, potatoes and vegetables can be grown, as national soil protection areas. In soil protection areas, there is absolute protection of food soils. Any derogation from the protection may only be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of Agriculture and in accordance with the following criteria: – Re-disposal of food land is necessary for the realisation of a project of social importance. – The societal benefits of the project are demonstrable and verifiable. – The most effective land use of the project has been investigated and the assessments verified. – There is evidence that there are no alternative land uses for the project to be realised. – Any re-disposal of food soil obliges the builder to physically replace the food soil with food soil of similar quality.’» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-08.ana.ud2434e2855	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
