ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e74	Honourable co-representatives! Former Mayor of Buskerud KrF, Hans Torgersen, has passed away. He died on February 10th this year, 88 years old. Hans Torgersen was born in Obere Eiker on 30 October 1926. He took a master letter as a glass master in 1950 and started his own glass master shop in Drammen the same year. He drove it until 1989. Hans Torgersen was the first Christian People's Party representative at the Buskerendbenken in Stortinget. He was elected on a common list with the Center Party in 1977, a choice that became the best Christian People's Party had ever made until then. He was a member of the municipal and environmental protection committee. Hans Torgersen's time at Stortinget covered only one period, while his political efforts as both elected and at the organisational level included much more. Already in 1956 he became head of the Drammen KrF, and from 1974 to 1978 he was head of the Buskerud KrF. As head of state, he was also a member of the state administration. In 1959 he was elected to the City Council of Drammen, where he sat for three periods. From 1963 he was also in the presidency. He also sat in the county for two periods and was a member of the county committee. He was an honorary member of both Drammen KrF and Buskerud KrF. Buskerud is a state where there have been many local Christian People's Party politicians, but few magnificence representatives. Until 1997, in fact, Hans Torgersen was the only one who could point to such a position. Besides political work, Hans Torgersen also spent a lot of time on Christian work. The Council of Associations, the Board of Directors of Norwegian Sunday School Associations, the Board of Directors of Internal Affairs and the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Danvik Folkehögskole say something about this. Torgersen put many tracks behind him. He belonged to a generation of Christian People's Party politicians who are now in the process of disappearing. We remember Hans Torgersen for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e97	Then I'll ask the first vice president, Marit Nybakk, to take over the club.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e105	The representatives of Martin Kolberg, Jørund Rytman, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Roy Steffensen and Kent Gudmundsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates of the Hedmark County, Randi Krokstad, and for the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Gunhild Berge Stag, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e134	The President proposes that two presidents be elected for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e145	The representative of Liv Signe Navarsete will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e148	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Vegar Solhjell, Audun Lysbakken, Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative on the submission of the framework in the TISA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e153	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that she has received a request from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee concerning a hearing planned for the Committee. The Committee requests that the hearing be held on a day when the Grand Meeting is being held, i.e.: Thursday 30 April. If the hearing is to take place on that day, the provision of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that no open hearing shall be held during the Grand Meeting, except during normal Question Time, shall be waived. The President proposes that the request by the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that the Storting approve that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. As far as the President can see, there are no objections to this, and it is therefore deemed to be adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e173	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e180	As a follow-up to the decision of the Stortinge of 19 June 2014 to set up a new national institution for human rights, under the auspices of the Stortinge, I am delighted to present the unanimous position of the Presidency with proposals for law to the institution. The setting with suggestions for instructions will be considered after the law has been finalised in Stortinget. Respect for human rights is a fundamental value in our society. This has been an important prerequisite for the development of our democracy and has provided a secure framework for the development of our welfare society. It is an important State task to ensure that public bodies and representatives respect human rights and to take action to prevent others from committing human rights violations. The UN has invited Member States to establish national human rights institutions to contribute to the implementation of human rights in their own country. There is therefore also an international perspective here, in the sense that we in Norway would like to see other countries follow up on such establishments, as a number of countries have done. The proposed law and instructions of the national institution in our country lay the formal basis for an independent and strengthened national institution, based on the Paris principles of national institutions, to which the UN General Assembly has agreed. The national institution shall have as its primary task the monitoring and reporting of human rights enshrined in national law as well as in international treaties and other international law, with knowledge-based weights and broad foundations. In this, it is a responsibility to shed light on the human rights challenges we also face in our country. It may well be argued that the institution is an innovation in relation to the traditions and practices of the Grand Duchy, because, unlike the other external bodies of the Grand Duchy, the national institution for human rights is not only entrusted with control tasks in a constitutional sense. However, it must also be said that the protection of human rights is a common concern of all public authorities, and that such tasks are also entrusted to other bodies, primarily the Civil Ombudsman, through the Prevention Unit against torture and inhumane treatment. The coordination between the two institutions is therefore natural and correct. The size must have a keen look at the human rights situation in our own country. A central task of the national institution will be to monitor the position of human rights and make recommendations to the Stortinget and other authorities. The institution's annual report will provide the basis for a broad and comprehensive debate on human rights in this room, which I hope will help to raise awareness of the topic here as well as in the public at large. The overall task portfolio of the national institution shall cover the areas for which the Paris principles provide guidance. The Presidency considers that the tasks proposed by law fully respect these principles, while being appropriate measures, well adapted to the situation in our country, including: several other public actors in the field of human rights with some overlapping tasks. In this context, I would like to mention that it will be an important task for the national institution to facilitate cooperation with relevant organisations and professional communities. The Presidency proposes an organisational model for the national institution that we believe meets the Paris principles. The Presidency considers that independent, professional management of the institution is best ensured by the division of management between a board of directors responsible for professional, economic and operational activities and a director with daily responsibility for the activities of the institution. A board also gives room for management to have specific knowledge of Sami matters, which the presidency attaches to significant importance. In line with the Paris principles, the diversity perspective of the institution is proposed through an advisory panel which will be a focal point for the network of organisations and professional environments to which the institution will naturally relate. This body is proposed by the Management Board. The Director is proposed by the Stortinget on the basis of a public notice. The Presidency will facilitate as open an appointment process as possible, both as regards the Governing Board and as regards the Director. The presidency's statement also proposes that an evaluation be carried out after four years to see whether there may be a need to adjust the formal basis as well as other framework conditions. I am pleased that today we can round an important milestone, and I recommend the proposed legislative decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e208	On 19 June last year, a unanimous decision was taken to set up a new national human rights institution. Since its establishment in 2001, the National Institute for Human Rights has been associated with the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, a multidisciplinary centre of the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo. Since the principles of academic freedom and freedom of research are not considered compatible with the role of national institution, the Board of Directors of the University of Oslo has decided to put an end to the scheme. In the view of the Labour Party, there is a need for a new national human rights institution in Norway. Such an institution shall be able to contribute to coordination, overview and systematisation in this complex area. The institution should be a professional centre of gravity which can assist authorities and civil society in human rights matters, while at the same time having an active monitoring and driving role. The size has an important responsibility and role to play in ensuring the fulfilment of human rights, both by consenting to the ratification of Norway’s international obligations and by ensuring that the executive follows up society’s obligations towards individuals, minorities and other vulnerable groups. That is why, in the view of the Labour Party, it is right that the Storting undertakes to establish a new national institution for human rights and gives it a special status by placing it as a body directly under the Storting. According to the suspension, the mandate of the new national institution reflects the so-called Paris principles. This means giving the institution a broad mandate to promote and strengthen human rights in accordance with international treaties and international law, the Constitution, the Human Rights Act and other legislation. The institution shall be free to assess any matter within its area of competence. The national institution shall have the opportunity to provide guidance to individuals through information and advice on human rights, including on national and international remedies, but the institution shall not deal with individual complaints. In such cases, reference may be made to existing ombudsman arrangements, legal instruments or non-governmental organisations. The question of institutional independence has been central. The unanimous attitude of the Presidency proposes that the new national human rights institution be set up as an independent entity, subject to the Stortinget, but administratively linked to the Civil Ombudsman, thereby enabling the Ombudsman to draw alternates on the sound competence of the Ombudsman in the field of human rights and the strong professional environment there. Co-location could be well organised for possible cooperation on specific tasks and provide administrative and resource benefits. Whoever is to be in charge of the appointment of the leader and the board has also been discussed. The Presidency proposes that the Stortinge should appoint the Chairman and the Administrative Manager of the new institution, a Board of Five Members and a wide-ranging Advisory Forum of the National Centre. The Workers' Party supports the suspension of the Presidency and assumes that the Stortinget is kept informed of the institution's activities through annual reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e229	There is reason to commend the work that has been done on the matter we are dealing with today – both the work along the way and the work on the position that the presidency has put forward. The Central Party believes that the suspension of the bill takes good and necessary action to establish – or, we shall also say, in a way restore – a national human rights institution. The centre part will highlight support for the main actions taken in the framework currently being put in place. We support the establishment of the institution, the steps taken to ensure independence and integrity, and the governance mechanisms outlined. In spite of this, it is enough – as one also sees from the presidency’s position – that there is certainly reason to be a little open with regard to some of the choices made. We hardly see the whole fascination today about what the new institution is going to be like, or how it's actually going to work. When something new is built up, you have to live to some extent with the fact that the road becomes a little bit near as you walk. This is probably also true in this context. The position that the presidency has put forward is a good and qualified first step on the road. When it is said that we are today to give Norway’s national human rights institution broad powers to the sea to shape its work and to mark itself in a variety of venues, it is good. Not only shall the institution report on the position of human rights in Norway and watch over the more formal part of the political processes, but it shall also work with attitudes in society, such as: by promoting training, education and research on human rights and by organising seminars and courses and giving lectures. It will also help us to have more wide-ranging debates on human rights in this Chamber as well. The Central Party hopes that the new institution's board of directors and directors will choose a form of work that includes and strengthens the work on human rights that is already taking place around the country and is anchored in existing environments, whether organisations or institutions. I have noticed that the presidency underlines that there is no certainty as to whether the appropriations outlined for 2015 are sufficient, and that it is currently not possible to have a clear view of the economic consequences of the restoration of the national institution in the longer term. It is a quite reasonable reservation, but it also demands that the Storting should, to some extent, wake up to the existing work on human rights – in a reality where the new institution should also find its place. I will therefore be allowed a few minutes to mention some of the work that is already going on. In Nord-Trøndelag, we are well aware of the work being done at the Falstad Centre, which has the status of National Training and Documentation Centre for the Prison History of War, Human Rights and Human Rights. From Oslo, we know of the tremendous work done in Villa Grande, where the Centers for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities also run a research, documentation and dissemination centre. I also want to mention the work done by the Sami authorities and Sami organisations in this context, which is an important resource for strengthening human rights. This also applies to national minority work and other national minorities. Women, Jews, forest fins, rooms and romanists are also absolutely crucial co-players in a broad picture. I want to mention this because I think it is important to take care of the great community that the work of human rights is and must form in the future. Common to all those I have mentioned is that they have been working on human rights for a number of years. It is important that the new centre finds work models that help to strengthen existing human rights work and facilitate the survival and strengthening of other actors with strong foundations in particular environments. Just by cultivating the good work done around the country, and by finding a sensible national superstructure for the work on human rights that can strengthen the totality, I think we can achieve what is the goal: a strong, stable and lasting effort to make human rights a reality both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e250	We in the left are very happy that this institution is now in place. We think it's taken some time, but we're very pleased with the President's personal commitment to bringing this into port. I would like to express my pleasure from the Chair that we have managed to pass it on, and I believe that the commitment of the President – and also of others in the presidency – has made us reach that goal. I also agree with the speakers who have said that it is not certain that we now have the perfect design for the future. But we have a good start, and we have a good framework for developing it in the future. I also think it is absolutely right to put it under Stortinget. I have previously made many articles about ombudsman roles. It is important that we do not undermine the Ombudsman role of Storting by moving our task to others. I believe this is about something else. This is something that qualifies us to do our ombudsman role – the opportunity to raise the results of the policy we adopt here, which is about individuals. We have human rights in order to protect individual individuals from violations by the community, but also to ensure that the rights of the individual are always heard properly if the vast majority of people always get their rights wronged. One does not think of Norway as a country that often violates human rights. But in the edge zone of our society, we always find situations where we have to discuss it. That's why I'm very happy that we, for example. This week made an agreement with the government that says that children should not be in prison for more than 24 hours before child protection, such as in prison. on Trandum. There are many such periphery situations in society where we see that human rights are being challenged. Then it's our job as politicians to find good solutions for us to respect human rights and at the same time be able to pursue politics in this room. This is also important for Norway to have a greater international impact on human rights. It is clear that all the violations that the outside world can point to are weakening our foreign minister on a tour of the world when he is about to lift human rights. The fact that we have a good structure in the work on human rights in Norway, and that we are able to combat all violations of human rights also within our borders, is important for our authority as a human rights nation to be internationally respected. That's why it was very important that we put this institution in place. This is an important step forward. I think it's important that we have armsmen for this institution and for this principle also into the presidency. They're going to get all the support that might come from the Left to develop this further. Then it's important that the institution also get enough resources to be able to do its job properly. It's going to be our next challenge when the budget is going to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e263	The representative Rasmus Hansson is advertised, so he now gets the word – and then the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e266	Thank you for the prom, President. Of course, that's just the beginning! We have been carefully reminded these days that it is 75 years since Norway was exposed to a system that had despised human rights as its mental and political foundation. However, we are also reminded that in this situation Norway and the Nordic countries could not always stand up for human rights, for example. in which too many people were silent and so Jews from Norway were exported to the extermination camps in Germany. That is why I and the Green Party are very pleased that this initiative has been taken, which has turned into a very good attitude from the presidency. We thank you for taking responsibility for re-establishing an institution that is absolutely necessary for us to have here in Norway, and we support in this context essentially the grips that the setting provides. On the part of the Green Party, we believe it is a very good idea precisely because of the nature of this topic that the institution is given extensive powers to design its organisation and its work, assuming, of course, that they have enough resources to do the job. The fact that the institution is under the Storting, we see it as a good assurance that precisely the Storting will be provided with the knowledge that is needed for us to take our responsibility for respecting human rights, but also that there is an institution that is close to the forum that should be close when someone is being challenged to take this responsibility. From the Green Party, we look forward to this being an institution that informs us, but which challenges us not least, because the challenges of human rights are still great also for Norway and to a very high degree in the world that surrounds us and in which Norway must participate. We therefore look forward with great optimism to the development of this institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e277	Surprisingly, I am also very pleased with the presidency's attitude and that we are now getting that institution up and up. One of the human rights issues in Norway that I've seen leaders from other countries deal with me is our lack of independence in our national human rights institution, which is really important. We're talking about human rights violations like yes, we have them in Norway too, but they can't be so serious. But some of the human rights violations are considered to be quite serious by international standards, for example. our use of care. So let me just link three more concrete comments to the setting and the further work. Firstly, it is extremely important that this institution be able to have a broad field of cooperation against the many institutions working with human rights around Norway. It will be important for the legitimacy of the institution, and I believe it is important for the real functioning of the institution. It was stated by the mandate, but it is also very important that it is followed up by those who are going to work there. So you're going to give an annual message in Stortinget, and I'm positive to that. But here there is a risk that there will be an annual formality, a debate with little participation, where everyone will only notice what does not lead to anything significant, such as some of the fixed messages that we have in Norway from the government, are also. So maybe I'll put that on the presidency to think about -- it's not over when you decide that there's going to be an annual message, that's when it starts, if there's just a habit, or if there's something that can be used for anything. The third point relates, as many people have said here, to me, that it's not certain that that's exactly how we now decide that it should be, which is the ideal model. I see it added to an evaluation after four years, and I think that makes sense. There may be an absolute need for adjustments and improvements and even greater changes in the way we do it. The important thing now is that we've set up an institution, and that it's done a quick and good job, and I want to give credit to both the president and the presidency for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e290	It requires a small explanation to speak on a matter which is highly unanimous from the presidency. We also notice here the participants in the debate that the 17th May factor becomes dangerously high when we talk about human rights. When I take the word anyway, it is to mark a critical distance to the construction chosen when creating what is called the ‘national institution’. If you look at the setting, Document 16, you can see that you have not delimited your mandate thematically. At a time when human rights can be interpreted most of the time, this mandate can become a very broad and, not least, political mandate. At the same time, it is also seen that this institution has to decide on and apply legal standards, such as Norway is bound by by its own legislation and international treaties, and it is therefore necessary to have an opinion as to whether they are being complied with. Normally, it is its own enforcement bodies that do this with regard to Treaty law, and we have also developed a European Court of Human Rights, which is also referred to by two sentences in the vote. Everyone knows that the development of human rights is now taking place at a high pace in Europe, and that the nation states are aligning themselves with an extended legal competence for the individuals dealing directly with their affairs. If one really wanted to do something effective to promote human rights, we should rather plan down the doorsteps that exist, so that people can pursue their rights after they have tried out the national appeals and review possibilities. I would also draw attention to the other side of the mandate. In this context, it is important to seek advice on how to develop legislation, to conduct outreach activities, to have media playback, to have a driving role, which, at best, gives a very unclear role to players and, in the worst case, a political role, which in most cases is difficult to define against ordinary party political activities. I believe that this is outsourcing policy in an area where the political representatives and this room should put themselves at the centre of how we enforce our international obligations. Therefore, at a time when the concepts of rights are threatened by dilution, it will be difficult to distinguish between a driving role and a political function. However, when I do not vote against the case, it is because some of us have been in dialogue with representatives of the Presidency and strongly recommend that a board be set up, which was originally not proposed, and that it should be evaluated before the end of the first term of office, which was not originally proposed either. And then I hope that time will have worked for us to perhaps establish something else that can give citizens direct testing, for example. through an administrative court.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e305	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e319	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e333	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that seven lines of reply be given after statements by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e340	It is an important debate to which the Environment Party is inviting. The Committee's position also shows that there is a broad political consensus that all parties will contribute to the creation of an attractive and exciting swallow-bard society. I therefore assume that the representatives of the various parties themselves say something about their own policies, and I will therefore spend my time thinking about how the Workers' Party looks after tomorrow's swallowing society. The Workers' Party sees the northern areas as our main field of foreign policy. Svalbard and Longyearbyen have a national and international focus, among other things. environment, safety and preparedness in the Arctic, research and development, industrial development and knowledge. Norway is also the only country with an expanded infrastructure of 78 degrees north. It gives us a strategic advantage in the Arctic. We will further develop our swallowbard policy to ensure the development of Svalbard and Longyearbyen and to facilitate new business activities that can also ensure the settlement and activity of Svalbard in the years to come. The working party emphasises that all industrial activities, resource use and research should take place within the framework of the preservation of Svalbard's unique natural environment and cultural heritage. It is also a broad political consensus that the overall objectives of the swallowing policy are firm, inter alia. a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty and proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and the control of the Treaty. Coal has been a major pillar of the community in Longyearbyen for decades. However, coal operations have been discussed on the basis of climate policy conditions. It is also a challenge to ensure profitable operation on the basis of the low coal prices currently in place. We have recorded that this has resulted in a reduction in staffing so far with 90 employees in Great Norske, and that further crewing is expected. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure and continue the great competence of the Mining Company of Great Norske in mining and industrial activities in the north. It is important for the further development of Svalbard, but also for North Norway and the northern regions for the rest. The potential for regional industrial development and product development, technological development and other application of this competence should be further explored. The climate problem has triggered a discussion on whether to continue coal mining on Svalbard. Any ban on mining on Svalbard is an issue that will also affect the Svalbard Treaty and will trigger extensive work on uncertain outcomes. However, it is a fact that someday coal operations will end, due to the availability of coal that can be mined economically. The Workers' Party wants to see further ownership in Great Norske from a north-eastern perspective in relation to important mineral and mining developments. At the same time as ensuring coal production both in the short and long term, Great Norske is now also working to facilitate new business. It is important to signal that the Workers' Party will contribute actively, together with local forces, to create new activities on Svalbard. We have seen that since the 1990s it has been a formidable development of tourism in Svalbard, and that tourism today is of great importance to the development of society in Longyearbyen. The challenge is that several full-year jobs need to be developed. The working party wants to facilitate further investment in travel, but we want to be clear that this must be done within the framework of strict environmental requirements and environmental legislation. Svalbard is of great importance for Norwegian and international research. Research and higher education should therefore be an important part of Norwegian activities in Svalbard in the coming years. The Workers' Party is committed to Norway's leading role and is a central player in knowledge development at Svalbard. There are in addition to these many areas where Svalbard has natural prerequisites for creating new developments. In this context, I can mention research on fishing and marine resources and mineral deposits. There is already a large international presence on Svalbard in research. Norway is still the deciduous largest research nation in Svalbard, but the proportion of international research has increased considerably in recent years, and the pressure to use Svalbard as the research are increasing. It is positive, but it is also important that we ensure good coordination and structuring of the activity, so that it is a good thing for the swallowing society and for Norway. If we are to safeguard our interests, we must strengthen Norwegian knowledge activity at Svalbard. We know that the government has announced its own swallowbard message. The Labour Party is looking forward to dealing with it, and we will have another opportunity to discuss the future of the swallowing society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e372	I just want to signal from the Right that we are very happy that the committee collectively refers to the government's notified swallowing message and meets it. We could have taken the big swallowbard debate today. I feel that it may be more appropriate to take it when the message will be submitted. I would also like to signal that the proposal by the representative Rasmus Hansson, which is the starting point for this debate, seems to me to have been well taken care of by the fact that the government has announced that they will be promoting a communication. The Committee also points to many of the elements that Rasmus Hansson puts forward in his proposal, so I will not vote in favour of that proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e379	I would say a lot of that which Greece also underlined. I am also very happy that the government has notified them that they are coming with a swallowing message. I think that's important and correct, also to find alternative business strategies. Because you can be so much for or against coal you just want, but today it's not profitable what's going on on Svalbard, and it tends to be an answer that you can understand in all parties, even in those who don't understand what climate challenges are in the coal industry. Then we have to find alternative feeding routes for Svalbard. There are many opportunities for future research and communication, rescue and security for the north. Svalbard is going to be an important 'hub' in the future if we decide that there is something that Svalbard is going to develop further. Otherwise, there are also many opportunities in a tourist industry that are able to find the balance between the very fragile landscape we are going to take care of, and the amazing natural experiences that it can provide. I'm very excited about the big message coming from the government. There are many challenges to be solved, but there are also many exciting solutions that lie ahead for the swallowing community. I think we're going to do it in good cooperation with those who live on Svalbard, who want to develop both business and life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e388	The background to today's debate is that the Green Party in the context of the debate on the Svalbard budget before Christmas presented two proposals. One was that the coal operation on Svalbard was to be terminated when the current mines were driven out – a rather natural proposal, but it only received support from SV. The second proposal is what the Stortinget is about to decide today, namely that the planning of a sustainable polar future at Svalbard is now being thoroughly investigated. This proposal really got a majority before Christmas, but there were some wrong votes, so there has been a new reading today. The Greens present the same proposal today, but since the Minister of Justice announced in winter that the Ministry has started work on a new big message about Svalbard, we have adjusted the wording so that the proposal is now formulated as an order for this communication, and reads: ‘The government is asked by the government to present a plan for the development of the Svalbard community in the notified Landfill Communication, with a focus on sustainability, environmental research, renewable energy base and new economic pathways.’ I hope and believe that the other parties will support this proposal. Unfortunately, it is not natural for these questions to be dealt with by themselves in a coming swallowing report, without the Storting asking for it. We have received very many swallowing messages, even in the period when climate and coal issues have been on the agenda, and all these messages have carefully avoided dealing with this issue in a serious way. With the signals given on the request for further aid for coal production on Svalbard, it is far from obvious that the government intends to take the coal issue seriously in this communication. That is why we need this decision. More and more people realize that coal production on Svalbard is singing in the last verse. Coal is, as you know, the largest contributor to climate change, and it is therefore necessary to recall that every time Norway tries to defend Norwegian oil and gas production in particular, it is argued that it should save Europe from coal carried on with the greatest pathos. Then it is relatively interesting that the State simultaneously insists on maintaining a coal company that sells coal to the same market from Svalbard. In addition, the economy of this coal company has now become poor, and it is a pity for the company and those who work there, but that is what must and must happen in order for coal to be phased out, as the huge climate problem it is. Therefore, there is also an alarmingly bad idea, insofar as the government has actually intended to subsidise the further operation of an unprofitable coal company on Svalbard, and it is striking that the Workers' Party, which in other contexts is drawing the State pension fund's investment out of coal, believes that it is a completely different matter to subsidise unprofitable Norwegian coal production on Svalbard. In this context, it is interesting that the representative Kåre Simensen in his post here just used the phrase ‘safe coal operation both in the short and long term’. It's going to be interesting to hear the Workers' Party clarify whether they are actually going in for coal operations in the long term on Svalbard. The Green Party recalls what everyone really knows: Svalbard has a great and exciting future ahead, and the future lies in anything but coal. It's been a long time. It has been a long time since coal in the international context, in its national context, in its political context or in its professional context had any profile in the swallowing society. It is on the contrary research, international cooperation, tourism, etc. which is the international profile of Svalbard and which has long since taken over as the support, the political support, of the Norwegian swallowbard community. It is also the case that the 90 people who have lost their jobs in Great Norwegian are commuters, and it is such that average living time on Svalbard is four years, so putting excessive emphasis on coal as a carrier in the svalbard community, and putting excessive emphasis on coal as a kind of magical tool in international svalbard policy, we should now get past. We look forward to the fact that, in fact, the Storing Communication now plans in a planned and clear way the sustainable future that Svalbard must have, which it must not have for a long time, but that the Storing and the Government must take the initiative to achieve Svalbard. It requires liability and active planning. That is why we hope that people will support this proposal. I now deal with the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e415	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e431	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e438	The announcement we are now going to debate is on the 19th in a row where we are discussing the volume of exports of weapons, ammunition and defence equipment. Norway today has among the world's most stringent rules for the export of weapons. That's the way it has to be. Practicing a strict code for the export of defence equipment, where we are constantly working to avert the miscarriage of weapons, is our moral responsibility. A strict regulatory framework, with openness and wide-ranging debate through annual news reports, provides people and elected representatives with transparency and guarantees the legitimacy of the defence industry in Norway. Norway has a tradition of contributing to international control and disarmament efforts. Examples of this include: when Norway made a great effort to establish an international ban on landmines and class weapons. Norway must continue its important work along this track. It is important to have common international rules on the sale of weapons and technology. A joint committee noted that Norway should work to promote high international standards of control in relation to exports of defence equipment. The Committee asks the government to continue its work on a common standard for end-user documentation and to work towards its becoming a norm in NATO. The Committee has expectations for further development in this area and has asked the government to report back on progress in this area. Norway is dependent on a defence that may defend Norwegian territory. The last week, it has been discovered through the media that Norwegian defence has major challenges. If Norway is to have a defence with the necessary strength, we also need a national defence industry. The defence depends on having national suppliers with which they can cooperate. One must have access to suppliers who understand what the defence needs and with whom they can work closely and confidently. It is not always that the defence's mission can be met with already developed standard solutions. A national defence industry providing cooperative partners with greater operational capacity. If Norway stopped producing defence equipment, this would weaken our national security. This is the subject of a broad political agreement, and it must be based, including in the debate on the export of Norwegian defence equipment. As Norway must import some weapons, our own defence industry must also be able to export its product. The Norwegian defence industry is driven by the addition of high technological competence. Companies are internationally competitive and have niche competence. This makes industry desirable as partners in large international projects, for example. in the development of the new F-35 fighter planes. Today, the Norwegian defence industry is made up of 137 enterprises and employs about 4 800 annual works and skilled jobs throughout the country. Today, there are jobs related to the defence industry in 17 of the country's 19 counties. The total value of exports of Norwegian defence equipment sank by 6 pst. in 2013 compared to total exports in 2012. The export of A-materials fell most, where exports fell from 3.3 billion. SEK in 2012 to SEK 2,5 billion. kr in 2013. About 90 pst. exports of defence equipment to NATO countries, and to Sweden and Finland. Defence technology can also be useful in other contexts. One example is the Kongsberg Group's technology for dynamic positioning, which is currently in use both by ships in the North Sea and by cruise boats that will avoid sailing over coral reefs. Is it so completely unproblematic to have a defence industry that exports weapons? Of course, it also raises ethical questions. No one wants war. We should all want to know that we didn't have to produce defense equipment. Therefore, it is important when we discuss the matter today, that it happens – just as it does in this Chamber – in an open tone, with a big message that opens up facts about an industry that is legal and that is important, both for Norway’s security and to contribute to important technology development for Defence and Industry in Norway. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation through the work of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e468	Let me begin by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good work on this communication, which is not only a notification on the export of defence equipment in 2013, but also on export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. The total value of exports of defence equipment in 2013 was approx. 4.3 B.C.E. kr. 2.5 B.C.E. kr of this was so-called A-material, i.e. exports of weapons, ammunition and other materials with strategic capacity. The rest were B-materials: communication equipment, helmets, nightglasses, etc. NATO countries and Sweden and Finland were the major recipients of both arms and other defence equipment. In 2013, exports of A-material to the NATO region and our two neighbouring countries amounted to 88 pst. For B-material, the proportion was even higher, at 93 pst. So it's sales to our allies in addition to trade in Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO that make up the majority of Norway's exports of defence equipment. It doesn't always sound like this. For comparison: The export to Saudi Arabia was 1.7 million. kr and is about B-material, i.e. electronic equipment. Then, of course, it can be said that you should not grant a licence to countries that violate so many human rights. These are things that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must always consider in the light of the strict legislation adopted by the Stortinget. With the security policy situation we have in Europe, it is likely that allied and Nordic cooperation on defence material will increase. But it is the government, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that gives licences, and within the very strict and ethically balanced regulatory framework adopted by the Stortinget, which also includes clear international driving rules. For several decades Norway has had a strict export regime. Weapons and ammunition shall not be sold to areas of war or civil war. In 1997, democratic rights and respect for human rights were introduced as criteria. In 2010, a separate section for export control was established. Norway is also constantly working to ensure common international regulations for arms exports, and I would like to mention that on 16 January last year we ratified the Arms Trade Treaty, which was adopted at the UN on 2 April 2013 and signed on 3 June of that year. I would like to point out that Norway was very active during the negotiations to ensure that this agreement was given a strong humanitarian device. I am pleased that a unanimous uprising also supports a work to get to the end-user statement internally in NATO. Fortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also withdrawing licences. It happened, for example. in 2012, in the light of the dramatic events in Egypt, and that is how this regime is to be practised, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs follows the events in the world and looks at the licensing on the basis of the Storting decision. Finally, let me underline what the case rapporteur also stressed: a modern defence industry is an integral part of our defence and security policy, with a major strategic importance for Norway. The defence industry is also one of our leading innovators – a research and technology development among the leading in Norway and with ring-fences to a number of subcontracting companies. The industry also creates significant values and has approx. 4 500 annual works, not least in District Norway. It should be added that we have an open defence market, that we actually import 70 pst. of our capabilities. This is not least about imports from Sweden, but of course also from our allies in NATO. That is exactly why it is important that we have a rigorous and ethically sound trade regime, and that trade regime should also be working to get the best possible international, as Norwegian governments and Norwegian government have done for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e491	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its good cooperation with the rapporteur. Norway is good at industrial development in many disciplines and is also at the forefront of some of our technologies. This also applies to the development of defence equipment. The production and export of defence equipment is a major asset in Norway and is a significant contributor to the development of competence in the Norwegian industry in advanced technology. The defence industry has major positive ring-effects through research, innovation and knowledge transfer to other industries. With 137 defence industries spread across almost all counties, today we have 4,800 annual works, which also contribute to important district jobs. With a turnover in 2013 of approx. 12 B.C.E. kr contributes to the significant value creation of defence-related activities and services in Norway. In line with other industries, the defence industry is also dependent on predictable frameworks. The Norwegian defence industry operates in an international market. If Norway is to remain at the top of technology development, we must have rules that can allow Norwegian producers to compete on as much equal terms as possible as our allies, in order not to fall back on development. Government parties believe it is important that Norway does not end up in a situation where Norwegian industry is excluded from international development projects as a result of new spe­cific rules. Exports of defence equipment are under strict control in Norway. Our guidelines represent restrictive practices in which countries can receive different types of military equipment from Norway and which criteria lead to refusal of export. The decision of the Great Britain of 1959 is the guiding principle, which states that Norway does not allow ‘the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war or to countries where there is civil war’. In addition to continuing the policies of the previous government in this area, the government has strengthened the legislation further in 2014. This includes, inter alia: from now on, all principles and assessment criteria appear collectively and with greater clarity than before. The tightening up of legislation by the Government ensures that respect for human rights, as well as for civil and political rights in the countries of destination in question is included in the assessment for export. The defence equipment export from Norway mainly goes to the NATO countries, Sweden and Finland – 88 p.m. Of our A-material, which is essentially munitions of weapons, and 93 pst. of the B-material, which is other military material. The open public debate on export control and also consultations in the United Kingdom provide important input into the enforcement and enforcement of the legislation. The Government's objective is to contribute to maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment. All parties in the Committee welcome the cooperation that has been in place in recent years to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway and believe that increased transparency and information have contributed to a more open sector and wider societal debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e510	Statistically, it is discarded to insure its own dwelling against fire. We'll do it anyway. Similarly, investment in the defence of the country is to be seen as an insurance premium. But while the risk of residential fires does not increase according to lack of fire insurance, history has shown that the chance of war increases in line with the lack of willingness to invest in defence. Only a small fraction of what is produced by weapons and weapon systems in Norway or in our allies has ever been used in war or conflict. Almost all of the weapons ordered, produced, traded and equipped by our soldiers are finally destroyed, without ever having been used in battle. Nevertheless, these weapons are essential to our defence capability and our common security. It's about deterrence, it's about sovereignty, and it's about creating a certainty that a military attack will be repaid. The goal is to make our defence and NATO so powerful that a potential attacker should know that we have the ability and the will to defend ourselves. NATO is the most successful defence alliance in history because it has never needed to use its military capabilities to defend one of the alliance's member countries. It has been successful because the Member States have produced, acquired and equipped their bases and facilities with increasingly advanced, high-tech defence equipment, which has left the post-war cold war cold cold cold cold cold cold cold until we won the cold war. Upgrading and equipment worked, human life was saved, countries built parallel strong democracies and good welfare societies. Our development of the production of defence equipment ensures the nation's defence capabilities through strong alliances and a powerful defense. Some try to present this as a paradox. It's not. There is solidarity put in system, community through mutual dependence – short and good alliance. Alliance cooperation commits. The cooperation in NATO has five legs to stand on: collective defence, military R & D, logistics, education and military material. All contribute in terms of ability, competence, security of supply and economy. NATO as an organisation attempting to interweave the 28 countries of the alliance. Mutual dependence is both a goal and a means. For many years, Norwegian defence companies have acquired knowledge and skills that make them among the world's leading in some niche technologies. It's a trick that we as a nation should be proud of and grateful for. Enterprises with success in defence technology have provided significant synergies for civil industry and subsequently given ground for multi-use technologies. Competence of the defence industry has given Norway a boost in oil and gas, aviation, marine technology and space technology. These are industries that have given Norway thousands of jobs and our very largest revenues, thereby ensuring our well-being. The Norwegian defence industry is therefore an important integral part of Norwegian industry, which provides the basis for further development of other technology areas. The development of advanced defence technology requires long-term and multilateral cooperation. Yesterday's news told us that Statoil is planning to reduce the number of engineers by another 2,500. This is dramatic news for those involved, and dramatic news for public welfare. In the setting we are dealing with today, several parties use all their energy to talk down the Norwegian defence industry. All the proposals that are being promoted restrict the ability of the defence industry to compete in line with the industry in allied countries – with the very best intentions, it was claimed. We are facing a situation in which a political minority wants to impose new peculiar export restrictions on the Norwegian defence industry, which means that industry will not be able to survive. Thus, proposals are being promoted in the service of goodness that will lead to companies that secure public revenue not being able to compete – those who create the values of all in this room are very good at using. You choose with open eyes to saw off the branch you're sitting on. But for whom are we really elected jobs? Isn't it time we either boast a little of those who give us the opportunity to give us the money we do for public welfare? The paradox is that those who talk the defense industry down are often the same people who speak Norwegian production of oil and gas down. However, they are also in line for the introduction of new public welfare measures – perhaps the regional meeting in the Left was a confirmation of exactly that – a well-being that the proposers believe should be financed by green jobs, while at the same time not having the slightest idea of where to establish such profitable green jobs in thousands. And tax-funded media and civil society are collective on the part of proposers. I hope they're prepared for the fall, for also the cases of the branch they're sitting on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e536	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman, Liv Signe Navarsete, for a very good job. I very much agree with her saying that it is very nice that we have that kind of debate and openness, and that we also raise this kind of ethically demanding problem setting in the way that happens in the storeroom today. The Christian People's Party has long worked for stricter guidelines for arms exports and increased openness, and we have achieved improvements. This is reflected in the annual reports on Norwegian exports of defence equipment. But the legislation still needs to be improved. In the last year, Dagbladet has revealed that some former Norwegian maritime vessels are still in the hands of private operators in Nigeria. This is now under investigation, and the case is being dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at Stortinget. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently made a regulatory change that strengthens the licensing obligation for previously modified defence equipment. This is important to prevent such events from happening again. Russia's attack on Ukraine is an unacceptable violation of international law. We therefore support the new ban on the export of arms and armaments to Russia. The ban also covers exports of multi-use goods and technologies that may be considered for military use. The export value of Norwegian defence equipment was close to 4.3 billion in 2013. kr. This was a decrease of 6 pst. from the previous year. Most of it – about 90 pst. – went to NATO countries and to Sweden and Finland. In 2013, 19 applications for export licences for defence equipment and services were rejected. Technological leadership is becoming increasingly important in many areas. That's the same with the Defense. Should the defence industry succeed, need a high level of competence and commitment to leading technology. The technological competence created by the defence industry is also important for other high-tech industries. But military technology is not at all. Therefore, Norway must have strict export control legislation and we must promote common international rules and high international control standards for exports of defence equipment. In the relevant international forums, Norway needs to work to achieve a common norm for userdocumentation and to work towards its becoming a norm in NATO. In the examination of the previous stockpiling notification on arms exports, a consensus committee underlined the importance of a new checklist being used consistently and systematically. The importance of human rights needs to be carefully highlighted and stressed in the assessment. We also need to ensure that the export code works well in practice. The Christian People's Party, Left and SV point out in a joint note that in violation of the rule of law, Norwegian arms exports to regimes with gross human rights violations continue. Of these countries, Saudi Arabia has been the largest exporter in the last decade. SV and the Christian People's Party therefore make two proposals to strengthen the export legislation. I submit these two proposals and recommend that they be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e562	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e565	The left is also for us to have a weapons industry in Norway. We think it's important, not just because it creates jobs, but because it's also a technological driver for a lot of other industries. It is important to have these professional environments in Norway. But it's also important that arms exports are seen in the light of ethics and human rights, especially because we're getting a world that's getting smaller and smaller, where ethics and morals don't stop at borders, and where suddenly there's an international situation that makes this room decide that military aircraft should be sent to bomb in Libya. The fact that we have sold B-materials to the same country a few years before – and that it is light-emitting devices that we have produced in Norway that point up to the Norwegian bombers when they cross the border – clearly shows the dilemma we face if we can't keep our minds right. Because when the lights were exported to Libya, our idea was not to target Norwegian bombers. It was not that we thought that the situation in Libya, which could be unstable, could lead to threats to Norwegian life and Norwegian soldiers. This shows how important it is to have the principles and ethics in order. Exporting weapons and materials affects Norway as well, and it should affect the policies we have in this field. I would also like to put forward the Left's proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's a slightly different model than what it's added to in the proposal of the Christian People's Party and SV. We're using the same thinking that we have towards the oil fund also in the case of Norwegian arms exports. Because what I understand about the frustration of those who produce materials that can fall into all the different categories is that we have a huge bureaucracy. We're always using a lot of staff to evaluate all of these applications. It must also be done within a legislative framework. I had hoped that we could see if we could remove any of that bureaucracy by moving the power to such an ethics council, which could have the right to say yes or no, and which could have the hand on the wheel all the time in terms of this code. In this way, we could have done something about bureaucracy. We could have had a public debate about where those boundaries should go, but we might also have had an effective and clear limit that is easy to deal with for our industry, and that is also good to deal with on the basis of the principles adopted in this Chamber. We could then have professional experts in this field who could make ongoing assessments. So I would like to stress that having restrictive rules in this field is just about being predictive of what conflicts we might have to engage in, and that we are on the right side with our exports. Here, we are facing completely different challenges than any other export issue. So it's not hostile to business to make sure that we have good legislation in this area; we're going to have a good and efficient arms industry as part of our common industry. But we have to make sure that we take care of Norwegian soldiers, no matter where they are in the world. I do not want Norwegian-produced weapons to be directed at those who have been sent by this hall, who are willing to sacrifice their lives on our behalf. I don't want Norwegian weapons to be used for human rights violations or other abuses, because that's what we're going to meet again when we're going to manage what we stand for internationally politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e576	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e579	Norway has a good and strict code for our arms exports, and that makes sense. We do not export to countries that are in war and conflict. We have a long tradition for that, and that's important. We have introduced a so-called consumer declaration as an important tool for it, and we have, not least in the last decade, considerably streamlined the legislation on exports to countries that are grossly violating human rights. Other speakers, e.g. The representatives Skei Grande and Hareide, have given two quite different examples of why we have it, and that this has proved important, even the very last years, but the legislation has had holes, which have been open, among others. in the last few years, and one of the matters referred to in the Committee of Inquiry these days. That is also why the legislation can be better, and I would like to stop a flash at why we have it. Is there anything that makes the defence industry different from other exports? Firstly, the defence industry is important to Norway in different ways, there is no doubt about it. First, we ourselves have a defense, other countries have it, and it's being produced material for this. The defence industry is important for employment, but it is not least important for technological innovation. But all the nutrition must also count on being judged on the basis of her intention, and then I think it can be said that the defence industry, when it produces material for what we ourselves are widely concerned about – a defense – and which we believe other countries to have, is a industry that is good reason and that leads to something reasonable. But if one produces material for wars, armed conflicts, civil wars or for internal repression and gross violations of human rights, it is not. That's why we're trying to have a strict code for this. And to the extent that we know that we have aspects of the legislation that do not meet that purpose, we should improve them, and in the SV's view, this is particularly open on four points: firstly, we should not allow the sale of any kind of defence material to countries that grossly violate human rights. We do that to a lesser extent than just a few years ago. Saudi Arabia has been mentioned here – for example. the amount has decreased significantly. But it also means that it would not in any way be a major problem for the Norwegian defence industry if we were to export to countries that grossly violate human rights. It's small amounts, and fortunately it's relatively few countries, but it could be politically and symbolically important if Norway had this consistent policy, as the Christian People's Party and SV suggest here in the vote. Secondly, we should have an even greater degree of openness than we have today. It can achieve through greater openness in the messages themselves and the running applications that are being submitted, and one can achieve it through a kind of advice. I have to say that it has almost a comics cut over itself that the Left, Christian People's Party and the SV have not managed to become some of the kind of advice we're going to figure out. Now we can take comfort in that none of the pieces are agreed on, and maybe we'll be able to get a few more about a distribution decision that covers different types of advice for the next time. I don't have the answer to what's right – Sweden has a model, another model can be just as good – but that someone outside should look at us in the cards is a model that I think we can use to try out in Norway. The third point concerns ownership, because the two major Norwegian players in this market are now also the owners of facilities located in other countries, with much less developed, or weaker, export legislation than Norway has. And we know that in several cases – and not least one, which has received a lot of attention – factories owned or owned by Norwegian companies have sold weapons to countries that are at war and conflict. Then something of a policy disappears. So SV suggests, as I'm now considering, that Norway, through its ownership practice in companies in which we are wholly or jointly owned, should influence policy, so that Norwegian policy is followed also for facilities abroad. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the important work on the NATO declaration of end-users as the fourth step forward. Here we have assumed that it was only SV who meant this a few years ago, that there is now a collusion that we think we should work for it. For the time being, we haven't seen enough progress, but I hope we will. If we don't, we'll have to assess whether we have to use stronger tools in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e597	The representative Burd Vegar Solhjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e600	Earlier this year, our Swedish sister party, the Green Party, was given the advantage that Sweden would stop selling arms to Saudi Arabia. This shows, then, that a large arms producer and arms export can make even more precise ethical choices than we have so far made here in Norway, although, as many have pointed out, we are in a positive trend towards intensification of the ethical code of arms exports. This annual debate on Norwegian exports of defence equipment ensures information on arms exports, that it is made available to people and elected representatives, and that is well done, we will say from the Greens, the Greens, that Norway should be able to pursue a consistent and precise policy in this area. But, as several representatives have pointed out, there has been – and continues to be – an inconsistent policy on the export of arms to countries that violate human rights and are dictatorships. This is not a question of yes or no to the Norwegian defence industry, it is not a question of attacking the jobs and technology developments taking place in the Norwegian defence industry – it is a question of being consistent with the rules we have already adopted here in Stortinget. In the same debate that took place last year, the Environment Party of the Greens pointed out that the Stortinget already decided in 2011 to change its practices with a view to preventing exports to authoritarian regimes. However, this decision was so unclear that it was not clear whether the Stortinget actually said an absolute no to export to purely dictatorships. In 2012, the Stortinget concluded that the material should not be used for repressive purposes, but the door was still slightly open to export to regimes that committed gross human rights violations. In 2014 many thought that the matter was ready. Then the majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left wrote that ‘The government’s risk assessment does not result in arms being exported to countries where the authorities commit serious violations of human rights’. So it's repeatedly determined by the majority of the population that exports of weapons to authoritarian regimes that violate human rights are not going to happen, and we have too long a list that this consensus is not being followed up in practice. This year’s notification demonstrates that Norway is still selling defence equipment to dictatorships. In 2013, we exported e.g. war materials to land such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Oman. The Red-Green Government also chose to accept the submission by the State-owned Kongsberg Group of a billion-dollar contract for the sale of armaments to Oman, a dictatorship, placed in the High Risk category of the Human Rights Index, published by the United Nations, from 2014. So this is a country that, according to the UN, violates human rights. We're exporting weapons there. On the part of the Green Party, we cannot see this as anything but a breach of the consensus established in the Stortinget. We are therefore submitting a proposal today asking the government to reject the application for an export licence for deliveries through the Oman contract. We are fully aware that this will not be adopted, and it will be alarming to withdraw a contract, but the whole point here is to get a practice that makes us avoid this kind of situation, where contracts that can be put into question from a human rights perspective, and where it becomes relevant to propose that such a contract be withdrawn. For industry too, it is useful and appropriate to have such a clear practice that you know what to do with whom to contract. We also propose for this reason that the Stortinget ask the government to use its right of governance to ensure that the company withdraws this contract. Furthermore, the Greens will support the proposals presented today by the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In particular, we see proposal No. 1, by the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, as an important clarification of a more consistent policy in this area, and the proposal by the same parties to investigate a parliamentary export control council is exciting. This also applies to the Left's proposal for an ethics council. There's a kind of thinking about establishing a slightly independent assessment of these questions that we have a significant sense of. In addition, we want to promote a proposal to further improve the reporting in connection with the export of Norwegian armaments. We want to make it easier to assess what kind of factors are emphasised in these assessments of licence applications. I would like to bring up the Greens' proposals with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e622	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e625	We are living in a time of comprehensive security policy challenges, and our defence capabilities depend entirely on Norway producing and exporting military materials. I think the case rapporteur got these important points in his statement. It is also true that Norway has a special geography. We have tough sea areas, we have fjords, and we have a topography that's special. Over the years, the Norwegian defence industry has the power to develop key materials adapted to Norwegian conditions, so that we can better defend our country if necessary. So the development of this kind of material and the quality of it again have contributed to the export of this to the rest of the world. It has created the critical mass necessary for this material to be priced in such a way that it is possible for the Defense to buy it without becoming too expensive. In addition, the authorities are also checked by exporting internationally, and if you do not act in international competition, you will clearly see that you do not buy at the right price. The Norwegian defence industry is high-tech. It represents important jobs in Norway, but, above all, the Norwegian defence industry is an important pillar in defending our country and having a defence capacity. It is that the defence industry is an important part of being able to defend our own country. I'm glad that there's a broad majority in the Storting that's of that opinion. At the same time, this industry needs clear and predictable framework conditions. The Norwegian export control regime, on which several representatives have been involved, has shown that it is possible to obtain a competent and competitive defence industry within the framework of strict and ethically balanced legislation. In fact, Norway has one of the world's most stringent regimes for the export of defence equipment. This regime is a result of the transparency that constitutes the guiding principle of our control, and of the emphasis placed on making thorough assessments before the export of licensed equipment can be granted. Our tradition of transparency through annual communications to the Stortinget is unique compared to other countries. Most of our exports, away from 90 p.m., go to NATO and to the Nordic countries. It's essential to bring it with us. So I noticed that someone mentioned Saudi Arabia and Sweden. I just underline that Norway has never sold weapons to Saudi Arabia. What Sweden has now decided is that they will no longer sell arms and A-materials to Saudi Arabia, as I understand it. I think it's important to bring yourself here, so that you keep your tongue straight in your mouth – that's always an advantage. As I said, our tradition is openness. A system based on soundness and clear criteria has produced results, and the system of annual wholesale notifications has provided a dynamic regime in which conditions leading to improvements are continuously identified. In 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected 19 applications for export licences, not least because of the risk of internal repression and serious human rights violations in the recipient countries. We make a concrete assessment of each individual application, and not least in terms of this material, even if it is not weapons or ammunition, i.e. category A, but category B, which is defence material, but which is not weapons. Even when, for example, For equipment such as spotlights, equipment to improve night vision, this with hearing protection, i.e. the type of export, we explicitly assess whether it can be used in repression in that country, and if it can be used for it, it will be rejected. In addition, this government has tightened the legislation further. An even greater emphasis is now placed on the risk of material being used in repression of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e647	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good contribution. He was also in his post within, and compared to, Sweden and Saudi Arabia. I wonder if he can briefly comment on the discussion that has taken place in our neighbouring country related to the export of defence equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e652	More than that – subject to the fact that the final legislation has not yet been drafted in Sweden. So where the Swedish government finally lays down, remains to be seen. What is at least obvious, as I said in my post, is that until recently Sweden has sold weapons, category A material, to Saudi Arabia. Norway has not done this, and we will not do so in the future. Last year we sold materials for 1.7 million. kr to Saudi Arabia, after a thorough assessment – export licence – where this material has to be reviewed in order to ensure that it cannot be used for internal repression. The exports to Saudi Arabia have also decreased in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e659	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good contribution. He was concerned about the importance of the Norwegian arms industry for our own safety, but the Norwegian arms industry is also important to enter the global market, in order to develop. In July 2009, the EU adopted a Directive on the acquisition of defence equipment, which Norway introduced on 1 January 2014. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he has experience that the directive has led to the Norwegian defence industry having received more deliveries to EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e666	It is true that in the autumn of 2014, all the EU criteria for assessing exports against internal conditions in a country, as well as the criteria deriving from the UN Arms Trade Agreement, were put together as a consolidated list. In addition, as the representative mentioned, EU legislation has now been adjusted and adapted. As I mentioned, the figures for our exports also show that the EU is an important export market for the Norwegian defence industry. Overall, exports to NATO Member States and the Nordic countries represent 90p.s. and the EU is heavy inside. However, whether there is a clear causal link between what the representative asks about, and possibly a strengthened Norwegian market position, I have no reason to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e673	I also thought the Foreign Minister presented the healing in this area in a good way to the Stortinget. What I want to challenge him on is: We know that Sweden has a parliamentary export control board. And in his speech, the Foreign Minister just said that openness is important. So there is a proposal here, not to introduce it, but to sort it out – so look at the possibility of the Swedish solution. My question is: why does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not want to help out and look at the possibility that we know is in Sweden today, and that works very well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e682	First of all, thank the representative, Mr Hareide, for his good words. When I was in the Defense Department, I remember it standing on the barracks: Don’t fix what’s okay! With regard to the Norwegian system today, it is one of the most stringent in the world, and many countries look to Norway in terms of our export regime, the big message presented, and the openness and debate we have today. So I think we have a robust and good system. And given all the investigations in Norwegian state administration, I don't think it's appropriate to start investigating something that's right, that works very well, that's good for our defence capabilities and for the defence industry. At the same time, we stress that our exports should take place within a sound and strict ethical framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e692	In the course of the last year’s debate on this matter, a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence reaffirmed the importance – and I quote – ‘of the government’s risk assessment that Norway will not allow the sale of defence-related products to countries in areas of international armed conflict or where such armed conflict threatens’. In January 2014, the Kongsberg Group concluded a major contract of SEK 3,7 billion. kr for export of the NASAMS rocket system, i.e. launch ramps, to Oman. Oman is the neighboring country of Yemen. In addition to Oman being a country on the UN list of countries that violate human rights, this country is at a level where there is conflict or where conflict threatens. What is the Foreign Minister's comment on the agreement between the contract and that agreed by the Storting on arms exports to such regimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e701	I have some doubts about the timing of the licence to which the representative refers. Very familiar was the former government who said yes to this licence to Oman, but perhaps I am wrong. I have no objections to the decision that was made at that time. Oman is by the terms we operate on, not in any category that disqualifies them from exporting Norwegian defence material.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e708	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the contribution and would like to stress that the Labour Party also supports the current regime, that is. that the Storting decides the guidelines for arms exports and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issues licences. The defence industry is an important part of our defence policy and is also strategically important, i.e. of strategic importance. However, it is important that we have very clear rules – these are countries in war, in civil war, which oppress their own citizens, and which violate fundamental human rights. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he will see even more critically on some requests for licences, including in the case of B-materials, to countries that violate fundamental human rights. Since Saudi Arabia has been brought up here in the past, I would like to ask you a specific question. It's 1,7 million. kr, and as far as I remember, it is about communication systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e715	As I said at the outset, Norway has one of the strictest rules for the export of defence equipment. We're going to have to keep going. I have further tightened up the legislation, but there is also a broad consensus in Stortinget on how we will handle this legislation, and that is a strength. It creates predictability for the defence industry. I think the previous government also had a very sensible policy in this area. In the case of countries that violate human rights, it is clear that we do not export, for example. to Saudi Arabia, A-material. Now, we've reduced exports to Saudi Arabia in recent years, but B-materials are being assessed in concrete terms, and it's totally inappropriate to export materials that can be used for repression. These are assessments in line with what the previous government agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e722	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am counting on those who thought it was a very good and covering article. It is important that Norway both has and practises a strict code for the export of defence equipment. The regulation on exports of defence equipment states that the U.D. may require suppliers to provide a final user declaration. A joint committee supports the work of the government to raise this in the international forums in order to have a common norm that could become a common norm in NATO. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs say something about where this issue is on the international agenda today, and how he will continue to work on that issue, which a joint committee then agrees that it is important to work on further?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e729	What the representative addresses is essential, namely that you have to work in international forums, including in NATO, in order to reach an agreement on that type of international legislation. When it is an international code or a NATO code, it will mean that the Norwegian defence industry is in a situation where most of the defence industry will be confronted with the same criteria. The end-user declaration that the use of this material is to be guaranteed by the purchaser is essential. I hope that all countries will introduce the kind of end-user statement that we are practicing where our regulations require it. That you can start with that in NATO, and that's the starting point, I think it makes sense. This is something that we're also working on in the various international forums, including NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e736	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e741	Today’s debate is important for several reasons, first and foremost to establish that Norway has one of the world’s most stringent control regimes for exports of defence equipment, on which most speakers have spoken. At the same time, it is important to involve stakeholders in such debates. It helps to strengthen democracy, but not least helps to ensure transparency and reprobability of how Norway practices exports of defence equipment. It is also reflected in the configuration of the Committee. There are shared opinions about some of the points — and especially views on arms exports to repressive regimes. We may have different opinions about this, but it's an important social debate, which we're all going to take seriously. And we do -- the big message that we're discussing today, that's exactly what we're doing. Norway is concerned about this and extensive international cooperation on export control and non-proliferation is taking place between many countries. We also have examples that changes in the international picture can sometimes lead to the opening up of exports to markets that have previously been closed down to the Norwegian defence industry, while in other cases negative developments in a country or in a regional conflict may lead to policies being tightened up. It shows that the Norwegian authorities take seriously the responsibility of being an exporter of armaments. It is worth noting in this regard that the defence industry is also very clear that they themselves depend on keeping a high ethical standard. This is particularly important when we record that focusing on transparency and ethics is developing to become important competitive factors for the defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry, with its locomotives Kongsberg Arms Factory and Nammo at its head, is very skilled in its field – not only for our own defence and national security, but also as an actor in the global market. There are many of us who want them to have the opportunity to evolve further. When the EU adopted in July 2009 a new Directive for the acquisition of defence equipment, which Norway introduced from 1 January 2014, it gave hope of greater access to the European market. I have no doubt that Norwegian defence companies are meeting the challenge of being competitive both on technology and on costs. It is important for industry as well as for Norwegian authorities to follow up on whether its intention gives rise to increased competition in the European market. I registered the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs instead, but the feedback may indicate that we have some challenges in this area. Despite the fact that it is nice to record that our companies are winning the competition, we see that an increasing number of Norwegian companies are getting contracts on parts of the F-35 aircraft. But we want more, and we need to contribute from several teams, in order for the Norwegian defence industry to get contracts in line with the industrial plan for the acquisition of fighter aircraft. In September 2015, the first Norwegian F-35 aircraft will be delivered. As far as Norwegian defence industry supplies are concerned, it should be as far as possible. We have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e762	I didn't intend to take the floor again, but I was tempted by – excuse me, but I have to say – some posts where you haven't really got involved in the matter of how the defence industry actually works, and I think that's unfortunate when you're standing in the main hall. Only to the latter representative, Simensen, who said that we can have different opinions about arms exports to ‘repressive regimes’. No, there are no different opinions and opinions about arms exports to oppressive regimes in this room. Everyone is against it, and we don't – we have an export code that says we shouldn't, and we don't. So it's going to be A material. So you shouldn't start a discussion by saying that first, and then say why you shouldn't have it, and that there might be different opinions. It doesn't exist, and then you shouldn't discuss it either. So how does the defence industry actually work? It is the case that large defence industry companies in Europe, and also in the United States, produce components that form part of a larger system. That's what Kongsberg makes money on, and that's how Kongsberg produces – also Nammo, for that matter. That is why Thales exists in Norway, because they produce components and cooperate with Norwegian defence. They are part of a larger system. So let's take an example, if you want the end-user statement. Let's say the Americans are asked to have an end-user statement on everything we sell to the United States, so that they don't export it further to countries we don't want to export to. What do the Americans want to say? Then you can't be part of this system, for example. part of the JSF, to which we intend to export to countries to which you would not have exported defence equipment. Then we can't say as the representative Simensen says, that we want more contracts. You cannot ask for more contracts when you do not want the United States to be able to export to other countries, according to their export legislation. The US cannot be required to use the Norwegian export legislation, which is among the most stringent in the world, if they have different export legislation and they are the world's largest suppliers and producers of defence equipment. It's not on your fingertips. That is why, on the basis of the proposals made, there is a lack of knowledge about the industry itself, and that is why it is so pointless. An example is the proposal for more transparency. A so-called ethics board shall be set up to which it shall be subject. I guess there are big business representatives and others who are going to sit there and think of something and see something, pick up expert advice from different actors to find out about Kongsberg, Nammo and others are going to get an export license. There's been an excellent idea. So are we going to sit and test the companies, oversee the experts who are getting their expert advice through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And with regard to the transparency of businesses – what are their business plans, their desire for export legislation, which we are going to discuss in transparency, and which the media can take? There are no companies operating in this way, and it is completely impossible to implement. So to the end-user statement: we're going to have a NATO end-user statement, said the Foreign Minister. I myself have worked for three years in NATO and sat at the table that negotiates that kind of declaration. I can guarantee that it will never happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e777	First of all, I would like to express my full support to the majority of the Committee on this matter for having put forward a well-balanced position. All of us agree with the need to have a strict regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment and the best possible practice of this, and that transparency and debate – as today – are very important. Norway shall continue to work internationally to promote high standards of control. The majority of the Committee highlights the importance of the defence industry for jobs, many in District Norway – value creation and innovation far beyond the defence industry. That's the good reason. It's about 137 companies, 4,800 annual works and a turnover of about 12 billion. kr in 2013. Left and SV stand outside of this note - they will not be involved in referring to the importance of this industry. Last Friday we, the three workers' party representatives from Oppland, Nammo in Raufoss Industripark, visited the only Norwegian manufacturer of rocket engines and ammunition. The defence industry continues to play a very important role in the industrial environment at Raufoss and represents a large number of skilled jobs, nearly 700. That's still the way it should be. Nammo is today the top three in the supply chain of rocket engines in the western world. They have been able to compete with the French industry in France and the American industry in the United States. At the same time, defence budgets have been reduced, while protectionism has not narrowed. Nammo is today also the sole supplier of the rocket engine to the AMRAAM missile, which is designed to protect airspace of more than 30 nations. This would not have been possible without the technological advantage – and could deliver good quality at the right price, and not least, and then at my main point, being guaranteed predictable and stable framework conditions. International customers and partners trust Nammo. However, at the same time, significant changes from Norwegian in the practice of the export control regime, or only signals that this may be the case, will provide the company's customers and competing industry with the basis for asking whether the Norwegian defence industry – and not least the Norwegian authorities – will meet its obligations throughout the lifetime of the material. One-sided Norwegian measures are likely to have a major impact on the Norwegian defence industry. That is why I am pleased that the minority vote proposal is just a minority proposal, and that the majority of the committee and the government agree to ensure that there are still clear and predictable framework conditions. Today’s arms export legislation is strict but ‘ethically balanced’, as the majority of the Committee says. Norway will then continue to work internationally for a common standard for end-user documentation. By doing so, we ensure that competition for supplies is carried out on the same terms and conditions as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e818	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e829	As the committee has given the rapporteur 5 minutes, while it has been a little more rowdy to its seas, this is probably going to be quite headlined. It's been 15 years since the last time we had a message about human rights. It's been 15 years since a bourgeois government last chose to lift human rights in its own notice to the Stortinget. Then it was Lars Sponheim who was the case rapporteur here in Stortinget, and I feel that this is a fine legacy to continue with him and Harald Hove, who made the greatest effort in Stortinget. 15 years ago, the communication had major consequences, both nationally and internationally. It was an important message. It was both about respecting human rights and about knowing what the human rights situation is. Then we need both systems and civil society – which can be watchtowers to implement this. The first case we are dealing with here today is a typical example of how Norway should increase its authority internationally through human rights work. And it's about acting within the moral responsibility we have. It is often said in foreign policy debates that Norway is a small country, but it also gives us the opportunity to promise some ideals that may be demanding for others. I think the government's message is basically good. But it promises a large area, and the challenge for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and for the rest of the government is enough to follow it up. As the message shows, many human rights are under great pressure internationally, both civil and political rights. We see that all fundamental rights are connected. The job done by Eleanor Roosevelt and others after World War II was very important, from a whole. It is quite essential to have access to both food, water and healthcare, while at the same time having to express one's opinions. Combating poverty is also an important part of the entire human rights system — or combating the sale of girls as child-breeds for the survival of the family. I want to raise four themes – and I'll see if I can reach it in 2 minutes and 30 seconds. Firstly, it is in these days – which the President has also been in the process of marking – 75 years since Norway experienced the occupation of a foreign power and we learned what it means that friends, family and others are given refugee status. Those who are refugees in Norway today have experienced the same thing with their country of origin. It is important to set up and act – to protect and help those who need it – and we can remember what it was like for the Norwegian citizens. Today we have experienced the worst refugee disaster since World War II. It's obvious that setting up and helping these refugees is also important to strengthen the human rights situation in the world. Secondly, it is about women's rights and gender equality. As the world has now evolved, this is becoming more and more demanding. In the area by area, we see that women's rights are being reversed in several fields, and we see countries that introduce laws where they are being pushed even more. In war and conflict, and in flight, we also see that women and women's rights are being pushed, and those who have worked with people who have fled from their homeland to another country know that women are subject to many more abuses than men. It's been 100 years since the Castberg Children's Act was passed. Lifting children's rights, both nationally and internationally, is important. And I have to pay for saying that that's why I think it's also important that the Children's Convention be fully implemented in Norway, and that we have the individual appeal procedure implemented. The last thing I think I can reach is the climate perspective. Today, we also need to look at human rights in a generation perspective. Making a living standard for the future depends on preserving biodiversity and functioning ecosystems, and we are able not to get the major climate change that will lead to hundreds of thousands – perhaps millions – of people on our globe back in a new refugee situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e855	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for providing an important and necessary communication – a communication on human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy. Then it's even more important that we get concrete follow-up to such a message. In international politics, we all too often, unfortunately, see that there are some double standards of human rights. Human rights are often assessed a little bit differently, depending on the relationship you have with a regime at a given time. The gross violations of general human rights in countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia tend to continue because they want to have a good relationship with the country's regimes at the moment. Here I can add that the suppression of women's elementary rights is also often seen through the fingertips, not only in the countries I mentioned, but we see with concern the development of India, not least on the extent of rapes against women and girls. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that each individual — men, women and children — is unique, with inviolable rights. Individuals shall be protected against repression, from poverty, from abuse and degradation. A unanimous committee points out that human rights must be seen as both an objective and a means of foreign and development policy. It means that it's not that some human rights apply today and others tomorrow. Nor is it true that some apply to men and others to women. Human rights can never be culturally related. This means that all people should be able to participate in these rights at all times. It also means that no religious or cultural tradition can defend human rights violations. In particular, it concerns the right to life, the right to privacy, the right to be protected from torture and abuse, but also the right to health, to work, to social participation. As one of the few countries, Norway has actively opposed attempts to encroach on women’s rights and has long played an important role in promoting women’s rights and gender equality globally, including for so-called sensitive issues such as sexual and reproductive health and rights. In this area, we have the opportunity to be a bridge builder between different interest groups and across national borders. I am pleased that a joint committee expresses the view that Norway should be at the forefront of women's rights internationally. Violation of women's integrity also underlines the responsibility of States to prevent and criminal prosecutions committed by private actors. If countries do not follow this up, the international community has an obligation to do so. Example of this could be coercion, it could be sexual mutilation and honorary drap. However, this also applies to discrimination against, for example, religious groups. gay and lesbian. In recent years, we have seen a frightening increase in reports that gay, transpersonal and lesbian rights are being violated and that they are being deprived of fundamental rights. It is therefore important that Norway take initiatives and help to strengthen and improve the conditions of this large group. There is broad consensus in the Committee that Norway, in its international commitment, should contribute to strengthening human rights. However, in the vote, the parties distinguish layers when the majority and the government in the big news attempt to distinguish civil and political rights on the one hand, and economic, social and cultural rights on the other. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is essential to be able to realise the principle of equal opportunities that there is also a great deal of economic and social inequality. The right to grow up and not die before you turn five, is actually a fundamental right and the prerequisite for other human rights. That is why we also contribute so much from the Norwegian side, for example. The vaccine alliance GAVI, which is already doing a very good job ensuring that infants are growing up, that they are over five years old. It must be an objective of development policy to improve the ability of recipients to respect human rights. We should therefore see human rights and development cooperation in a broader context. Assistance should also support the realisation of human rights both in policy-making and in the implementation of specific programmes. The notification shall carry out a thematic review of priority areas in addition to the United Nations and country-to-country cooperation on human rights. The view on the importance of freedom of expression, of freedom of the press, of freedom of belief and of freedom of expression is a broad consensus, as is the commitment to the action plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and efforts to secure children against war, against child labour, against rape and against gender mutilation. An important theme in the context of human rights is the right to life. The death penalty is to violate this right. We must therefore fight and, in principle, distance ourselves from the death penalty in whatever country and under which regime the death penalty is practised. We cannot rank the view of the death penalty on the basis of a country's constitution or a country's case-law. Therefore, Norway has to engage in the fight against the death penalty in all countries that practise it. In a globalised world, international driving rules for trade, establishment, investment and production are important to prevent social dumping and exchange of cheap labour, including the use of child workers. Norwegian companies are also faced with new ethical and legal obligations in their internationalisation. For the Workers' Party, it is particularly important that a Joint Committee endorses the comments on decent working life and on the responsibilities of industry in respect of the rights of workers. It is important that Norwegian businesses that establish themselves abroad follow the UN and the ILO conventions on professional rights and contribute to raising professional standards in the host country. Finally, the announcement of the Grandfather gives a good overview of the work on human rights in different international contexts, and I will once again commend the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for presenting this communication to the discussion in Stortinget. But back to what I said at the outset: it might lack concrete proposals for follow-up. We therefore look forward to the government returning with concrete action plans, the work being evaluated afterwards, and the Stortinget being regularly updated on the status of work, as requested by a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e885	I would also like to start by commending the government and the foreign minister for lifting and strengthening the work on human rights by presenting the first human rights message in 15 years. It was high time. Respect for human rights is a foreign policy objective, but also a means of achieving sustainable development and security, and human rights are now to be emphasised and integrated into all foreign and development policies. It is worth noting the great commitment to human rights, and I would like to stress the importance of civil society being both a driver and a watchman in the work of safeguarding and promoting human rights. More than 400 civil society recordings have been recorded for this message, and most recordings have been taken into account in the further work. When we talk about human rights, we should not forget the good news. Several countries are going in a democratic direction. Economic, social and cultural rights have improved in most countries in Norway, according to Norad. Technological development and digital communication provide new opportunities for freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Unfortunately, however, wars, conflicts and major humanitarian crises present complex challenges and put human rights under increasing pressure globally. The Communication focuses on the fundamental human rights – civil and political rights – that we see under increasing pressure are more and more places in the world, including Russia, Central Asia, Latin America, Asia, Africa and not least in the Middle East. The civilian population in Syria, Iraq and other areas of conflict are being brutally attacked. The terrorist attacks in Copenhagen and Paris have underlined the importance of standing up for freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly. Foreign Minister Brende has said that human rights are the canary of society, referring to the miners who used to bring a canary into the dark. If that bird died, there was danger on the move. Increasing pressure on human rights is often the first sign of a country developing in the wrong direction. In war and conflict, women's rights are often among the first to be set aside. In Iraq and Syria, girls flee to avoid being sold as goods to the ISIL army. In South Sudan, women are raped when they pick up food and water. In Nigeria, over 270 teenage girls are kidnapped by the terrorist group Boko Haram – we heard even more figures today. Norway has to stand up for women, for the girls who are denied schooling, for children who are married and are sexually mutilated, and for female human rights champions. Violence and killing against women is not punished in many countries. In the UN we see that a group of'similar states', including Saudi Arabia, Syria, Egypt and China, consciously and systematically undermines and weakens the UN Human Rights Council. These countries claim that human rights are based on Western, Eurocentric civil and political rights that conflict with their traditional values. To this end, human rights and, in particular, women's rights are systematically suppressed. It is important that Norway contributes to building alliances across regions in order to combat these cancers. The Communication places particular emphasis on the individual's freedom and participation, and here rights that are under particular pressure, such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association and freedom of belief and freedom of life. These rights are fundamental to any society. It is the responsibility of States to protect human rights and prevent all forms of discrimination and violence, including violence against women, children, beliefs and beliefs, indigenous peoples, disabled persons and sexual minorities. There is a growing gap between the commitments made by countries and the enforcement of human rights in practice. Lack of compliance is often due to inability and lack of systems to ensure protection of rights. But it is also due to a lack of will. A key challenge is therefore to ensure national respect for human rights. The international system for the protection of human rights needs to improve. Only 3 pst. of the United Nations budget goes to the third pillar on human rights. This is too small. It is therefore good that the government is now working for a more effective UN and to strengthen its capacity to assist the countries in their human rights obligations. There should be clear criteria for countries applying for membership of the UN Human Rights Council. We need to work to strengthen the country's capacity and capacity to follow up its human rights obligations and recommendations of the UN country hearings. We have to keep working on strengthening the UN's third pillars, and this year it's set at $30 million. kr extra in our budget to strengthen human rights – a total of 380 million. kr. Education is central to promoting human rights. Previous mention has been made here — Norway is now taking a global lead in the work on relevant quality education for all, with particular emphasis on girls and children with disabilities, the poorest children and children in crisis and conflict. It is important that Norway is a driving force for respect for international humanitarian law, so that militarisation and attacks at schools and universities are stopped, among others. by taking a leading role in promoting the Lucens guidelines – the Safe Schools initiative – internationally. Many of the conflicts we see today are about a lack of respect for freedom of belief and the religion of others. Two weeks ago, 148 people were killed in an Islamic terrorist attack at a Kenyan college, where the terrorist organization Al Shabaab was behind. The chief of the attacks was said to be a well - educated lawyer who was a former teacher at an Islamic school in Kenya. We are seeing more and more cases of ideological extremism, rather than poverty, threatening human rights and turning into war and conflict in more places in the world. That is why it is so important to emphasise freedom of religion and belief as central human rights. Terrorist organisations care little about international legal protection – these see human rights, democracy and international law as Western structures that are in conflict with their understanding and tradition. As I said, the communication focuses on fundamental civil and political rights, which we see as being under increasing pressure. Nevertheless, it is important to stress, as we also make in our remarks on the communication, that civil and political rights, together with economic, social and cultural rights, constitute an indivisible whole. This is also reflected in the government's efforts to promote human rights. I want to move on towards the end by focusing on the role of business. Business and human rights are not only the social responsibility of business to respect human rights, but also the importance of business to promote and protect human rights in a wider societal context. Active Norwegian business contributes to increased income base and economic development. Only in Africa are Norwegian businesses converting for 60 billion. kr every year. It's about twice the annual aid budget. The ILO has estimated that the world needs 600 million. more jobs in the next decade. Job creation is essential to ensure that growth becomes inclusive, sustainable and contributes to democratic development. A responsible corporate exposure may increase respect for human rights and it is therefore important that Norway continues to have a leading role in the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business. Illegal capital flight, money from corruption and crime, is another serious obstacle to development. If you don't get tax, the government gets less money for schools, hospitals, infrastructure and other important public tasks. Tax evasion is a global problem and weakens trust between the state and the population. This is most serious for poor countries, which depend entirely on taxes in order to create development. Ensuring international and national human rights work requires both political and financial commitment. A comprehensive Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has underlined that it is neither possible nor desirable for this aid to be financed alone. National authorities in all countries must give priority to the financing of human rights. Illegal capital flows are estimated to amount to thousands of billions of dollars each year — more than all assistance and all foreign investment to developing countries combined. To this end, the Committee supports the efforts of the government to develop concrete international and national instruments and standards to limit international capital movements and tax evasion. States need effective and transparent tax collection solutions. We need measures to ensure that individuals, businesses and countries are not motivated by tax adaptation, capital evasion or corruption. In addition, Norway needs to make clear requirements for beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance in the field of human rights, democracy and the development of the rule of law. It is important to respond to serious human rights violations — and to have implications for cooperation. Therefore, it is good that the government focuses on strengthening Norwegian capacity and competence and strengthening training in the U.D. on human rights. I would once again like to commend the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive and timely report on enlargement, which thoroughly promises our international human rights work by clearly demonstrating that human rights are both a goal and a means, and that human rights are now to be integrated into all foreign and development policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e923	For the first time in 15 years, the government has provided a global report on human rights. That's the message we're finishing in the hall today. I would therefore like to thank the government for once again raising human rights through this communication. Human rights are, in a sense, the compass that shows the direction in which we are going to make political decisions. This is also the case in foreign and development policy. Unfortunately, the situation is too much characterised by the fact that human rights are under constant pressure. Human rights are and should be universal rights, and there should be rights that cannot be purchased. The Progress Party fully supports the Government's approach to strengthening the enforcement of human rights and to focus its efforts on the following three main areas: individual freedom and participation, rule of law and legal certainty, and equality and equal opportunities. The World Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the 1948 UN General Assembly in Paris, is the main basic document for the international human rights work. Article 1 clearly states: ‘All human beings are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act against each other in the spirit of the brotherhood.» Therefore, when discussing international human rights, it is not excluded from the UN. Not least: you don't get away from the UN's special body for human rights, the Human Rights Council in Geneva, and I'm going to spend some time on it. The Progress Party will commend the government for stating that requirements should be made for countries wishing to join the UN Human Rights Council. Since the Council was established in 2006 – as a substitute for the Human Rights Commission – we have been deeply critical of the Council’s composition and of how the Council, in part, manages its work. It appears absurd when countries with regimes that themselves systematically violate human rights are allowed into the UN's special body for human rights. I find reason to recall that the Council has as its primary task to strengthen, promote and protect human rights. Accepting that systematic repression of human rights, such as Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia or Venezuela, is to be the UN Human Rights Security Council – the UN ambassadors – and overseeing their enforcement, is for me to compare with, for example, that. that pedophiles should be a child offender or that rape offenders should be responsible for providing sexual information at school. The UN needs reform in many areas, but in order for the UN to have legitimacy in human rights work, there is a alarming need to be able to do something about the device, and that membership can only be achieved through compliance with some requirements. That the government will work to cooperate with the UN Special Rapporteurs as a criterion for membership is very positive and a good step in the right direction. The establishment of the Human Rights Council also brought about the introduction of periodic land hearings, in which all UN Member States should be consulted on the human rights situation in their own country by the other Member States and observers. There are both advantages and disadvantages of such a model, but as long as the Council is composed as it is today, the Progress Party is also critical of these hearings. Of course, Norway has challenges in the area of human rights, of course, Norway is not a perfect country that has absolutely everything to shine and shine. However, when Norway is about to stand up to school and be challenged by human rights by countries that either have a very relaxed relationship with human rights or which simply look at fundamental human rights, such as the right to express themselves freely or the right to choose their political leaders, such as weeds that need to be closed down, such hearings become the complete slogan. Discussing human rights can also be a complicated exercise here at home. We are living in a time when more and more good intentions seem to end with right-wing attachment in laws and regulations. There is reason to tread gently on the brake. There is also reason to warn against inflation in human rights. To regard the political, civil, economic, cultural and social rights as an indivisible whole is something to which the Progress Party is critical – at least when it comes to the international landscape. This could lead to repressive regimes, as we've seen with e.g. Cuba, may hide from criticism of the way the regime scalls and elections with civil and political rights — focusing on their prioritisation of the implementation of social rights instead. The first 21 articles of the UN Declaration of Human Rights are based on so-called negative rights. Compliance does not involve claims on others to give up, nor does it cost anything to pay for them. While the first 21 articles cover political and civil rights, they cover cultural, economic and social rights. The UN Declaration of Human Rights is known as a compromise between East and West – between Right and Left – and a compromise between different ideologies. I find this a suitable opportunity to think a little philosophically, to make us stop and stay a little bit. There is a marked difference between negative and positive rights, and it is actually important to dry out asking the question whether you can rank the rights and not necessarily view the entire package of human rights as an indivisible whole. Norwegian society is based on a set of basic values. Among these is the right to express oneself freely, the right to participate in the political work – who chooses and as a candidate – the right to choose who you want to share your life with, the right to choose your own religion, or to dissociate all religions, and the right to determine your own life and body. All of this is building blocks in the valuable core wall of Norwegian society. We cannot give up these basic values when we move beyond the borders of Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that there will be a stronger focus on integrating work on human rights more strongly into development policy. We got this caught for a while back when Uganda was going to impose the death penalty for homophobia. We also meet this challenge in many other places with Norwegian aid. I would like to remind you that it is Norwegian taxpayers' money that we send from us when we provide assistance. That we have a conscious relationship with how the money is spent and what systems the money is legitimizing is just fair and fair. Freedom House publishes every year an overview of all the countries of knowledge in terms of the situation of political and civil rights. In many ways and in many places in the world, progress has been made, but it is a reality that there has been a main rest in the Middle East countries, with the exception of Israel, which still appears to be the exception of the rule in the region. That there is almost zero progress in human rights in the so-called Muslim countries is something we have to deal with. For us, women's rights are as obvious as men's rights. It's not like that in every country. Women’s rights are either absent or under strong pressure in some countries, and this is not least the situation in the so-called Muslim countries. It is also the most difficult situation in these countries for homosexuals, lesbians and transsexuals, but not just there: even in our largest neighbouring country, these rights are threatened. If we add the review to Freedom House next to the list of member states of the UN Human Rights Council, a majority of members are defined as not free or only partially free country. The free countries, with their 20 out of 47 members, represent a minority in the Council. That is my conclusion, but it should be thought-provoking for others, too, not the Progress Party, to look at this. It's for thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e966	As the representative of Norheim just said, it is more than 15 years since Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson, on behalf of the Government of Bondevik, presented a comprehensive report on how Norway is to promote human rights. It was St.meld. No 21 for 1999-2000, Human World Centre. It also presented a detailed action plan with around 100 actions to strengthen Norwegian human rights policy. It was therefore in place when last year the government issued a new communication providing up-to-date information on developments in the field of human rights and in Norwegian policy. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank both Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende for a good report and case spokesperson Trine Skei Grande for a good job in setting up the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. International action on human rights is a central task of both foreign and development policy. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to coordinate the measures better across policy areas. Only then can the effort on the different areas work in the same direction and be mutually reinforcing. In the message, the government highlights three areas that should be given special priority in the fight for human rights. The first is for the protection of the individual's freedom and right of consultation. Here stands the struggle for civil and political rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and unity and freedom of belief and life. This area is burnt. We have recently experienced Islamist terrorist acts against those who use freedom of expression in Europe, and pure executions of others threatening. Most of the sacrifices, however, do not exist in our continent. The individual's freedom and equal dishes are central to the draft struggle that is now being fought within the Muslim world. Such countries are often influenced by authoritarian regimes responsible for serious violations of human rights. But it doesn't have to be better if extreme Islamists take power. Rather, it could get worse. How to promote human rights in such countries is a major challenge. The answer is closely related to the development of real democracy and a rule of law that ensures that the law is equal to everyone. That battle must be landed its own people win. In the process, we can contribute to supporting human rights work, not least for human rights defenders, defend independent media and strengthen the right to education. The second priority area relates to the rule of law and legal certainty. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the message goes under the right to life. It's the fundamental right that comes out of respect for the dignity of the individual human being. In order to protect the rights of individuals, the development of the rule of law is entirely decisive. In practice, many countries are largely lacking in fair and effective legal systems. Many authoritarian regimes do not give room for independent courts, and they use the police to protect their own power position as much as the human rights of ordinary people. A number of the poorest countries in the world are also characterised by poor public administration in general. There we can provide assistance to strengthen the judiciary and the role of civil society watchkeeping. A third input area applies to equivalency and equal opportunities. Let me in that context highlight the dishes of women and children. Norway must be a driver in the fight against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination against men and women's and women's rights, indigenous peoples, people with disabilities and sexual minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e987	The communication on human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy is well read. I would like to thank you for a good message, and I would also like to thank Trine Skei Grande, who has done a good job as a spokesperson. There are few objects in the message which you can view as unbalanced. It also shows the comments of the Committee. Norway sees human rights high, and we all agree that it is an important work, both at home and in foreign and development policy, that we should continue to strengthen human rights. Although the speeches from the pulpit may have different angles today, there's no doubt that here we're basically together. I want to use some of my measured minutes today to talk about something that is on my heart. The message addresses health challenges. The message confirms that health is an end in itself and that health benefits contribute to the realisation and strengthening of more human rights rights. In order to improve people's health, a people must meet their basic needs. The most basic of all is safe access to safe food and clean water. Yeah, maybe there's no right that's so fundamental to living as the right to food and water. Without safe access to food and water, it's not possible to guarantee people a decent life. The human rights message refers to the World Food Programme, which confirms that hunger and malnutrition are the greatest health risks on a world-wide basis. A raising in Norway's food assistance will make a historic contribution to fulfilling people's right to food. It is probably not possible to help more people in a smarter way than to invest in international food security and food security. Today, 2.6 billion people are directly linked to agriculture and fisheries. Over 40 pst. of all the economically active are farmers. Even the World Bank has confirmed in a report that the most effective way to reduce poverty is to support small farmers in developing countries. Norway has to take the consequences of this. Norway must now initiate an international food production escalation plan. We need to use assistance actively to help produce enough food and at the same time reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We can do this with increased efforts on small-scale agricultural production. Thus, in the years to come, agricultural aid will receive a greater share of Norway’s aid. Most people will probably agree that adopting human rights is not enough. A man does not secure his people's rights only by adopting them. Few rights will be secured without the need for an adequate resource base in each country. This requires today’s developing countries to develop a resilient national industry and to generate productivity growth in agriculture. Norway must make sure that developing countries are given the freedom to protect and build up the skills needed to establish viable industry, agriculture and other business. At the same time, one has to make sure that economic growth does not just end up in the hands of a small part of the people of each country. The old myth that one had to allow greater inequalities between people to create growth is wrong. The societies that serve for a fair distribution are also the countries that get a viable growth and lift people out of poverty, so that one can realize several of their human rights. A joint committee points out that today's environmental choices will affect future generations' ability to realise their human rights. Climate change, the pressures on the resource base and the future demand for food and energy are the most fundamental challenges facing the world. If we are to be able to solve the environmental and climate challenges, we must give priority. The importance of ecosystems must be superior to increasing non-sustainable consumption and growth. Message raising women's rights and equality globally That's good, and it's necessary. Countries where only half of the people's rights are respected cannot be closed. Norway would not have been able to go on and on to the world's best country to live in if we didn't have a society that's come a long way in terms of equality. Equality is an area where Norway has a lot of experience, and we also need to make use of it in the aid policy. Putting into practice the abilities, commitment and labour of the whole people can never fail. Norway needs to do everything in its power to secure its women's basic dishes both in war and conflict countries, and in peaceful countries where women are systematically held down. The Central Party itself runs an aid project in Tanzania. A central part of the project is to inform both women and men about the innate dishes that women in the country also have. Only to confirm that one has the rightest people to take for granted has given these women increased self-confidence and boosted life. This makes me optimistic about what Norwegian assistance can contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1017	It may be on the side of normal curfew to give completely unmotivated brilliance, but this is a very good big message – I will say that. It is quite certain that many skilled officials and women in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made her, but it may also be that the Foreign Minister and the rest of the political leadership have made a positive contribution. It's a good thing that we can formulate policies in such a consistent and good way. I also found this setting to show a lot of unity. There are some basic questions that are not in agreement, but in the big image they are smaller than the big things that are in agreement. So I'm going to use a slightly different input for most of my post. The problem of Norwegian human rights policy is not about disunity about the policy itself, but about certain aspects of the practice of him in reality, and then there are three aspects that I think are important. The first one has something to do with the message and the setting, and that's perhaps at the point I'm actually most critical. It has been picked up by several speakers. The different human rights that are often categorized as civil, political, cultural, social and economic are part of a community, not a structure, because different aspects of society are interrelated, and when it comes to all known breakthroughs for justice I know, it has been an interaction between them. Let me exemplify. It is not as some claim, that economic and social rights, equality, the development of rights related to health, etc. is self-inflicted in the world. They have usually been driven by people who have had freedom of organisation, freedom of expression, freedom of faith, the ability to push through and put power behind their demands and by creating smoother distribution, more jobs, more security for more and more economic rights – that is, civil and political have supported under economic conditions. But, of course, the opposite is true: where one has managed to make significant progress, it has also been a necessary part of the civil and political progress – that education applies to everyone, that health, as Marit Nybakk said, is at such a level that most can survive and grow up. So it's an integrated interaction. These include: what is the history behind the great advances in human rights that have been made in Norway – an interaction between a wide range of different types of dishes. And that's also what's history behind the huge advances in recent times that we can see in some countries around the world. Brazil is an example. Perhaps no country has had more impressive economic progress in the last 20–25 years than Brazil – 25pst. was under the poverty line in 1990, 3 p.m. today. But history about it is also closely linked to a political breakthrough, where there was freedom of expression, where people could strike, where politicians could make choices, where the media was released, in an interaction between great economic and health progress. The second is how we face the dilemma in reality with our policies. That is the real challenge of Norwegian human rights policy. It's the one that turns out when we're going to try to repair our relationship with China and get a visit by a Tibetan leader. It's the one that turns out when the blogger Raif Badawi gets whipped and we have to decide how to handle it. That's what we're meeting in connection with the involvement of Norwegian companies abroad, that's what we're showing when we're weighing how much human rights means, and how much resources we're actually spending on doing something with that in countries we're engaged in. I'm absolutely against the line that Norway should not be in a land that violates human rights. It is clear that we must be there, just like countries that grossly violate human rights, must be part of the UN Human Rights Council if it is to make sense. But if we're willing to take advantage of incentives, put power behind the demands in decisive situations – it's the biggest human rights debate. My third point is that I'm going to throw as a challenge to the government: the world needs a lot of leaders in a number of major human rights situations that are now under seal. Let me just say one thing: the refugee disaster we see is under seal in Syria, the situation in the Mediterranean. Leaders in global human rights work even when it's a bit tough – we really need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1032	First, I would like to thank the Committee for what I have experienced as a very good and substantive debate with many good and important input. Thanks also to the case rapporteur, who has received the message in port. The Government’s communication on human rights is central to Norway’s international work. I am pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence supports the government's initiative to strengthen human rights in foreign and development policy. Human rights are the very basis – on which several representatives have been involved – for freedom, justice and peace in the world. They protect against abuse of power and are crucial to democracy. Human rights are, as many people have, the canary in the mine. If they fade, show signs of disease, there's danger on the move. History shows that we cannot take basic universal values and norms for given. They are irresistible and hard to fight and still have to be defended. Civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights are mutually dependent on and reinforce each other. Freedom of expression, freedom of the press and assembly are often prerequisites for other rights, such as the right to education, the right to food and healthcare. Human rights champions stand up for good governance based on equivalency and equal opportunities in society, without the corruption and marginalisation of vulnerable groups. They cannot do this without freedom of expression. Therefore, the different rights cannot be separated. The Storting Message uses this in its structure and in its message. Rights under special pressure are being lifted. We are therefore developing a strategy to promote freedom of expression, freedom of the press and independent media – an area of intervention that the Committee also emphasises in its position. It is the responsibility of the State to protect human rights and prevent discrimination, but real will or ability is often lacking. Lack of respect for human rights is a violation of individuals, hinders social development and has negative consequences locally, nationally and internationally. Many of the serious crises in the world today are linked to serious and systematic violations of human rights. From this point of view, we must recognise that the international system for the promotion and protection of human rights is not strong enough. The government will strengthen the place of human rights in the functioning of the UN. Human rights are one of three important and decisive pillars of the work of the United Nations. Norway shall be among those who lead the UN to put human rights first in practice. For effective implementation, this must be reflected over time in management tools and in the UN budgets. A future-oriented development policy shall contribute to the realisation of human rights. International human rights obligations shall be the basis of our cooperation and dialogue. Lack of willingness to live up to human rights will have consequences for the scale and arrangements of the long-term work and partnership we have with countries around the world. Norway also has a special responsibility to promote human rights and democracy in countries where Norwegian companies have major interests. This is followed up by a separate action plan. Respect for human rights is a foreign policy objective in itself and a means of sustainable development and security in the world. The Government will make targeted and solid contributions to strengthen the work of human rights internationally. Cooperation with civil society will be central. The Communication on Human Rights provides clear guidance for a coherent policy that integrates the promotion of human rights into all work at global, regional and bilateral levels. I see the Committee's comments in the various thematic areas of action set out in the Communication as very constructive and as a clear support for increased Norwegian action in the field of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1064	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good contribution, and he gives us a good overview of how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and he himself is working on human rights. Norway was the other country in the world that passed a marriage law for homosexuals, and I think that gives us a special obligation to address the situation of homofiles even though in many international contexts it is quite controversial. My question is how does the Minister of Foreign Affairs address the rights of homosexuals in the international arenas where he acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1073	I am pleased that Huitfeldt's representative raised this question. In fact, we have seen that in some countries there has been a setback in the situation of homosexuals and sexual minorities. This should not be believed to happen in the 21st century, and I am using the opportunities I have to address LHBT issues not least in those countries where we see that sexual minorities are not treated in line with what are human rights. In Norway, in recent decades, we have both implemented national legislation and seen a major change in vision also in Norway. Tolerance is important, and not least this should also be reflected in the agenda we have internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1080	Norway has an action plan for Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Of course, it is about preventing violence against women in war, but it is actually also about helping to ensure that women are involved in building peace is part of the development of society. There are also fundamental human rights, and I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that this action plan is also part of the MR initiative, not to say the reverse, that human rights action is also linked to this action plan for women, peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1085	I could have said yes, and then the answer ended there, but I think the representative might want me to fill in a little bit more. The answer is yes, and through that action plan we have also made it clear that Norway wants to continue to have a leading role in terms of women, peace and security. Last Thursday and Friday last week, we agreed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of South Africa, and the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs was very supportive of it, that we should work to build a pool of women's peace brokers in cooperation with South Africa. In a short time we have had our own course in Norway and a conference for women peacemakers, and I think that peace processes should be sustainable, women and civil society must also be part of these processes. We've seen that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1090	According to the World Food Programme, diet and nutrition are the highest global health risks — greater than HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined. Every fourth child under the age of five has been permanently injured as a result of malnutrition. They miss the right to the life they could have. In order to give everyone the right to food, access to food and the possibility of food production need to be increased by better vulnerable groups. The red-green government had a strong commitment to this and was among other things. strong drivers to put in place the UN Guidelines for Agriculture and Fisheries. This exposure is now down. I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs: what will he do to increase his commitment and ensure that vulnerable groups are given a better right to food and thus also access other human rights when nutrition is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1097	With regard to the supply of food and the challenges we face when the world is likely to go from seven billion to ten billion people by 2050, there needs to be a completely different policy in place to ensure increased food production in the world. I agree with a lot of what Mr. Navarsete says, with one exception, that there should be a little less power now around the fact that food and access to clean drinking water is absolutely essential to humanity, not least now in the preparation of the new sustainability targets by 2030, which are to replace the Millennium Goals. I am not familiar with that presentation. When we are going to work to eliminate all extreme poverty by 2030, we do not abolish it without children, adults – all – having access to food and clean drinking water.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1104	I'll try two questions, and I'll do one for a yes or no question. Is it not important for Norway to sweep at its own door in order to have external authority in the field of human rights in relation to other countries? It is a short yes or no question, which I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees with me. Then I want to promote women's rights, because we see that in many ways they have a negative development around the world right now – with countries that pass laws that go in the wrong direction, which accept rape in marriage, for example. We see the threat that many girls today experience – at the anniversary of Boko Haram's abduction of girls, which provides a gloomy perspective for women's rights internationally. The second question, which can well be answered with yes or no, is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share these concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1113	The representative Skei Grande is unfortunately right in saying that the situation for many girls and women in the world is gloomy, especially for those who live in areas of war and conflict, but also in some countries where we have seen some positive developments in women and girls' rights, but where we now see that there is a decline. Then we have areas where we see that this is progress – for example: Afghanistan, where almost no girl went to school in 2001. Now over four million girls go to school there. It shows that it's useful. The training effort, which we very much agree on, is essentially not least for marginalised groups, but also for girls, so that they are a good basis. The communication, which is the first in 15 years in terms of human rights in foreign and development policy, shows that we are taking this seriously, and I believe that Norway also has a robust national stand on human rights. We have nothing to be ashamed of – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1122	For the record, I have to correct an incursion first. There is a note about Western Sahara, which SV should be in the setting. - Then it's done. So I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, like representatives from the Swedish Labour Party and the Right, argued very strongly to see the different human rights as an indivisible whole and that they are linked and influenced by each other, while the representative from the Progress Party argued that the contrary – that we should not do it, that there is a real difference – and have it in common with some countries in the world that also argue that one type of justice is important, while the other is a Western invention, but on the contrary: the economic and social rights are important, but not the others. So my question is, would it be a good thing if we were to start dividing human rights by scaling and ranking them according to how important they are, or would it only create greater problems in promoting justice in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1129	What I think has been very good about the debate here today is that it shows, in my opinion, that there is a total amount of money behind us now putting human rights more clearly on the agenda – that Norway also takes a clearer role in the UN, where, unfortunately, the third pillar has been down-priority. We are now spending more money on the UN's human rights work. It's in the budget. That's the government's policy. I believe that political rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and not least freedom of the press, are also necessary prerequisites for pointing out, as I said in my speech, situations of economic and social rights which are not the way they should be. Among other things, LHBT was mentioned. But it's also true that if you're going to get economic growth, value creation, a good distribution, then there are once again assumptions for the second. So this is related. I feel there is a broad consensus on that in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1134	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1138	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good job with this message, and there was also a great deal of interest among all those who were invited to hearings in Stortinget. Like the case rapporteur and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I belong to a political generation that experienced great progress in international politics in the 1990s. The dictatorships fell in Latin America, the Berlin Wall fell, the apartheid regime in South Africa fell, and we experienced a great deal of optimism. If we look at many of these human rights, we see that political freedom in particular. Latin America has also made great economic and social progress. But we also see, as more people in this room have been in this room, a retreat on human rights in some countries. We see in many countries in the Middle East that when leaders are no longer able to deliver economic progress to their inhabitants and lose power, they lean on religious leadership and use the national ideal of men almost in contrast to a Western ideal of equality. That is why we are seeing in a number of countries in the Middle East, including the United States and Japan. in Iraq, that the grandchildren have sometimes read worse than their own grandmothers, because there has been backsliding in this area. We see a parallel to this in terms of gay rights in our neighbouring country. While this was a non-themed issue some years ago when Norway passed the marriage law, we see that homophilis is now being used as a contrast to such a national man-sideal, and attacks on homosexuals in too many Eastern European countries are being viewed as legitimate. Here I believe that Norway has a very special responsibility to promote equality both for women and for homosexuals. There are many countries that have not come as far in democracy as we do. But what is an important first step is to protect freedom of expression, freedom fighters in other countries and to establish a state of law. I believe that Norwegian foreign policy must to a large extent aim at enabling countries to build their own country of law in order to safeguard individual rights. The board of Vegar Solhjell was interested in something very important in his post. He said that it meant something about how human rights were weighted in relation to other foreign policy considerations. In the weighting he suggested that it was about putting power behind the requirements and having incentives. I agree in part with that. But I must also say that progress in these areas is also about the willingness not only to use power but also the will to dialogue with those with whom we disagree, whether it is about the situation in Iran, how many additional forces are against the agreement that has now been reached – I believe that dialogue leads to progress – or about the situation in Cuba, how many think it is wrong to cooperate with Cuba on the part of the Americans, because it is a society that has largely no democracy. I believe that dialogue also with those with whom we disagree leads to progress. The representative from the Right had a very good speech on the role and responsibilities of business in human rights. I would also like to underline the need for a decent working life and to enable employees to fight for their rights – free negotiating rights. It is often the case that the trade movement in many dictatorships constitutes an organized unit that can stand in a kind of counterpower of a power apparatus. Therefore, I would like to stress the eight core conventions of the ILO and that Norway is driving this work. We have an action room in Norway that we have a responsibility to use. Firstly, we have an obligation to respect human rights ourselves through treaties; secondly, human rights are a central basis of value for all political Norway; and thirdly, a stable international legal order is very important for Norway as a small country. Action on human rights is a first priority for Norway — freedom of expression and independent media as well. There are courageous people around the world who risk their lives every day to make the Universal Declaration of Human Rights a reality. We have a responsibility to support these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1155	This is an important message. ‘Respect for human rights is an objective, but also a means of achieving sustainable development and security’ — that is good. [[...]] Human rights are something we easily take for granted, we who live in Norway, but this is not too much of the world's population, and when others look at us with a critical look, we see that there is also a job to do here at home. As an example, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, ECRI, for approx. two months ago, its fifth report on Norway published. Much is positive, but the Commission also points out important improvement points, such as more systematic efforts to combat the spread of racist opinions on the Internet and to do more to correct the lack of assistance for immigrants in terms of jobs and education. In addition, ECRI points out that victims of discrimination do not receive sufficient help to secure their rights in the Norwegian legal system. If we are to play a role in promoting human rights internationally, we must also show that we take seriously the recommendations of the international human rights organisations. Otherwise, we can easily meet claims of double standards and weaken our ability to influence human rights in a positive direction in countries where there is even more need than here. Some regimes use every opportunity to focus elsewhere than on themselves. That is not least what we see in the debates we have in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Lack of respect for human rights also concerns us in another and unfortunately more alarming way of time. Respect for human rights is on the waving front on our own continent. It also affects our own safety. The government raises many important issues in this message, which could individually be the subject of a major debate. But as a member of the European Council's delegation to the Council of Europe, I would like to highlight the positive fact that the Government of the message attaches great importance to strengthening the work of the Council of Europe on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. At the same time, when the government says that there is a need for strengthening, it is a recognition that the issues raised by the Council of Europe do not always receive sufficient attention, nor at home. With the unstable situation we currently have in parts of Europe, it is more important than ever to support this work. Many people know little about the Council of Europe, but it is our own European Human Rights Organisation, founded in 1949 by ten countries, including Norway. The curtain was World War II, the so far darkest chapter in Europe's history, with genocide and other widespread violations of human rights. Today, the organisation has 47 member countries, all of Europe's countries except Belarus, and is the only pan-European organisation we have. The minimum requirement for becoming a member is a minimum of will for democracy, with an agreed and self-committed obligation to change the constitution, the legal system, electoral laws, the introduction of freedom of the press and the exercise of minority rights. These are demanding processes in countries without democratic traditions, but the Council of Europe contributes with its expertise, and a monitoring system puts pressure on change. Unfortunately, not all countries are equally good at following up. One example is Azerbaijan, which spends more energy explaining human rights violations than they spend cleaning up. They have just had the presidency of the Council of Europe, and many hoped that it would lead to improvements, but the situation for journalists and other human rights defenders was even worse if possible than before. Nevertheless, being a member of the Council of Europe means a certain achievement for the authorities of the country. We therefore need to continue to use this in order to put pressure on the will to deliver. Ukraine is another example – a member of the Council of Europe for 20 years, without being close to achieving human rights, the rule of law and democracy. One of the biggest obstacles is that the country is permeated by corruption. Secretary-General Thorbjørn Jagland has been very clear that the threshold for Russia’s annexation of Crimea and warfare in the eastern parts of Ukraine could be much higher if Ukraine had been a democracy with high confidence in the population of the central powers. The lack of it now has consequences for security throughout Europe in a way that we have not seen since the cold days of war. The Council of Europe therefore needs more than ever, both in small and large terms, here at home and out. It is therefore positive that the government is adding up to increased involvement by the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1174	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1177	Today, the government and the foreign minister get a well-deserved reward for presenting the first 15-year human rights announcement. I'll join those who give it the rose. It implies a shift in pace towards the integration of human rights into all foreign and development policies. We are concerned that fundamental civil and political rights are increasingly being broken out of the world, but also in our neighbourhood in Europe. The situation with Russia's international annexation of Crimea and the aggression in Ukraine are taking war and conflict into our neighbourhoods, where the human rights situation is deteriorating. More than 20 years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the European continent is still divided. Parts of Eastern Europe, South Caucasus and Central Asia are governed by authoritarian regimes where human rights are not protected in line with international conventions. On the contrary, there have been worrying setbacks in these areas against the rule of law and established rights, in which freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press are restricted in several countries. Minorities are discriminated against and persecuted, human rights champions alike. They are threatened and not protected by the state. For more than 60 years, the EU has contributed to the promotion of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe, as reflected in the Nobel Peace Prize award in 2012. Norwegian EEA funds are Norway’s contribution to reducing social and economic disparities in Europe. They shall support the fundamental universal values, such as democracy, human rights, non-discrimination and equality. Norway uses these funds actively and will follow developments in the countries receiving them. Therefore, payments of EEA funds to Hungary have been withheld since May last year, due to clear breaches of the assumptions. The individual’s freedom and self-determination, the rule of law, legal certainty, equivalency, equal opportunities — all of this underpins Norway’s work on human rights. As the previous speaker pointed out, the European Convention on Human Rights provides the basis for strong legal protection in Europe. The EU, the Council of Europe and the OSCE have helped to promote legal protection in practice. It is important that Norway works to strengthen the work of the Council of Europe and the OSCE on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. There is little doubt that one of the main challenges is to ensure national respect for human rights. The rules of the game, through the UN and the Council of Europe, are in place, but the problem is that they are not being followed. Therefore, Norway must continue to make an active contribution to international efforts to protect and promote human rights. It is also important to ensure that our ambitions are followed up through the work of Norwegian NGOs and aid organisations. They are among our key development policy partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1194	This is not a desire to do the debate anymore, but to end it. As the rapporteur, I have to say it is very good that we reached such a consensus, and it is very good that the government made such a good announcement that it was possible to reach such a consensus. When I have school classes on visits, I use to say that it's unfair enough for everyone. It's just to find the one you want to fight. There's no shortage of it in the world. It's not here either. What's the challenge of this big message is that it's good, the council has a large and broad majority behind it in the Storting, but that's when the job starts. The previous message, presented by Hilde Frafjord Johnson 15 years ago, had a major impact both in Norway and internationally. I hope that this will have an equal impact on Norwegian foreign policy, on the human rights situation and on the focus of Norwegian policy on human rights in the future – because there is absolutely a need to strengthen, both nationally and internationally. The Council of State now has a strong mandate, and I hope he uses it so that, when we next deal with a report on human rights in the Grand Duchy, we can see that it has influenced the policy as much as Frafjord Johnson's message did 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1221	In the evening post on 11 March 2015 we could read about a 73-year-old man with hip fracture: he has been hospitalized for 15 days and has not received any nourishment. He has growing problems with swallowing. The woman gives him some yoghurt and coke every day, because she sees that the hospital food is untouched. The man's family has a lot to do at the hospital, but they're getting unclear answers. When the alarm finally goes and probe processing is started, it is too late. He's gone down 20 pounds and is undernourished. He is printed to the municipality, but dies 1.5 months later. The county doctor says that the man died as a result of a long-term system failure and has found that the hospital has violated its defence claim. Norwegian patients’ compensation has recognised responsibility in the case, and the hospital itself is now deeply regretting the event and, according to newspapers, has taken action to prevent similar events. Norwegian patient damages expert doctor concludes that the hospital did not implement the necessary measures and deliberately failed to secure the patient, with the result that he died. Now the incident is being investigated by Rome's police district because the relatives through their lawyer have asked for it. This is a very strong and sad thing. The reason why I'm taking it up is that the case is not unique. The leader of the Norwegian company for Clinical Nutrition, Øivind Irtun, states in the article of the Evening Post that several studies show that 30–50 pst. by older people over 70 years of age are undernourished when they are hospitalized. 70 pst. of which, when printed, has an even lower weight. A large Scandinavian study shows that hospital staff have gained a greater knowledge of nutrition in the last ten years, but it still shows that there is a widespread lack of interest and priorities in health care. Malnutrition among elderly sick people increases the risk of complications and increases mortality. It also reduces resistance to infections, worsens physical and mental function, reduces quality of life and delays convalescence. An undernourished person has up to three times as long in institutions as a well-nourished patient, depending on the degree of nutrition. Illness is the main cause of malnutrition, but the lack of knowledge, interest and attention among health professionals on nutrition status and needs is a significant contributing factor for nutritional status to be further aggravated during a hospital stay. We know that nutrition treatment in health services is often random, unstructured and deficient. There is often a lack of commitment on the part of the institution management, a lack of patient influence, a lack of knowledge of nutrition in all professions and unclear responsibilities and cooperation between different disciplines, as we see. The size has recently addressed annual reporting on quality and patient safety in the healthcare service. Nutrition is just about quality and patient safety. We have a health service that offers the most advanced treatments, and new technologies are being developed all the time. But then we fail at the most banal: the health services don't discover that the patient doesn't take in food. I would like the Council of State's response to the corresponding failure that was discovered at Aarhus, also in other hospitals or in hospitals, and what the government is doing to prevent this. In 2009, the Health Directorate provided national professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition. The guidelines provide recommendations and advice based on up-to-date knowledge. The guidelines are intended as a tool, and the target group is staff and leaders in both the specialist and primary care services. By implementing four simple actions, according to the Health Directorate’s guidelines, much will be won: Appreciating nutritional risk Providing patients at nutritional risk targeted nutrition treatment Demonstrating nutritional status and measures in the patient's journal and epicrisis Dissemination of evidence to the next level of care It's now six years since these guidelines came. The question is whether hospitals and hospitals have actually implemented these professional guidelines for nutrition. It helps little to use health resources to develop new circulars and guidelines if the healthcare system does not have a system to implement professional guidelines. According to the guidelines, all patients in hospitals shall be assessed for the nutritional risk at entry and then every week, or after another professionally justified individual scheme. All residents of the hospital/institution and persons enrolled in home care shall be assessed for the nutritional risk at the time of entry/decision and then every month, or after another professionally justified individual scheme. Persons at nutritional risk shall have an individual nutrition plan with evidence of nutritional status, needs, intake and measures. Nutrition in the final phase of life is an area of its own which is also referred to in the guidelines. If life expectancy is below 23 months, probe feeding or intravenous nutrition is usually not indicated. In my experience, it is in the usual hospitalisation space and the usual hospital population that the health care system fails most when it comes to nutrition. There is currently a lack of access to specialist expertise in the field of clinical nutrition in the specialist services, and in the primary care services this is often absent. There is a great need for more settings for clinical nutrition physiologists in both sectors. There is a significant need to increase the education element in nutrition, and in particular clinical nutrition, in the initial, further and further training of doctors and other health professionals. It is fundamental that healthcare providers and municipalities now need to ensure that nutrition becomes an integral part of treatment provision in healthcare services. I say we have a tendency to treat the diagnosis, not the patient. Follow-up of nutritional status must be part of the controller’s responsibility. Leiing anchoring and a defined division of responsibilities is a means of ensuring the quality and continuity of the nutrition treatment. Nutritional status and treatment documentation must be transferred when the patient is transferred to another care unit. Health professionals and municipalities must be responsible for providing adequate training for health professionals in the service before nutrition. Nutrition is an indisputable subject. Nevertheless, if the patient does not receive help to get the food, it is of little use if a proper composite diet is served. As a relative, I've seen for myself that this is where the system fails. It's in the last 20 centimeters it's going to fail the most, from the plate and glass on the table to the mouth and the stomach bag. Who helps the patient eat? Who is responsible for helping the patient or the health care provider get the water to the mouth or the food on the fork? Or as the family member said in the evening post, they started giving the patient coke and yoghurt because they saw that the food was untouched. The fact that health professionals are scattered from Norwegian hospitals in many places is, in my view, a trend that needs to turn around. It's about strengthening the crew that's around the patient there and then. The relatives of the man mentioned in the Evening Post, who died, strongly want one to focus on this problem in the Norwegian health system. They have reacted to the fact that supervision by the county doctor has not led to any corporate sanctions. They react to the fact that the supervisory authorities in substance argue against police investigation that the field of nutrition of elderly patients in hospitals and hospitals is an area where recommended guidelines are not rarely inadequately implemented, and that deviations from defence practices are therefore not considered as a significant deviation. I think this is quite strong to read. I understand that the Council of State and the party in this debate cannot go into a single matter, but I think it is important that the Storting is concerned with nutrition in health services, and my question is what the government will do to ensure that national professional guidelines are followed in health services, and that supervision is working well enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1272	The incident mentioned in the Evening Post is a sad matter. It shows the importance of good nutrition in the treatment and follow-up of patients after acute and chronic illness, and that food is an important part of a comprehensive provision of health and care. It is assumed that between 20 pst. and 50 pst. patients in hospitals and hospitals suffer from malnutrition. There is reason to believe that the condition is underdiagnosed in many people. Sub-nutrition increases the risk of complications, weakens resistance, exacerbates physical and cognitive function, delays convalescence and increases mortality. The monitoring and follow-up of nutritional status is essential for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition and malnutrition. The four-year commitment of the Health Authority between 2009 and 2012, on the supervision of services for the elderly, showed that there was a failure both in hospitals and in municipalities. Among other things, the Health Authority expressed concern that health businesses had not been more involved in ensuring that the national professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition were followed in the case of hip fracture patients, despite the fact that the Health Directorate has made it clear that all patients in the health care service should be given a nutritional assessment and that those at risk of malnutrition should have a nutritional plan. A previous study of hospital and hospital health professionals in the period 2004–2007 showed that only one fifth of patients and residents in hospitals and hospitals were shown to have their nutritional status. In 2012, health regions were assigned to ensure that evidence of nutritional status and the need for follow-up should be provided when the patient is discharged from the hospital or moved between treatment sites. It also showed that two out of three nursing homes had nutritional abnormalities. One main finding was that the services had not implemented practices to identify and assess the nutritional situation of the new users, and that the national, professional guideline was little known. The Health Authority considered that there was a risk that the elderly with nutritional problems were not caught by the service provider, and therefore they did not get the help they needed. Fortunately, supervision has led many hospitals to improve and change their work. A follow-up in 2013 showed that the procedures and follow-up of nutrition at the nursing homes have improved. A new study on food and meals was carried out in hospitals in March, where managers and health professionals participated. This study shows that nursing homes have improved in carrying out nutritional and weighing procedures. But still, only about half of the health professionals report having procedures for this. In June, the Patient Safety Programme Steering Group will decide whether to include nutrition as a new input into the Patient Safety Programme in safe hands 24-7. Food is about more than nutrition. For most people, meals are an important social event. Food and meals are taste, smell and experiences, culture, tradition and identity, and it is often company and community with others. Food has a major impact on the quality of life and on health, and on the ability to carry out daily life activities. The government places emphasis on culture, activity and well-being as central elements of a comprehensive care provision. Supply of nutritious food and positive experiences around the meal requires good cooperation across disciplines and sectors. The oversight of services to the elderly by the Health Inspectorate showed that there was insufficient training and competence on nutrition in municipalities. This coincides with the World Health Organisation’s conclusion after the review of nutrition work in Norway in 2012. Both managers and health professionals in municipalities report that they need more knowledge of nutrition work, in particular the assessment of nutritional status and the calculation of energy and nutrition needs. We need more knowledge and skills in healthcare to meet the challenges ahead. We have therefore strengthened the resources for raising the competence in the care service in the municipalities by 50 million. kr. These funds facilitate further basic, continuing and continuing training of personnel. The government has also announced the development of an action plan for recruitment, competence and professional development – the Competence Plan 2020 – to be presented in the context of proposals for the 2016 government budget. Project resources from the grant scheme Eligibility in nutrition for care services were first distributed in the autumn of 2011 and the scheme expires in 2015. These measures must be able to reach all staff in the care sector who need more competence in nutrition. Several municipalities have completed their projects and many are trying out ideas in practice. Many projects deal with everyday food and how to organize pleasant meals. Others have developed a comprehensive course on good nutrition practices, such as: the e-learning course from Bergen. The Directorate for Health is responsible for the development, dissemination and maintenance of national quality indicators. A quality indicator group for care services has been established to develop and recommend quality indicators in care, including: in the fields of nutrition and medicinal products. A pre-project report will be published during April 2015. The 2012 Food Manual covers the entire healthcare service. It is a practical tool to help provide adequate diets to all those receiving assistance and follow-up from the health care service. In the 2013 mission paper, health regions were commissioned to establish a nutrition strategy, such as: shall address interaction and guidance in municipalities on diet and nutrition. The Health Directorate has recently approved a national competence service for disease-related malnutrition at Oslo University Hospital. This service shall pool and build nutrition skills for use in healthcare throughout the country, and contribute to a more holistic quality of patient provision where nutrition is an integral part of medical treatment. Recent headlines in the media on serious cases of malnutrition during hospitalisation prompted the Knowledge Centre to look at the types of nutrition-related adverse event messages that have been notified to the notification system for adverse events in the specialist health service, the so-called notification system. On the basis of this, the Knowledge Centre has issued a learning note. The target group of the note is primarily health professionals who work closely with the patient, their managers and quality health professionals. During the period from 1 July 2012 to 31 December 2014, the notification scheme received 76 incidents, which described adverse events related to the nutrition of patients in hospitals. None of the messages were about patients who died as a result of the incident. The most serious incidents were mainly three types of situations: dietary imbalance and insulin administration in diabetic probe foods was administered in a nutritional probe that was erroneously placed in the trachea for prolonged repeated periods without intravenous food or that the diet used was inadequate The Knowledge Centre has concluded that there is a great need for nutrition to be given a more central place in the treatment of patients admitted to Norwegian hospitals. I expect that this important learning note will contribute to discussion on nutrition in bedrooms and departments, and that it can contribute to the introduction of locally adapted measures that can contribute to increased attention, increased knowledge, fewer adverse events and better nutrition for patients in hospitals. It is important that municipalities and health businesses work systematically in the field of nutrition and make targeted use of the tools and competences available to undernourished patients and patients at nutritional risk. I will follow developments closely. At the same time, it is important that nutrition is part of the education of health and care professionals and that adequate clinical nutrition physiologists are trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1329	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The answer can be expected, as many measures have been taken by the health authorities. Among other things, we have national and professional guidelines. Governments could show a lot of work going on, both through the mission document, through action plans for recruitment, through what the knowledge centre has done, etc. I notice that one of them assessed that nutrition should be included in the patient safety work, and that seems to me to be a good suggestion. One must regard this as an important measure to improve quality and patient safety. I agree with the Council, which says that many hospitals have improved, but my concern is that there is so much variation. When those who work there, even report that half of the hospitals do not have a system, that's not good enough. I think this area needs a special focus both when it comes to recruitment and when it comes to ensuring that the services actually implement the guidelines and the knowledge we have about the services. And what I'm coming back to, and I'm always amazed at, is how it can happen that a person can't get food in patients or live with all the knowledge we have in health care. I'm coming back to the base crew, which I want the state council to say something about. The second is a lease, because it's clear that, above all, when the knowledge we have is not implemented, it's a lease failure. Second, there's something about the basic crew. My own health professional. Have we dimensioned the service so that there are plenty of health workers around the patient who have time to sit down, because nutrition takes time? It's not just about nutrition, it's also about food. But it takes time, and we have to have a health care system that also has time for the patient so that he actually gets the food.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1338	I share the representative's impatience in getting better results in this area. It's an area that's had a lot of attention over a long time, and as I pointed out in my response to the interpellation, it's also done a lot in recent years to improve the situation. We don't lack guidelines, we don't lack knowledge of what's right. There are a number of sources to go to for those who want to know what is the right way to deal with these questions. It's the introduction of what everyone agrees on is right, which is the challenge. With regard to the measures taken, it is fortunately not that today we can say that they have not had an effect; on the contrary, the recent nation-wide surveys show that there has been an improvement compared to, among others, the situation. in 2007 related to the implementation of nutrient status and weighing procedures, even if there is still a good deal to be done. It is true that the patient safety programme scheme has a good effect because someone who is just working in such a systematic way to implement what is good practice in the business. The Programme Steering Group decides which new areas of action are to be included in the Programme. Early detection and treatment of blood poisoning and nutrition are recommended proposals from the Scientific Council of the Programme, which the Steering Group will decide on this year. So that's what the status of this is. I agree with the representative's view that this is also about leadership. That's what's a recurring issue when we look at both questions related to how a person manages the manning situation, and the way a person ensures that there is good enough competence in his own organisation. As for the culture and the attention that is around different critical issues, we are all the way back to leadership. We are now working systematically in that area to see how we can increase the management competence of municipal health and care services, and the follow-up to this work needs to come back to the main health service message, which is soon to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1353	I would first like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe, who once again comes up with an interview on an unusually important topic. I have to say once again that it takes time for new knowledge to be implemented. Although we have adopted national guidelines, that is not enough. Now I don't want to spend time repeating a lot of what has been said well both by Kjersti Toppe and by the Minister of Health. But I want to bring out what we experienced yesterday, when the committee was visiting the Mangler Home and the Desert Home. It was incredibly happy to see. I have a long period of speed from local policy, where we were to ‘outsource’ everything that was hot cooking to release resources for patient treatment – but that was the opposite. Here it was about demented patients, who experienced joy by being activated by preparing the food, knowing the smell, being present and getting the food, so now they're going to introduce that they get such a meal every single day on both of the two homes. I think that's also the trend when I'm around visiting hospitals around the country, that the food has been given a new place in the hospitals, so that it is locally prepared for the benefit of the patients. I also asked the head of the hospital in Oslo about the routines they had on nutrition, and then he said that the Municipality of Oslo has now systematically implemented for all new patients that the nutritional status is being assessed, but also the medicines. So it's nice that this is being implemented in many places, at least, and they're doing it in Oslo, I guess they're also able to make changes elsewhere. But we who have the overall responsibility must constantly push on and make sure that good tools are developed so that we can learn from each other. Now the Council of State also mentioned an attempt that has been in Bergen to develop new food products. These include: cooperation between the municipality of Bergen and nutrition specialists and TINE to create a drink that has the proper nutrition in itself, but which is also easier to absorb when you may no longer have teeth, or you have dryness in your mouth. So when it comes to developing good nutritional products, it's important to get more innovation in that area as well. It can help. Then I also asked the head of the hospital: what about the resident? No, it's a challenge. Now they have short-term places, so they can bring them in there to get them evaluated, but providing follow-up through home care and home care becomes a challenge. There we have – once again – knowledge of how to organise, but following it up in practice also became a new challenge. To the hospital: I fully agree with the representative Kjersti Toppe, I think she used the word ‘banal’ in terms of spending so much resources on specialised medical treatment, but we don’t have systems to ensure that patients – and then it’s not just about the elderly, it’s all patients – have enough nutrition in them, so they get the effect they want from the treatment they get. I've been to a hospital myself and experienced it, and it seems like it's very divided into sectors. The representative Kjersti Toppe referred to it with the diagnostic focus, and I think the hospitals might have an even bigger job to do than the primary health care. So, in conclusion, I fully agree that we need to focus on the fact that this has to be part of education, and I think it might also be wise to get it into the context of patient safety in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1370	I would also like to thank the interpellant who addresses a very important issue. It's basically paradoxical that while we see a severe increase in obesity surgery, we experience that between 20 and 50 pst. of patients in Norwegian hospitals and hospitals suffer from malnutrition. As the representative Toppe himself says, this is often about the last centimeters from the patient's plate and into the patient's mouth. Food is the best medicine, but it's also going wrong here whether you get too much or too little. It's a familiar case that the appetite goes down with age. At the same time, both mental and drug abuse affects appetite. Many of our medicines affect both metabolism and appetite. It's a challenge at all to get enough nutrition for many. In very many cases it is about health professionals looking at the needs and having time to follow up. It's about good systems, good quality of service and good management. It sounds like we're in this room in agreement on the problem and the challenges. It is important that one also in healthcare is concerned about the issue. It helps little with modern medicine and surgery if you don't take care that patients get enough nutrition. It'll be like in the transport sector – it's always better to build new roads than to take care of the roads we've already built. Life - style and appetite are closely linked, and therefore access to healthy and nutritious foods is important. As mentioned earlier, parts of the Health Committee visited the nursing homes of Desert and Manglerud yesterday. Both institutions specialise in demented residents. It was very inspiring to see how they have made cooking a common activity. I think everyone was touched by hearing the potato song carried by a resident who eagerly and with a safe hand peeled potatoes. I was told that when she moved into this home, she had poor flair and was very enclosed. But potato peeling was something she had done a lot of in life, and there was something she liked to do. The employees could also tell us that the days the residents made food together, they ate better. Weak nutritional status is, as is known, a common condition of demented persons. Such small grips can help some, but not all, but this story shows that by thinking differently and newly, we can achieve a lot with small grips. Some, however, are so sick that they cannot eat enough. For those unable to take up nutrition, supply of food drinks and parenteral nutrition is essential. Poor nutritional status affects many of the body’s functions, not least the immune system. It should therefore be believed that this was a matter of concern in the healthcare system. Studies from the past show that this is not always the case. In the past, health surveillance has shown concern about how this is being followed up. Fortunately, it is now reported that several follow the nutrition guide, which should have been a matter of course. Nevertheless, we see that it fails a little too often. Governments point out that health care needs more knowledge and competence. Happily, this will be followed up with increased appropriations. This is about seeing the whole patient, which is easily forgotten in an increasingly specialised healthcare service. The value of good care and the human factor can never be replaced by modern methods and advanced surgery. However, to ensure that good nutrition, perhaps the most basic care factor, is maintained, it is probably the way to go better education, better quality and more attention. In this respect, this interpellation is a good tool, the Council's response is the same. If we achieve that healthcare follows already adopted guidelines and recommendations, we will get a good deal on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1389	Like several of my great colleagues, let me thank the interpellant for bringing an important matter under debate here in the national parliament of the country. Let me also start by saying that the Progress Party has for a number of years highlighted the need to strengthen both health institutions and care for the elderly in general, and we have raised the issue of nutrition, among others. in the context of the consideration of tomorrow's care. Linked to the treatment of this, the Progress Party proposed a number of measures to which we unfortunately did not agree – among other things. around just the interpellant, which is to prevent the development of malnutrition in the elderly at health institutions. We noted that many doctors, nurses and health professionals do not have sufficient knowledge of nutrition and that access to nutrition skills is much lower in Norway than in countries with which it is natural to compare. And so it still is. This is now apparent in the new public health report that has recently come from the government to the Stortinget. Unfortunately, the previous public health report — from the red-green government — did not address challenges related to the older population. As part of the Competence Plan 2015, municipalities have been able to seek funding for empowerment in nutrition in the care service. The aim of this is to recruit several annual works with relevant vocational training. Sufficient competence is a key word in the issues of nutrition. Greater professional scope will also benefit the residents of the institution, as well as the fact that several annual works could reduce more stress factors for employees. We can't just talk about hot hands in the care of the elderly, although of course they're important. I still think we're well served to also focus attention on the wise heads. Therefore, I am pleased that the Health Directorate has appointed four national expert councils from 2015 on public health and prevention. Here is both nutrition and physical activity among the main areas of activity. This, together with the Competence Plan 2015, could help us to focus more on nutrition – on misnutrition, on malnutrition and, fortunately, also on well-being. Having a appetite means that what you are serving can be experienced as tempting. Therefore, the wise heads and warm hands of health institutions must facilitate the good meal and the experience around it. Food is not just about something you have to have to live, but the frame around the meal can also affect the individual's appetite. Therefore, it is good to see when employees at the institutions prepare the little extra around meals for the elderly and sick. It takes so little to make a daily meal more: a cloth, a living light and a little muffled background music – and would like employees to also occasionally have time and opportunity to eat with the residents, for example. as we have seen it related to the Danish Lotte model. This improves the framework and experience of the meal in a way that can ensure that residents can both get more, enough and proper nutrition, and also get the joy of experiencing meals as highlights in everyday life. Then we'll be on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1412	I also want to put myself in the line of those who thank the representative Toppe, who addresses something as central as system failure over a long period of time. Because this is about system failure. Health workers often have too little time and knowledge to handle malnutrition in the elderly, and not least to prevent this both in hospitals, in home care and in institutions in the municipalities. Malnutrition in the elderly has been a problem over time. The figures are almost unchanged over time, both before and after the Health Directorate issued its 2009 guidelines on how to detect and treat elderly people at risk of being undernourished. That's the really four-way point the Health Directorate focuses on in its guidelines. It's to find out who's in the risk zone, it's to document what they see, it's to come up with measures, and it's not least to record it – it should just be missing. Then it's spreading what you see, to the next level, so that more follow up. One would think that this was really part of the usual procedure, like everything else in health. Nevertheless, these four points are difficult enough. I think there are many answers to that. One is that we are little good in Norwegian health care to document deviations when we have not done what we are going to do, the other is that we struggle with journaling and do not have good enough ICT systems to transfer between the different levels. Nevertheless, I and the Christian People's Party think that the most difficult thing is to discover the one who is undernourished, and perhaps the most difficult to discover early enough – while the older one may still live at home, before he falls and breaks his lower neck, before he comes to the hospital or institution. It is then important that the knowledge of discovery is available at home, and that these guidelines are implemented in a way that allows them to live by. We know that it's hard to intervene at home. But we also see that it can be in institutions and hospitals. In the institutions we often talk about ‘wanting’ – I wish we could also talk about ‘wanning food’ and ‘wanning meals’ for the residents. They often get a menu: choose between these three. If you don't have the appetite or want to get some of what you're used to with old, good culture food, then it's hard to recover. We think – and I think – that food is something more; it's the use of all senses; it's the use of community; it's the use of tradition and culture. But it's also about knowledge about what food does to the body, both mentally and physically. Therefore, the Norwegian health system should focus on this. No one has mentioned a measure that I think is a simple measure, but which I think may have much to say in Norwegian care for the elderly. There are low-threshold and daily meals, more and more centrally, because then we might be able to discover those who are struggling to eat, earlier. But I also believe that when it comes to action, we must use the non-profit sector. When I was the rapporteur myself, I felt that a congregation made Saturday bread for those who lived in an institution, and for those who were at home. That's how you continued to have relationships even if you had come to an institution. It was gold worth to the municipality, but it was most valuable to the resident who got to meet his friends again and got the food that was needed. I experienced the same thing when I was visiting Narvik. Older people who were up and driving a car traveled around and delivered food to their friends and ate together with them, and made sure that the food was taken in the 20 centimeters that were needed. Here we have to think creatively, but most of all we have to discover, document and pass on what we see, so that we can get in with good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1429	First, thank you to the representative, Kjersti Toppe, who addresses an important topic. I will continue where the representative Olaug Bollestad concluded, with the efforts and opportunities of volunteers. I myself am the head of a volunteer centre at Gjøvik, where they serve dinner for between 60 and 100 people every Wednesday. They get help from high school students, who are involved in organizing, making and serving food. It's also a good arena for bringing together different generations. I also know that the council has been visiting there and dancing with the seniors. Combustion is also part of nutrition, and important to create some of the appetite we're talking about. It's a little trendy to talk about the short trip and even the ureaty food, and maybe that's something we should start talking about in the institution kitchen too. It makes space and the opportunities for volunteers to contribute even more, and there are many who will contribute. There has also been talk about hospital food and nutrition in hospitals. I myself have experience as a relative, and I must boast, for example. The Rikshospital, which now establishes more and more mini kitchens in the bed rooms, where the patients who can walk themselves can supply themselves at their own discretion. Facilitating it – there are also staff who contribute to serving food and creating some of the joy at food – I think that one of our biggest hospitals is an important change of pace. So the systematics that the representative Bollestad was in on, that competence, I think, to a large extent. One of the challenges we face, and which has been little debated here, is the patient's will, the employee's participation and the interpretation of the term 'force'. There are some employees who do not contribute as they could, by apologizing with the coercive concept – that they cannot force anyone to eat. But it's clear you can tempt someone to eat! It might be part of the debate that we rarely go into, and that we need to bring the employees more into. It is the competence it is particularly important for management to contribute. For the Left, we talk about early intervention and prevention. In the context of nutrition, we believe that the role of health centres is central, along with the volunteer centres. Encouraging nutrition and nutrition skills is a role that we need to cultivate for the health centres in the future, where there is still something to be done in terms of acquiring both capacity and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1442	Thank you to everyone who has spoken. There have been very many good recordings, and one has taken up important problem settings. This with volunteers I totally agree with, and I know that in other countries there is more system that voluntary ideas are also involved in hospitals and help in the food situation. It has some experience with Norway as well, so it is absolutely worth developing further. One thing I notice is that there's not so much talk about, which is very important, is this with the relatives, because the case that came up also showed that the relatives were not taken seriously. They had asked, but had received unclear answers, and they tried to feed the patient themselves. So that case also shows that we have a health care system that doesn't take them seriously enough – at least we have cases that show that the relatives aren't being heard. It's also a very important part of this problem. Food is not just about nutrition, but deeply it's about dignity. It is at least I come to this: it is about dignity. I want this interpellation to mean something, that it has consequences for how this area is followed up by the government. I would suggest that one be clear about this in the annual reports on quality and patient safety, and that it is still pointed out in the health professionals’ mission papers that implementing the guidelines is a responsibility for leadership. And I very much hope that there will be an area of patient safety work, because then a very clear work that I believe can also have an effect on health services, and that recruitment in view of such competence will be an important part of the alerting case of recruitment to health and care services. Nutritional competence is directly related, but good medical staff in hospitals is also important. When it comes to health professionals, I think that with the previous committee, we were visiting Health South-East, who said that they had lost 1,600 health professionals in a few years, without knowing why. Clearly, it is not easier for health professionals to disappear gradually from the patient-related work. The last thing that has to happen, I think, is better supervision, so that the hospitals in the municipalities that don't implement professional guidelines need to know about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1458	I would like to thank you for an important and good debate that also shows the complexity and scope of this issue. One has been in this debate in most of the perspectives that this is about. Of course, it's about meals like a social arena, where one not only gets the necessary nutrition, but where one also gets the experience, the well-being and gets to be with others. For most of us, one of the meals during the day is a small highlight in everyday life. It is very much about making arrangements to have a good meal even if you are in a hospital, an institution or need assistance at home. This is also about failure, system failure, lack of management, lack of competence, which not only addresses issues related to nutrition but also affects very many other areas related to the quality of our services. It is also about the work on patient safety and quality, about relatives who are not being heard, which is, of course, a major problem when we look at a number of issues where our services have gone wrong. This is a question that needs to be met in many areas, and therefore there is no single answer. One must work systematically with all that is in many ways the theme of our work to increase the quality and capacity of municipal care services, and one must also work with the quality and development of our hospitals. That's why it's about competence. It's about leadership. It's about the possibilities of taking advantage of the space that is, and it's about cooperating with the voluntary and non-profit sector. So it's important to take into account that this is a topic that has been up and that has been working more systematically over the past few years, and the work that has been done has given rise to positive developments. It is a better situation now than it was a few years ago, but I fully agree with those who express the feeling that this is going too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1471	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1485	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1496	In the proposition we are discussing today, the government is proposing the changes required by the Patient and User Rights Act and the Special Health Service Act to introduce free treatment choices for patients. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good work on the legislative proposal. The Committee has carried out consultations on the matter and the large number of aspects of the referral testify to the thorough work and commitment of the members of the Committee. The government's ambition with free treatment options is to make healthcare more accessible. The Committee has therefore examined the Government's proposal for a new reform, which is based on three pillars: firstly, that patients with a right to health care should be able to choose where he or she will be treated among approved establishments for public account; secondly, that regional health establishments should be able to buy more from private bodies through tenders; and thirdly, that public hospitals should be given greater freedom by allowing them to treat more patients than budgeted, as long as this is financed through effort-driven funding. There will always be some uncertainty about the exact number of patients in health queues. Nevertheless, the Committee agrees that there is reason to be concerned that many patients wait unnecessarily long for absolutely necessary treatment in the specialist healthcare service. The Committee is concerned that the specialist health service in Norway should be of high quality in patient care, with as rapid a diagnosis as possible and treatment initiated. It is also an overall committee that emphasises that patients have now experienced several legislative and regulatory changes that strengthen their rights, freedom of choice and power in relation to healthcare, and that this is a positive development that has strengthened the patient’s position and facilitated the development of a better and more user-adapted health service. Privates provide services for government in different sectors and through different contractual relationships. This interaction is the cross-political agreement on which health care is also important. The cooperation between the public owners and the private and non-profit health establishments is based on a long tradition in Norwegian healthcare. Following the release of the hearing note by the Ministry, some important changes have taken place. This applies, for example: that the free choice of treatment and the free choice of hospitals are combined into one common right provision – that the right to seek HELFO in the event of a breach of time will apply in the event of a free choice of treatment and that the right to review also applies in the case of a free choice of treatment. In addition, it is now explicitly stated that the right to an individual level applies in the case of free choice of treatment. Furthermore, a legislative provision is proposed to allow regional health establishments to grant to individuals with whom they have an agreement the power to grant patients the right and the time limit necessary for the provision of specialist health services. It is positive that important hearings have been followed, and I would assume that regardless of whether one agrees or disagrees with the reform itself, these changes are most of them considered constructive changes for enhanced patient rights. It's not to hide, nor is it a secret, that there are deep ideological distinctions between the majority and the minority in this matter. I would therefore like to make the following presentation of the consensus negotiated between the two government parties and the cooperation parties here in Stortinget and our views on the matter. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agreed in the cooperation agreement to strengthen treatment provision in the field of drugs and mental health. Our ambition was to increase the quality of healthcare and to establish more coherent treatment for patients. In the cooperation agreement, we decided that free treatment options should be introduced and that the scheme should first be introduced for addicted patients and patients in the field of mental health protection. Therefore, we are happy to carry out together and deliver what we have promised. We strengthen patients’ rights by adopting the reform that will put in place all good forces to ensure patients’ health services of high quality at the right time, freedom of choice and greater diversity. Free treatment is an important health reform, especially for patients. We're transferring power from the system to the patients, and we're making it easier for the patients. As I mentioned earlier, this is a matter of clear political dividing lines. I cannot avoid commenting that I mean the use of words in several of the comments from the red-green parties are far from scary. They are characterized by an unwavering belief in their own politics, even though we saw that waiting times have grown over the last eight years. Notices from our parties about how unfortunate this is for people who want and need to move on in life were categorically rejected – as categorically as the former government parties today oppose strengthened patient rights and new ideas and better solutions to help more, faster. Patients need an effective and accessible publicly funded healthcare that they can trust. For what does free treatment choice mean for the patient? Last week I met a user with a long speed as a patient in mental health protection. He rejoiced over the reform. He said it's time to compete on quality. And he said something incredibly important about being allowed to make his own choices. Of course, addicts and mentally ill people have as strong opinions as anyone else about where and how they want to be treated in healthcare. When the options don't exist, the patient told me that it felt like it had to be forced to walk around with shoes of size 42 when the foot needs size 45. You get forced into something that doesn't work, and that can sometimes make things worse. History is in stark contrast to the opposition's description of what free treatment options will mean for the individual. The red-greens almost try to scare patients that the reform is bureaucratic, heavy-rooted, expensive and unpredictable, and they even warn that patients who use free treatment will not have the promised quality of treatment. In different wordings, the red-green batches have produced the problem that addicts and mentally ill people are entitled to free treatment first, on the grounds that they are vulnerable and that they do not have a clear condition. It is, in our opinion, an unwarranted, almost patriotic attitude towards a patient group that deserves as much freedom of choice, as short waiting and as fast treatment as anyone else. Their condition is really clear, they're just waiting and waiting for treatment. Drug addicts and mentally ill people themselves often have a good overview of different treatment options and clear opinions on which services are best suited to their needs. Of course they'll also have to choose. Therefore, we are proud to introduce free treatment options — first in multidisciplinary, specialised drug treatment and in mental health protection. Previously, these patients have been the last to receive new patient rights. This time, on our watch, they're first. Free treatment options also reverse the negative trend we saw under red-green rule, where treatment sites and institutions were shut down. This is therefore not only a strengthening of patients’ rights, it is also a clear signal to private and non-profit actors that they should have a role to play in a publicly funded health service where all good forces are to be contributed. It is a continuation of a long story in Norwegian health policy. The first welfare actors in this country were not the public hospitals or the municipal health establishments owned. It is an important Norwegian value that the volunteers, the ideals and the private are the ones who have the most proud and longest history when it comes to providing help to those who need it. That the red-green parties are afraid of the ability of private and non-profit actors to supplement the public health system is nothing new. While we think it gives more power to patients, and that it creates more diversity and freedom of choice, the red-greens see it as a threat to the system. That is why, together with the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, we are clear here that, with the majority of our parties, the ideal and private will continue to make their important contribution to the benefit of patients in Norway. We in the Right today are proud to adopt a long-term reform, a reform the users and patients say they have been waiting for, and they are cheering for. There is nothing in our joy that the Workers' Party has notified through the media that they will reverse the reform as soon as they get the chance. It's not the first time the Workers' Party is going against strengthening patients' rights, but it's perhaps the first time they're signaling that they're going to choose to weaken them. That the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties are not satisfied, we can live well with. That is, after all, all for patients to introduce this reform – in order for more people to receive treatment more quickly. We achieve that with free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1536	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1539	Ruspacents are among the most complex, and as far as I know, there is not yet a quality indicator of good drug treatment. So the question is, how does the Right think that free choice of treatment should increase the quality of drug treatment provision, when private individuals no longer need to compete through tenders, but must provide services at the lowest price?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1544	It is not right, as the representative Grung says, that private parties should not compete through tenders. The most important thing about this reform is that we open up more purchases of private capacity through tenders. We are also strengthening the public hospitals in this reform. These are the two important main pillars. In addition, we also establish a freedom of choice for patients to be able to choose actors outside of these agreements. A great many of the spaces I've met are very clear that they know very well which types of treatment options could help them. There are many actors, both non-profit and private, in addition to the public that help to create a diversity for these patients, and that actually get the quality of treatment they should have, because patients are just treated where they believe they should be able to recover.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1551	I would like to congratulate the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen on the day – when a major privatisation reform in the Norwegian health care system is carried out with the voices of the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm glad that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen admits from the pulpit that this is an ideologically justified reform, and that she is not primarily driven by the patients' needs. One may have many concerns about this change, but I want to address one aspect that we have been told about: that the reform can drive over-treatment when private patients are to be paid by the state and will be allowed to grant patient rights. So I want to comment on how to prevent the reform from leading to over-treatment, which is not for the patient's benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1558	For the vast majority of patients waiting for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, I don't think overtreatment is the most worrying thing. What worries us and has been worrying us for many years is that waiting times are increasing, and that patients are not allowed to choose treatment from actors and suppliers where they are being treated so that they can actually recover and return to their lives. There are patients who are entitled to treatment who will receive treatment through this reform. Many of the private users in drug treatment also have evaluation skills today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1565	I am a little surprised by the answer – that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen neglects over-treatment as a challenge for the health care system. It is a major international theme and it also comes on the agenda here in Norway. There are many audiocassettes that have just mentioned that this reform can lead to more over-treatment because it facilitates and promotes treatment, because that is what private minds spend money on. In addition, the private should be able to grant patient rights, and spend money on treatment in a different way from that of the public. I would like to ask again how the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen believes that the reform does not lead to over-treatment. I'd like an answer that's not about rushing and psychiatry, but somatic suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1572	Firstly, it gives me an opportunity to say that this is not a privatisation reform, as the representative Toppe said in his first line. This is a patient reform, and it is primarily a reform that should make public hospitals more effective, so that we can use the treatment capacity that we know is there, and also create a greater diversity for patients. We trust that those who provide specialist health care have the ability to assess and to give the right right to treatment to these patients. I think that parts of the reply to the representative Toppe are characterized by a distrust of the assessments made by the specialists in both the public health service and the private actors, who have the competence to grant treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1579	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1583	Now it will be easier for individuals to establish themselves in the Norwegian health care system and to treat patients. It's paid by the state. And you shouldn't need an agreement with a public health company, as the requirement is today. About this was the launch of the reform presented in January 2011 by Højre’s head, Erna Solberg, and Vice-Chairman Bent Höie, both then members of the Health and Care Committee. The reform was subsequently called for free treatment options, while I have never managed to see that it is the free choice for patients who are the new. Rather, it is the freedom of establishment of private actors that is at the heart of the reform. Because it is that the free right to choose where we will be treated when we are ill, we have already had 15 years in Norway, through free hospital choice, which came in 2001. This means that a patient who is to be treated in the specialist healthcare system — including drug and psychiatry patients — can freely choose to go to any hospital throughout the country, to a public hospital, or to private and non-profit actors who have an agreement with a health company and are thus quality-secured. The Stoltenberg government extended this right to image diagnostics as well, and we decided that this should also apply to rehabilitation. It's just about. 15 pst. of Norwegian patients who are currently actively using free hospital choice, so there is reason to believe that we have a lot to go on here. Better and more up-to-date information about the online system, simple online access, and an obligation for decision-makers and hospitals to assist patients in finding out about the system are important tools to succeed in this, which we took care of on our guard. When we then add that the freedom of choice for Norwegian patients also applies to the right to change their place of residence, we can certainly state that the principle of freedom of choice in healthcare is already respected in the law – for the whole treatment chain. I think it might be an idea that the Minister of Health was more concerned with the possibilities that are actually in the law, that they were used, instead of launching the highly bureaucratic and less transparent free treatment options. The Health Minister has said that he will create the patient's health care system. It's a good ambition to have, and I absolutely believe the Minister of Health means it. That's also an ambition we share. That is why we agree on many aspects of health policy, such as: introduction of standardised treatment courses in the care of cancer in order to reduce waiting times, so-called package cycles. However, in this case there may be reason to ask the question raised in the proposed text on page 7: ‘A fundamental question is: If the patient were to decide – how would we organise and direct the work? This is a radical question. We will take the answer seriously – and it will be decisive for the work on the patient’s health care.’ I assume here you take into account that the patient or patients, in majority, have different points of view, different needs and very different votes, both in number and in strength. And we who want to put the patient in the center of everything we do in the health sector, have to take this whole thing over us. The most important thing we can do, both for individual patients and for patients the most, is to take care of the equivalent healthcare system, the healthcare system that will provide good services to the entire population, with fair distribution between parts of the country and regions, between different patient groups and between specialist health services and community services. So what does the vast majority of the Norwegian people think about the case, as the proposition demands? We got a clear answer to this in the health barometer presented by the National Association for Cardiovascular Disease in the New Year. There is an overwhelming majority of the population that the most important thing is to strengthen public hospitals throughout the country, the local hospitals that you have in relative proximity, and the large specialised hospitals that exist in all the regions. This is also the view of the Lege Association. In the big hearing, the following was underlined: ‘The most effective measure to reduce waiting times and queues is to ensure adequate framework conditions for public hospitals through increased budget appropriations.’ Then there's an important finding in LHL's health barometer: People don't want us to open up even more private players in the Norwegian health sector. It's a clear answer to the question of how people want us to rig our health system. See if there are many patient organisations, e.g. In the drug field, which is positive that free treatment options can provide multiple treatment sites — which I fully understand — is thus an overwhelming majority of the population, as well as several patient and user representatives and the very many different hearing bodies who participated in the delinquency hearings are very negative. So the answer from people to the question that the Minister of Health is asking in the proposition is not free treatment choice. So to the very proposal and the content of the reform we are dealing with today. First of all, it's to say that the government has subdued the scale and the device, compared to what you went out with initially. All the criticisms of this case have met, have, as we can see, made an impression – and it should just be missing. At the same time, the proposal for free choice of treatment is full of unanswered questions. The proposition lacks internal logic and has a number of reasonings that go in one direction but end up with a sharp opposite conclusion. However, if the system has been dismantled in relation to the violent ambitions initially expressed, the problematic aspects of the reform are clearly highlighted. I think the Norwegian Nursing Association said it quite precisely in the storing hearing: ‘In the assessment of the NSF, the government’s ‘treatment election reform’ will involve a level of private commercial services that we have not seen in Norwegian healthcare before.’ There are some specific features of the reform that make Norwegian Nurses' Association right in its characteristics. Free treatment options open up so that private, commercial actors can settle down exactly where they want to, and – as this is rolled out – decide which patient groups to offer treatment, e.g. the most ‘profitable’, without any agreement with public health establishments. And then the bill is to be sent to the public, i.e. it shall be charged to the budgets of the public hospitals. While public hospitals have clear frameworks and leads to deal with them, the private, commercial operators can operate without volume limits, according to the government's proposal. Then it has to be allowed to ask: what kind of drivers are the ones that are built into the specialist health service, when you open up for the establishment of a publicly funded private, commercial hospital sector, which is supposed to operate without a financial framework and disconnected from public health care? What does this do with the balance between the ‘food’ parts of the health sector — the specialist health service and the community health service — in view of the need to ensure a good distribution of both economic and professional resources? I dare to claim that the objective of good distribution and prioritisation – and the objective of equivalent services across the country – is at stake if free treatment choices are rolled out widely, as the government has said they want. It must not be surprising that the introduction of the health market will give rise to the logic of the market and the dynamics of the market. The government believes that it should inspire more innovation, better services and more efficiency both in public and private actors. But if you look at nations that have tried this, it's the opposite that has happened. Scotland, which is a country with which we can compare in many ways, went away from its previous policy of extensive unit price financing and a significant element of private, commercial providers, which allegedly had to lift public health to new heights. But that's not what happened. On the contrary, there is a huge deficit, the creation of some ‘wage’ treatments, over-treatment and fragmented services — and a large and expensive transaction bureaucracy, which increasingly ate more and more of the health benefits. Today, there is a cross-political consensus among all the Scottish political parties, from left to right, that it is the public that should be responsible for driving the health supply to the population. In Scotland, previous policies were reversed and today have a much better public health system, with budgets in balance. I cannot see that the reform of free treatment options has any other reason than the ideological, simply because the establishment of multiple treatment sites can be done very well within today’s arrangements, both through direct, long-term agreements with private and non-profit providers and through the tendering system we have – and as the ministry has said is the best. For example, in the 2014 budget, the Stoltenberg government granted fresh funds to 200 additional drug sites, for purchase from, among others. institutions. That's how we can cut down waiting times, without building up a bureaucratic system centrally in the Health Directorate. But if you have an ideological backpack that almost seems like a coercive jersey, it's hard to see other possibilities. Free treatment is proof that this is exactly what you're doing. I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, and the proposals that we are promoting with the Central Party. The Labour Party will vote against the bill, with the exception of the amendment relating to the Patient and User Rights Act § 2-1(b) of the proposal for Roman Numeral Decision II – which will be a legalisation of current practice, and which we support. We ask that the voting be put up in such a way that this provision can be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1622	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, has presented the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1627	In fact, in the setting of free treatment choices, the Labour Party points out several times in its comments that there is a need for stronger cooperation between public hospitals and private and non-profit actors, as it will increase treatment capacity. Now the Workers' Party is talking about the possibilities offered by the tendering procedure to extend the use. I support it. But if the Workers' Party really believes that cooperation will strengthen it, then how could it be that there was a decrease of almost 6 pst. in purchases of private services from 2009 to 2013? How can you trust that the Workers' Party means what they say?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1632	We don't have an ideological approach to this. We believe that the purchase of private services, and especially ideal ones, must be governed by the need you see at all times, and the bottlenecks you have, for example. have in the public health system. The purchase of treatment sites has gone up under the red-green government, and then it has gone back a little, and then it has gone up again. As I said, in the 2014 budget, the government put up the purchase of 200 more drug treatment sites in the budget for purchases from institutions. So this isn't high in stone. It's the need and the access we see at good places and competent treatment staff, who have to control the purchase of the number of places. Otherwise, we need to strengthen our cooperation with the private and ideals with which we work, because that is not good enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1637	The representative has repeatedly stated that we have good public hospitals, and that patients want an offer near where they live. The Labour Party believes that this is why most people do not want free treatment. At the same time, the representative has claimed that if there are more private hospitals, almost all employees will flee across you, and so will the patients. What is the reason why the representative has such extremely little faith in the public hospitals that she believes that no one really wants to work there, and what is the reason why she feels sure that the patients, despite wanting closeness, will choose to travel far to use a private offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1642	I have great faith in the public hospitals and in public health services, as well as in the best private and ideals we work with. However, we should not undermine the fact that in some parts of the country it is more difficult to get specialists in different treatment areas. It's easier for a private commercial actor, who might attract very good pay initially for the best and the most educated people you need, and who can narrow down their treatment offer to patients, so that it's the simplest suffering that's being treated. Then, of course, it is a much bigger challenge for the public hospitals in Finnmark, More and Romesdal and Telemark to compete with, for example. central private institutions, which have chosen themselves which patients they intend to treat. It cannot be done by the public health system — they must treat everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1647	The Labour Party speaks with at least three tongues about privatisation in this debate. During the red-green shift in the health sector, around 300,000 in 2013 were in line for treatment, while the number of people buying health insurance was close to 400,000. It was either rich citizens or rich employers who, in distrust of the system, bought them. It's a form of privatisation that the Workers' Party is not talking about. But was it really what was the strategy, and which is the solution for the Workers' Party, that the richest should be able to buy past the queue, and that one does not care for the public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1652	We've really taken care of the public hospitals, and we want to keep doing that. But in terms of private treatment insurance, we are the lowest in the whole Nordic region in proportion to what has happened under bourgeois governments in our neighbouring country. The civil government set up from 2001 to 2005 introduced tax incentives for the purchase of private treatment insurance. We terminated that arrangement. So we're at the lowest, and that's just ten pst. of the treatment insurance purchased, purchased by individuals. Enterprises generally buy such insurances to their managers and intermediaries. So really it's very good in Norway if we compare ourselves to other Nordic countries. There is greater trust here in public health than it is, for example. in Sweden and Denmark if we are to look at the degree of purchase of private health insurance. So we're at the bottom of the North, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1660	Some work days are better than others. This day merges into the series of good days at work – days where we make a difference for many people. Today, we are going to adopt a whole new system of specialist health services. We must adopt free treatment choices. A long-standing dream for me and the Advance Party becomes a reality, and many rejoice with me. Many have thought that what the red-greens failed most was health. Norwegian Nursing Association summarised in the hearing opinion eight red-green years as follows: ‘ Norway has a low number of beds [[...]] [[...]] The medical association expressed the same, only even more clearly. We are fully aware of this legacy, and that is why we are working on a national health and hospital plan, a plan that should have been in place many years ago. The centre party has understood that – that's why they've scraped everything. SV has scrapped everything – except the Cooperation Reform – while the Workers' Party basically clings to everything that didn't work, and has only scrapped the care of the elderly. So there is a large majority to make significant changes in health, and the government has been working on, and is still working on, changes in all areas of health. The aim of free treatment is to continue public hospitals as a support bar for specialist healthcare, while extending patients’ rights and facilitating shorter waiting times. The left has always been a fundamental resistance to extending the rights and freedom of choice of individuals. For the Progress Party, this has always been a matter of course. This resistance is clearly shown in the notes. Any counter-representation is justified in the system. The patient is not a subject. For the Progress Party and the Government, this is an important step towards building the patient’s healthcare. We're starting with alcohol and mental health. This isn't random. People waiting for help in these areas have been down priorities for many years. Many of them have been throwing balls in the system, they have had minimal influence on their own recovery, and many have received an offer that has not matched the problem they have faced. Failure time and time again makes the road back even longer, while the disease escalates. When entering its most important and toughest struggle, it is to influence the content of the treatment a strengthening effect. Having faith in what you're going to, and wanting to do exactly this, gives you a sense of being respected and having participation. It's gold worth it. It is important to stress that the reform also intends to use available capacity in a completely new way, in order to reduce waiting times. We know that waiting times take life, and we can't accept that spaces are empty while people go down. That is why we are no longer just going to offer the places that health care companies buy through tenders. We're going to buy the places that are available, as well as buying places from institutions that don't already have a tender agreement. In this way, we will have many new places available, as well as diversity and freedom of choice. That's what this opposition is called patient hostile. Even more alarming is that there are these patients the opposition characterizes as the most profitable patients and who do not have the most need. So the opposition believes that this system will be a good thing for individuals who can take simple patients. In the next sentence, they claim that it is completely wrong to introduce it for drug use and mental health, as these are complex and unexplained. More self-contradictory, it doesn't matter. The first claim falls on its own unfairness. Everyone knows that addiction and mental disorders are not simple diagnoses. The second claim also falls on its own unfairness. Numbers from the Norwegian Patient Register show that about 14 pst. of those awaiting somatic specialist treatment have a clear condition. Corresponding numbers in mental health are about 45 pst. And for drugs, the total number is 73 pst. Since we do not aim to move the treatment from the public to the private, this should come as a supplement and is therefore made visible as a separate allocation of 150 million. kr on the State budget for 2015. In addition, 20 million have been allocated. to upgrade computer systems and make patient systems more accessible to most people, such as free hospital choice, follow-up of deadlines and foreign treatment. The Health Directorate shall manage the scheme and a website with information on which services are covered by free treatment choices and what is expected waiting time is planned. The system will also include a patient counselling service by telephone. Private and non-profit institutions are now to be both a corrective and a cooperative partner for public hospitals and a contribution to increased diversity and quality of supply. So this is no guarantee for the private to survive. If they do not maintain high quality and do not meet all the requirements, they will not be approved. And if they don't provide good services, the patients don't. Therefore, with increased patient treatment as a goal, it is necessary to remove the activity gap that has been in hospitals in the last few years. In opposition comments, they claim that this activity gap has not been operational in recent years. However, the Ministry answers questions about exactly this and says that it has had a limiting effect on the growth of activity. In 2014, the government reintroduced the rule that there should be higher growth in mental health and drug activities than in somatic activities. This will reduce the risk of unintended priorities away from services currently not covered by activity-based grants. Psychiatric health protection and drug use are funded by the basic allocation and are therefore not covered by the activity management. Regional health enterprises already have experience in purchasing services from private individuals in several areas, although the proportion has fallen over the last few years, as the number of people who have been standing and waiting for treatment has increased. The opposition's claims in its observations are that their policies provided for even stronger cooperation with private and non-profit institutions through tenders and agreements. So the numbers show a decrease, and it's a well-known case that several sites were laid down during the red-green period. The Soria Moria Declaration and mission documents of this time show that this was a wild policy. This increased health cows and waiting times, while growing up a two-part healthcare system, where they bought themselves in line with money or insurance and had freedom of choice. It is now pointed out that more should be done to strengthen the economy and facilitate increased opening hours for outpatient day surgery. Although this doesn't help those who need long-term good-bye treatment, we've already done these two things. If we are to clean up the long waiting lists, action needs to be put in many places. Free treatment options are just one part of the job we do. The opposition boasts that we have had free hospital choice since 2001, even though at the time they protested against its implementation. The red-green have also voted against free rehabilitation choices, no later than 2012. It seems that you have not understood that free hospital choice has not included all available capacity. This led, inter alia, to: Phoenix Haga, with the best results for drugfree even after five years, was excluded. This also meant that, despite the availability of vacancies at an institution, many refusals were made because the number of places where the health care provider had decided to use was exhausted. Of course, if you are in a situation where you fear life, it is incomprehensible that free hospital choice has such limitations. That's what we're cleaning up now. In 2013, patient advisors in Free Hospital Choice received more than 32,000 enquiries, indicating that a lot of treatment is done via referrals and done, while many have their own wishes for a place or are occupied by waiting time. Since the free choice of treatment is now an extended version of free hospital choice, we can expect this number to increase slightly without expecting the major explosion. That's what's so good about freedom of choice. There is the freedom to choose whether you want to or not. It's a record bomb when you say these are patients who are unable to navigate in this new freedom of choice. My experience is completely opposite. These are people who have a lot of knowledge about the offer that exists out there and who have strong opinions about and against the individual places. We will not make the same mistake as the Red-Greens did when they introduced the Cooperation Reform. Therefore, we start up carefully, carry out a research-based follow-up evaluation and make any necessary adjustments along the way. In addition, continuous user surveys will be carried out. Then I take the last sentence, which is: Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1723	The proposal for free choice of treatment provides for a significant bureaucracy to phase in and out operators in the scheme, to set prices and to control operators. And then, obviously, you have to take community considerations, but not health policy considerations. It's pretty hard to understand what's the difference between the two terms. What are societal considerations, and what are health policy considerations? Can the head of the Health Committee explain here what the difference is?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1728	Societal reasons are a little bit bigger than health. We need to look at the overall supply across the country, we need to look at skills, at results, and that's a bigger picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1733	I need to know one more thing. It was called a long-standing dream with an introduction here today. Siv Jensen promised a war against bureaucracy before the 2013 elections. Now the Progress Party, together with the Right and Cooperation Parties, introduces a reform in which a significant bureaucracy is to be introduced. It seems to me, then, that the Progress Party either owes an apology to those who were previously referred to as bureaucrats, or their voters. Who is the Progress Party politician and the head of the Health and Care Committee will apologize to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1738	I do not need to apologize to anyone, for this bureaucracy is only the Labour Party that has found. I've tried to read all the notes, and I'm trying to find out where to find these bureaucrats. The system won't be any different. It'll be getting a referral, just like today. Most people are referred to a place, and they travel there and get their treatment. And then there are a few that can use the freedom of choice. Previously, it's been called free hospital choice. They've had the exact same system. Now there's a little bit more on that list, there's a greater diversity on that list, and it's a little bit easier to find that list. It has nothing to do with bureaucracy. It's about making it simple, nice and good for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1743	The chairperson of the Health and Welfare Committee was in his speech concerned that pre-drug and psychiatry patients should be included in the free treatment options scheme. There were a lot of people in the audience who were warning against it, and the medical unit took part. the fact that the proposed scheme should initially apply to day-to-day treatment, while professional developments in drug and mental health are moving towards more day-to-day treatment and outpatient treatment. The Medical Association showed in the ear ring that over 90 pst. the referrals to mental health protection relate to outpatient treatment. So the question is how to create a whole-hearted service when free treatment options only deal with daily treatment. What happens to the patient for further follow-up with regard to outpatient day care?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1750	In order to benefit from outpatient treatment if you are seriously ill or have a strong addiction where you are very ill, long-term treatment first needs to be provided. Then, of course, it is important to put in place that there is an offer there, and that one is rusted for what comes after, when one comes home. Then there is an overall approach that must take place in the municipalities afterwards, and there are the municipalities that have failed. We present a news report this autumn that will take into account the work to be done in the municipalities, where the interdisciplinary work will be absolutely crucial, and where housing and outpatient treatment, dental treatment, indebted clean-up – all these things – must be linked. But it has nothing to do with free treatment, because it is the specialist health service that needs to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1755	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1758	Waiting lists have been and are a challenge. It costs a lot of money, but first of all it has a high price for the patients involved, and their families. And perhaps the most important thing for those who have a drug problem or a mental disorder is waiting lists and waiting time a huge challenge. Waiting time and treatment are an important indicator of the availability and quality of a healthcare service. In 2012, I stood a Friday with a patient who could get help at a non-profit clinic on Sunday against paying NOK 140 000. He got space. As rapporteur, I tried the same day to get a patient who had several small children, it was full. For the Christian People's Party it is important to have good public services, but we are also concerned with the problem that there are so many who are in line, who need our help. Then we want to try free treatment options and combine it with free hospital choice to see if we can actually help those who need it the most. That the patient is entitled to choose for himself where he or she gets or wants treatment from approved establishments, I think it is central – and they should not have to have 140,000 kroner in the account to get help – and also that regional health companies can buy more services from private and non-profit institutions to get as much treatment as possible, and that hospitals can actually use the capacity they have to deal with and operate more. But the Christian People's Party will focus on whether a person uses this opportunity to treat those who give the most income, and not those who are the sickest, because it is those who are the sickest, who need help first, and not those who generate the most income for hospitals. But that's nothing new, we have today's challenge: More shoulders are being treated in More and Romesdal than in Stavanger, and one can ask: why? So it seems to the Christian People's Party that it is demanding to see how this comprehensive health reform will turn out, how it will turn out, and what consequences this will have. Therefore, there are three things that are important for the Christian People's Party: One is that the last will be the first – that is a good principle for the Christian People's Party and a Bible principle. Those who have always been at the back – mentally ill and incapacitated – will be the first. They've had their services built up in the last few years, they're only going to be here by now. We want – point 2 – an evaluation to ensure that we have control at all times and can rig the reform so that it goes as it is intended. And thirdly, it's also important for the Christian People's Party that those who need help get it when they need it. When we have greater capacity, we also get help faster. So this undoubtedly gives a room for opportunity for the non-profit sector: they should not be obliged to give way to private, but could get long-term contracts in place, as several of the regional health companies have actually done, and that is good, because they idealally need predictability in order to provide good services. A strong non-profit sector that can be used with its available capacity is essential for the treatment of multiple patients. Many ideals have very good and high competence, long experience and are preferred by very many patients. One should not go further than to Modum Bad, to which I know many wish. Now the patient is given the opportunity to choose from available capacity and what the patient himself feels he can get help and need for his needs. At the same time, the Christian People's Party will focus on the centralisation of evaluation, so that we do not get there as we did with the Interaction Reform, that we do not evaluate along the way and get shot where it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1784	It is known that the Christian People's Party has been very skeptical about free treatment choices. Two quotes show this. Christian People's Party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, says this: «This model, where commercial and public health actors are parallel, will in the long term undermine public health.» Furthermore, the representative of Bollestad said to the newspaper earlier this year: ‘We question funding for free treatment choices. We only have one wallet to finance the health sector, and then there must be some economic leadership.’ Does the representative, Mr Bollestad, consider that these objections have been addressed in the proposal promoted by the government? And in what way will the representative be involved in handling these objections?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1800	It is absolutely true, as the representative says, that both the leader of the Christian People's Party and I as a representative have been critical of some of the arrangements in the reform. It was very special to the first one to come, so there's been a hearing, and then there's been changes in relation to it. So the Christian People's Party is concerned that we need to have an evaluation, so that we always ensure that we don't spend money wrong, that it doesn't become a suction pipe, but that we actually have a goal of reaching out and being able to treat more patients. Because it costs the individual and costs the community, patients are in line – at least those who have drug problems and mental problems and who want treatment but do not get it when they need it. They might fall more outside than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1807	I must first regret that we meet this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1812	It's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1817	But the Christian People's Party has opted to be opposed to free treatment choices, and we are also disappointed that the Christian People's Party supports the government party in this matter. The representative Bollestad himself stated in the post that this was a room of opportunity for the ideals. Indeed, it was very clear that when ideals are going into a more competitive situation, it is not useful if there is no solution to the pension challenges. The government has not delivered it, so this is starting to work. What do the Christian People's Party think will happen to the ideals when they have the pension challenge with them and now come into a competitive situation with commercial, private providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1824	Firstly, I would like to say that this agreement, on the free choice of treatment, is part of the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It's not to hide that this has not been the baby of the Christian People's Party. But when that's said, I want to say that the Christian People's Party is incredibly busy to bring down the waiting time. There was also a cut-off in the non-profit sector under the previous government, and the Christian People's Party wants to make agreements where the non-profit sector actually has an opportunity. Then the Christian People's Party thinks that if that's the way the pension scheme, the backpack they have ideals, is being undermined now, we have a challenge in getting long-term agreements for the non-profit sector. But I know that the government is working with the pension schemes, which is something that is far back in time, and which we are more responsible for cleaning up. I think when they're in place, the non-profit sector says they can contribute like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1829	The choice of treatment is based on an ideology to compete for health crowns. It's 20 million. kr in red tape this year, and one has given SEK 170 million. Dr for alcohol and psychiatry. I don't think the Christian People's Party would have been a better system, instead of giving all private commercial providers a right to administer patient treatment paid by the state, in competition against both the ideal and the public, rather to spend the 170 million. kr to an earmark for ideal, e.g. within psychiatry and psychiatry? Then we would have secured the ideals of such a system, instead of going into a free treatment choice system where there would be a competitive situation with regard to health funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1834	In the case of ideal health crowns, the Christian People's Party was a proponent for us to commit 100 million in the budget. NOK, and it was done, so that one would actually use some of the capacity of the non-profit sector. Then the Christian People's Party agrees with the Center Party that it is a challenge for the non-profit sector to compete with the private sector. But the non-profit sector itself answers: if they get the order for pension costs, they're able to compete in the same line, both on quality and on price. It's the core of the Christian People's Party that patients get the help they need, when they need it. If we see that this doesn't work, the evaluation lies as a bottom plan in this. I believe that the government parties and the Left agree to want this to succeed, and then we must always turn the shot so that we are sure that we do not destroy the non-profit sector. Because there's someone who's done something about drugs and psychiatry, it's the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1841	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1844	The free choice of treatment is an ideologically based reform based on one premise: competition for health crowns. Competition for health crowns is an objective in itself with the reform. Competition for health crowns should be the driving force for public hospitals to become more effective. The Christian People's Party and the Left gave up the fight for the public hospitals. Everything was decided in the Nydalen. Free treatment options were to be introduced, first in the field of drugs and psychiatry. While other countries, such as Scotland and New Zealand, have gone away from the health care market and are building their health services on cooperation – not competition – Norway is now going the opposite way. The government platform clearly determines this: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential for competition to become a horizontal element of public activity.» Now this is being introduced as a principle in the health care system in Norway, and that is what is important today: that competition is being introduced as a principle for the development of Norwegian health services. Free treatment options mean requiring regional healthcare providers to purchase more health services from private providers, while private providers should be provided with patient treatment, paid by the country — without needing any agreement with the public hospital. We believe that this could lead to a strong privatisation and a weakening of the public health system. It will ultimately affect those for whom health care is available, i.e. patients. The centre party will fight for strong public ownership and health management, where non-profit providers are important partners and private commercial providers are a useful complement. Free treatment options are a reform of the resources of patients and of those who want to spend money on patient treatment. The reform will mean that the Storting loses a tool to plan health services for the entire population, and the districts are at risk of losing even more of their closest treatment. Public hospitals are responsible for education, research and immediate help. When it comes to free treatment options, there are several who warn that public hospitals may be deprived of competence, while at the same time they will be left responsible for the most difficult and costly treatments. The introduction of free treatment options is the largest health reform in many years. We see that this will affect patients with clear conditions and the most profitable treatments. The ideals I've been inside. It is clear that if the non-profit sector is to be responsible for a large part of welfare production, competition with private individuals with entirely different pension challenges is not the way to go. Then one can rather enter into long-term agreements, which this government has not done. It is urgent in view of the new EU directive. There shall be no emphasis on health policy considerations in the assessment of whether to grant authorisation for new private supply. There has been a suggestion in the hearing. That's what the government has gone away from. In any case, the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to do this again, but one should not, therefore, focus on health policy concerns such as: the struggle for the outlaws and where they're going to work. We need to see free treatment options in conjunction with the National Hospital Plan. One introduces free day-care competition, depending on which many local hospitals are able to provide immediate help and have a 24-hour security guard. The medical unit says that with free treatment options, a few major problems are that one does not have the same ICT system, and thinks that this should not be introduced until one has got it fixed. But it's still being introduced. Here the Christian People's Party and the Left could put their feet down and at least view it as a requirement. But this is not done either. The centre party will vote against the proposal and address the proposals that we have put forward together with SV in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1862	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1865	We have heard the Central Party several times express a concern that patients in the field of drug and mental health are the first to benefit from the reform. In comments in the settings, they indicate that there is ‘in particular unlucky inclusion of vulnerable patients in drug and psychiatry under the Free Treatment Choice Scheme’. In addition, the Center Party claims that these patients are not suitable for free treatment because they have so-called unexplained conditions. My question to the representative Toppe is whether they actually believe that these patients do not deserve shorter waiting time than the public can deliver, or are too weak to know for themselves which treatment services are best suited to their needs? And: How does the Centre deal with the figures from the Norwegian Patient Register, which shows that patients in the field of drug and mental health are those patient groups who are most likely to have a clear condition and are waiting for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1873	We believe that the way to ensure better treatment before drug use and mental health is actually to give money to the treatment system and not to take it into a free treatment option. We could have given the same money, as we've done, and allocated it to either non-profit or public offerings. Both the regional health professionals, the Medical Association and the Medical Association have warned against introducing this in the field of drugs and mental health, so if the representative Troeen thinks that all of these are wrong, at least it has to be explained much better to me. Ruspacers and patients with mental health challenges need a holistic course: it is not the only treatment that matters; there may be a need for long-term follow-up. This may not be a free treatment option, and these patients may be affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1878	The representative Toppe has a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen on 7 April, and there are a lot of claims there. Many of them beat each other a little bit, but I've hung myself a little bit up in the sentence that ‘patients with simple problems are favoured, not those with complex disorders and the greatest needs’. When free treatment options are introduced for drug use and mental health, my question is: Is it so to understand that the representative believes that drug addicts and people with severe mental disorders who need long-term treatment do not have complex disorders? And does the representative really think that these do not have a great need for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1888	No, this is what is so wrong with the whole reform: this will not work well for either rust patients or psychiatric patients who - yes - have compound suffering. But this system will not work for them because – as we had in the previous row – it is only about day-to-day treatment. It's not about outpatient follow-up, it's not about day care. So what will the whole-hearted provision of treatment be like to those we know who may have long-term suffering, who need better interaction with municipalities, etc., and also a follow-up after one treatment scheme? This is why it will not work, and so both the Medical Association, the regional health services and the Medical Association warn against introducing this before drug use and psychiatry. If you have a single knee problem, it can work, and it works today with free hospital choice. Then this can work, but not for other types of problem settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1893	The centre party was in a line previously concerned about quality and over-treatment, which I strongly and honestly support, but how will the Centre Party explain the discrimination that exists today in public hospitals – when one has the same suffering and has quite different approaches to treatment, for example. of shoulders, in More and Romesdal and Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1898	Thank you for the question. This is a major challenge in today’s healthcare system, because we see geographical differences in the frequency of intervention, especially against surgical intervention, or conservative treatment, i.e. waiting and looking. But what's challenging is that free treatment options won't make this less topical; it will make it more topical when it's a private provider that can also grant patient rights – for example. with surgical competence, considering a bad shoulder – and his company is making money to do an operation, but won't get any money by not doing it. So I think that this system of free treatment options can lead to overtreatment. This seemed to me to be neglected by the government party, and I am very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1905	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1908	Free treatment options are a reform that must succeed for patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry. It is currently the least satisfied and the most demanding patients to take on increased participation. If we succeed in including these patient groups in this reform, there is a great chance that it will be a success for all patients. For the Left, it's important and essential – then we put people first. Therefore, evaluation is also one of the important requirements we have had for the implementation of this reform, as well as an accompanying research. In-flight evaluation is important, and patients must also be included on advice. We need to hear from patients that this makes everyday life better and treatment faster. On behalf of the patients, we are looking forward to increased capacity, to better quality and to more clear patient paths. In particular, it applies in the field of mental health protection. Psychiatric health protection has been one of the challenges of being part of the reform and concerns have been raised in the course of the consultation rounds. It is also because mental health protection is organised in a slightly different way from somatic health care, and there is a reason to consider how we should contribute to strengthening the organisation, capacity and quality of mental health protection. We believe that free treatment options can help put this into focus and contribute to both improving quality and capacity, while allowing patients to become a clearer resource in treatment. For the Left, information has been a key word in the preparation of the reform. When patients are to be included in more participation and free choice, it is important that information is at the root of their contribution. The free choice of treatment has been a start on bringing patients to the elections, together with their permanent or other health professionals who have advised them in the elections. Free hospital choice has been a challenge. It has not been well enough arranged to allow patients to make those choices, and we see that the criteria for the choices have been too few. It's like waiting time has been one of the few criteria. It is important that there are now more criteria, and we are very pleased that efforts have been made over the last year to strengthen the digital platform and to facilitate more criteria, so that patients and their closest health professionals can make good choices. It is also important that we do not continue to build up an intermediary bureaucracy and health brokers that will sit on behalf of patients and mediate them into shorter treatment periods. An increasing number of health insurances have also contributed to this health call. We hope that free treatment options will provide a better offer here, and we see that this should now be grouped together in Healthnorge.no. There is also talk of large-scale privatisation, in particular from the Workers' Party. I have previously mentioned the increased number of health insurances, which the Workers' Party added to its alumni and had great confidence in. But in Norway, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home are clearly the largest private hospitals in Norway, but they have ideal actors as their basis. What's interesting is that these are hospitals that might have the best feedback from all patients across Norway. When I was visiting Lovisenberg, I met a patient counselor who was a volunteer and who worked six hours a week to guide patients and visitors to the hospital. It turned out that we have something to pick up from opening up to several actors. But perhaps the biggest privatisation reform in Norwegian health services in recent years has been the fixed reform and all the private contract specialists we have – we have a wide range of private actors today. Here's room for getting to more, all the good forces that can help make our health care better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1932	In a speech to the National Assembly of the Left before the 2013 elections, the leader of the party, Trine Skei Grande, said the following about the free choice of treatment: ‘With the Right Health Policy, it is not the most important, unsolved tasks that are solved by the private, it is the most profitable. The private can choose what they want to offer, and the public has to pay anyway. At the same time, public health services are left with the difficult and unprofitable tasks.’ Does the representative Kjeseth agree with his party leader in this recital? How do you avoid Trine Skei Grande getting right in his criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1942	I did not entirely disagree with my party leader at that time, but free treatment choices today are something quite different from what the Right sketched in his election campaign, and there are major changes being made along the way. We started, among other things: with alcohol and psychiatry to gain experience. If we succeed with those patient groups – which today are the least satisfied and the most demanding – we have a good basis for success. This is essentially a quality reform. It's a capacity reform. It benefits the most addicts and those with mental disorders. We see good opportunities to succeed in this reform. When we add that it is to be evaluated along the way and that we are to have follow-up research, we believe that this reform is more likely to succeed than it seems that the cooperation reform has done, as the Red-Green Government introduced, and as the Central Party has already scrapped after a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1947	We don't have the scraps of the Interaction Reform. We just wanted to remove the obligation to pay for patients who were ready to print. The left is concerned with ICT and patient safety, and that's very good. At the hearing, regional healthcare professionals were very clear that one did not have to introduce free treatment options until one had received a corresponding ICT system between the private and the public. They asked questions about how they could ensure a coherent patient run when the actors did not have a communicating ICT system. They described a situation in which one could not follow the patient for whom they have a care-for-the-wage responsibility, and they described a situation in which they thought this would constitute a patient-security problem that required compensatory measures. The left has not got into this case, and I wonder: why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1955	I share some of Toppe's challenges and concerns, but they're probably something bigger and belong mainly to the public hospitals, and not so much to the so-called private actors we have today. Lovisenberg Hospital uses exactly the same patient systems as the public hospitals, and I notice that they solve their use differently from the public. They can contribute and help public hospitals to better manage the ICT situation. At present, I see no great threat, but it is a challenge that some of the new small, private actors will not have the same systems – they will have other systems – and in the transfer of data between these actors, patient data can disappear or get out of hand. They are already doing so on a large scale in public hospitals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1960	I think the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, simply answered the question about the remarkable leap down from what the Left said before the election, and to the Left now says. According to the representative, Kjeseth, this is something quite different than what the Right spoke about before the elections. Well, I don't think everyone from the Right agrees with that picture. I don't agree with that either. Here we recognize the main features of what the right side said they would do, and as the Left and Christian People's Party said they were against. And then the Left has run from what the Left said to the voters, unless there is something in this setting that is a secret story that the Left has fought down the Right and the Advance Party. It is very difficult for me to see traces in the setting, but I would like to give the representative an opportunity to explain at what point it is The Right is fought down by the Left in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1965	First of all, we start with rushes and psychiatry. As I was in my post, the psychiatry is a little bit different organized. We start with those patient groups, and we succeed there, we have a good chance of success in the somatic. So this is also essentially a reform that increases capacity, and takes out available capacity in public hospitals. And this is not a large-scale privatisation, most of the capacity is built up in public hospitals, and it is not a large-scale phase-in of many private actors, nor is it on the threshold in Norway. As I say, it's the ideal actors, like Lovisenberg Hospital, who say they have the capacity to take the whole growth in Oslo's health needs over the next ten years. I welcome their contribution to this opportunity. So I think this is a reform that has changed along the way, and where cost control is also very affected, so we see no possibility that many private actors will get on the road here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1977	The reform we are seeing at the beginning of today is not about strengthening patients' rights, it is about strengthening the market as an instrument of Norwegian health policy, and will give commercial actors far more influence over the design of healthcare than before and thus far better opportunities to make health into a store. It's the wrong medicine for our health care system, it's a development SV will strongly warn against. This is a limited beginning, but if the principles behind the so-called free choice of treatment are implemented throughout the health sector, we are facing what will become a major privatisation reform. It is an illusion to believe that greater freedom for commercial operators should lead to faster and better treatment of Norwegian patients. There will be no more doctors, nurses or health professionals by more commercial actors. There will also be no major health budgets from this reform. It will only lead to a new distribution of resources, human and economic. What determines how fast and how many patients we can manage in our healthcare system will still be how we politicians dimension the same healthcare system through the budgets we adopt and how we organise the public hospitals. Then there is not too little market that is the problem in the health care system today, that is on the contrary too much. The structural reform we needed is, of course, a dismantling of the inefficient and bureaucratic business system and the abolition of the input-driven financing that already makes us play too much store in the Norwegian health system. With free treatment, the government goes the other way. It ensures the introduction of more markets with more random and unfair priorities and more bureaucracy as a likely result. This is the Council of State's prestige reform. It has been met with extensive criticism in the consultation rounds, but the government parties do not listen to that criticism. Health companies have alerted, the majority of employees’ organisations have done the same, and the debate in the drug field is much more nuanced than the government parties like to give an impression. This was seen by the Committee itself when the Board met for consultation. Many fear that free treatment choices will work poorly in the area of drugs and psychiatry, where complex and complex disorders are the starting point, and that is a poor starting point for commercial competition. The hearings raised a number of questions that we believe the government has not answered. Firstly, it is the challenge of opening up more commercial players to public health services by leading to increased competition for key personnel. In practice, when tax money is to go to commercial operators, it becomes the state itself paying for the loss of public health services for professionals. The most important resource in health services is the people who work there, and there won't be any more of them by letting go to more commercial actors. Secondly, we saw in the hearings that, among other things, health establishments are concerned that this reform will weaken the recruitment and training of health professionals. There is a huge difference between the responsibilities of public and private commercial actors in the training of health professionals in Norway. The Norwegian Health Service shall be a community in which all contribute and where training of new professionals is done in good faith. That is why we have proposed in the vote – without the support of the civil parties – that, when this reform is going through, a levy should be introduced for the commercial players, which compensates for the lack of responsibility they have for education. Thirdly, and most importantly, this reform, if fully implemented, will also lead to a different way of prioritisation in healthcare, not least in somatic settings. That is why it should have been an important part of the priority debate that the Council of State has justifiably initiated. We are at risk that the most profitable patients will be put in line first. That's the reverse principle of what we should have, that those patients with the greatest needs come first. There is not, in fact, a majority in the Grand Council for this reform. If the Christian People's Party and the Left had today voted in line with what they promised the voters, this proposal would have been defeated. It is sad that they in this field have changed policies, because it is not possible in this setting to see traces of the influence of the two parties on the final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e1999	SV believes free treatment choice is a privatisation reform, they claim it is ideologically justified. The representative Lightbakken overlooks the fact that their attack is grounded in an ideological and unfounded mistrust of private actors – a lopsided embrace of monopoly as a solution regardless of the challenge. In the SV world, a clearly paid by the public to have warm hands. I wonder if Lysbakken can mention one concrete reform from SV that made 2013 a better year than 2005 for those with drug problems or mental disorders?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2004	The premise is wrong, because SV is for private actors. But we're doing the important distinction that government parties don't make, namely, distinguishing between ideal and commercial actors. And it's a very important distinction to draw, because the take-up of commercial actors that this reform can lead to is just going to go beyond the ideal actors. The big difference between non-profit and commercial actors is that non-profit actors have as their starting point that all revenues they receive are to be returned to operation, while commercial operators are to make dividends. We're against the fact that tax bills going to health end up in welfare barons, big corporations or in tax havens. That's why we're against the commercialization of our healthcare system. In terms of what was the most important thing we did to strengthen the field of drugs and mental health, it was the same as it would be in the future: more resources for that field. This reform does not do so, and therefore it will not deliver the results of the government parties hoping for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2011	In the NRK opinion of 29 March, the lighthouse has written that patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry are particularly poorly suited for free treatment choices, and that it is incomprehensible that these are used as test rabbits. Furthermore, the Light Background writes that the reform is best suited to simple and clarified states, and that there is little of it in the rush and psychiatry. I can initially inform you that the organisations have reacted that their members are called guinea pigs. But the question is this: when numbers from the Norwegian patient registry show that only about 14 pst. waiting for somatic specialist treatment, has a clear condition, while the figures for clearance in mental health and drug use are 45 pst, respectively. And the whole 73 pst., will the Light Hill then correct its article in the NRK statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2020	Firstly, I also have good contact with the organisations, and to the extent that they will respond, they are certainly able to do so directly to me. What was my point was what has also been said in the consultation rounds, namely that the system of government parties is now in place, will be best suited for what is most profitable to do, and that is simple and clear conditions. The Right Party and the Advance Party can argue against this, but it is not my claim at all, it was among other things. The claim made by the medical association at the hearing of the committee. We know that in the drugs field, for example, there are different views about whether this is true in this sector. So I think the government parties disapprove, in a bit arrogantly, rather important criticism as if it were totally irrelevant. I rather think the government parties should try to argue convincingly that this reform can also contribute to the increased treatment of the more complicated, and at least the less profitable suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2027	I think it's more interesting with an ideological debate about the patient's participation than about private actors. In the future, we will experience a huge change in the way patients are treated, and where patients are given greater participation. Norwegian health services are built of large buildings, you get a letter in the post office saying that you can visit in a month, and if that is not the case then you have to wait quite a few more months. This is going to be turned upside down, and it's the providers that have to contribute much more when the patient can. Today, free hospital choice is used by approx. 15 pst. of patients – there is no large participation by the patient. It's been kind of squiggly to figure out. What is SV's solution to that? Is there more of the public, more bureaucracy – more of the old-fashioned – or are we going to use more actors to turn the tiles a little bit easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2035	I think there's a part that can be done to improve the free hospital choice, and SV is for that. But one should remember that one of the things that are worrying, among other things. around it, it turns out that it is the most resource-intensive patients who are best able to find the way in the system. In this respect, the civil parties should be careful not to create systems in the name of freedom – for patients – which in practice benefit only some patient groups. Then there will be no more freedom for very many. So the question is, who really gets more freedom from this reform? Is it basically the patient, or is it the providers of commercial healthcare that get more freedom, that can establish more than today offers they know they earn money on, and are far safer than today that they will get paid, and now also paid from the state? It is the problem of the free choice of treatment that this transfers priority power to actors who primarily need to make money in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2045	Today, many patients wait unnecessarily long for necessary treatment in hospitals and elsewhere. At the same time, there may be open capacity in both public and private treatment sites. It can be experienced as frustrating for those who are waiting. Patients with good finances can buy themselves out of line, while they have to wait with poor advice. The result is a development towards a more two-part healthcare service and a reduction in the uptake of a publicly funded healthcare service. It's a development that the government doesn't want. We want a publicly funded health service that is so good that people choose it. Then we have to use all the good forces, both in private and public institutions. The Government considers that increasing competition through, inter alia, The establishment of free treatment choices will also stimulate public institutions to become better and more effective. In this way, it is ensured that these establishments are still the bearer of a publicly funded health system, where the most ill are first treated. In order to achieve the government's ambition for a more accessible healthcare service, where the patient and the patient's right to choose are at the centre, both public and private institutions should be given greater freedom to make better use of the capacity, and private forces should be freed. Free treatment options will be a central tool to reduce unnecessary waiting, increase patient choice and help to improve the response of public hospitals to patients. The free choice of treatment is a broad and three-pillar reform: Firstly, patients are given the right to free treatment. Patients with the right to the necessary specialist health care should be able to choose where they will be treated from among approved establishments – on public account. Compliant individuals can – within defined disciplines – provide health services at a fixed price. Secondly, regional health establishments shall purchase more from private individuals through tenders. It is important to stress that the primary instrument for purchasing the free capacity of private individuals should also be tender in the future. Therefore, in the Enterprise Protocol for 2015, I have asked health regions to increase the acquisitions of private suppliers. Thirdly, public hospitals are given greater freedom. Most of the patient treatment will continue in public hospitals. We have now removed the ceiling that limits how many patients could treat the public hospitals, and increased the appropriations for the public hospitals. There have been many and partly critical opinions during the consultation round. We've been listening to the hearings. One of the grips is to merge free hospital choices and free treatment choices. It strengthens and simplifies patients’ rights. In addition, we have proposed that all rights applicable to free choice of hospitals should also apply in free choice of treatment. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have always fought for the rights of the patient, from the introduction by the Syse Government of the first treatment periods in 1990 to the introduction by the Bondevik II Government of the right to an individual medical deadline in 2003, which the Red-Green parties voted against only when the Right Party and the Advance Party submitted the proposal as early as 1999. It is striking to see which scary images are drawn from the opposition on free treatment choices. But it once again evokes the exact same arguments when the same parties ten years ago warned against the introduction of free hospital choice, a system the red-green parties stood together to be afraid of the consequences of. And the exact same arguments were used against an individual medical deadline. Now this is the only answer of the opposition parties in this discussion. I'm glad they're learning a little bit of the story when it's going to end up about arrangements that they were first afraid of. But they do not see that they are wrong this time either. Again, the opposition parties show that they take the side of the system, not the side of the patients. Creating the patient's healthcare is about putting the patient's needs in the centre. Then one has to be willing to make changes and ask: if the patient had to decide, what would the system have looked like then? The answer has been given by the government and the cooperation parties: We let the patient decide. Let me remind you that those who are covered by the right to free treatment are patients who are entitled to treatment. These are patients who need treatment. The system that the red-greens want to preserve is the same system that after their eight years of power has given increased waiting times and longer waiting lists. Now their answer is: more of the same thing. Our government and our cooperation parties have seen that this is not enough. We need new ideas and better solutions. Free treatment is about giving patients strengthened rights, as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have promised and have tradition for, and that is part of our common values. It's about having confidence and respect for the individual, and giving each individual power in the healthcare system as well. It is about belief in diversity and the certainty that private and especially non-profit actors are a necessary complement to a strong public health service – that simply believing that interaction and cooperation make society better, and that diversity also leads to a diversity of good solutions. The Labour Party has already promised that they will reverse this reform as soon as they get the chance, if they return to government. It's worth noting. It's not the first time the Workers' Party is against strengthening the patient's rights, but it's perhaps the first time they're warning that they're going to choose to deprive patients of their rights. As the Rusmis users' association, RIO, wrote: ‘The working party has decided to go to the elections in 2017 to scrap the reform and intensify the already weak rights of those addicts.’ Those are strong words, and they come from the patients themselves. They know how bad it is to stand in line and wait for treatment, when motivation can quickly disappear and one falls back in a devastating and sometimes fatal abuse. It is not by chance that the representatives of drug users are most committed. The reform will first be implemented in the field of drugs and mental health protection. I'm glad we're now starting by strengthening the choice of exactly these patients. It is time for patients with drug problems and mental health challenges to be given priority in healthcare. For once, we see that a reform aimed at strengthening patients' rights is introduced first in the field of drugs and mental health. That's exactly what this government is doing because we're prioritizing these areas, along with our cooperation parties. That's why we reintroduced the golden rule that health regions should give priority to drugs and mental health, which was removed by the previous government. We now ensure that people who need drug treatment receive treatment when they are motivated to do something about their own abuse — not three to four months later. I record that some parties believe it is problematic that the patient is given the opportunity to choose private actors instead of what is the alternative, to stand in the public queue. It is claimed that this is a privatisation of healthcare that poses a threat to public hospitals. I do not agree with that. I think the most important thing is that the patient gets prompt treatment. I also believe that the person who is waiting is in agreement. I notice that the opposition is alarming that free treatment options mean commercialization. This shows that they have a strange picture of how the treatment field in e.g. The slider field works. For the truth, it is the ideal organisations and institutions that have been the drivers and have dominated the development of treatment provision for these patient groups. There are firefighters who have wanted to make a difference, who have set up, worked and been there when the breakaways have needed treatment. When we introduce free treatment choices, the same organisations, foundations and institutions will have the opportunity to receive more patients if they can, and patients who are in line may want them. That's why I'm glad this day has come, where the government and our cooperation parties show that we're once again taking the patient's side, that we're once again showing that we're gathering to strengthen the patient's rights, and that together we show that we're doing well what's our vision, that's to create the patient's health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2108	In 2007, a trial of free treatment was launched by the Danish civil government. Danish patients should then be able to choose to be treated freely after a certain number of days, even with individuals who did not have an agreement with the public. Then you made an agreement on a piece price, but without volume constraints, and you started it. Over a few years, the following happened: the costs came out of control, waiting times increased because of the need to shift to the free choice point of the private sector, and a public space debate was held that resources were now being moved from the public health sector to private actors. The end of the visa was that the same bourgeois government took away the whole scheme and went to free hospital choice, which you have today, and which we have here. What does the Minister of Health think is the main difference between the failed experiment in Denmark and what is being rolled out here now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2115	The significant difference is enough that Tove Karoline Knutsen's version of what happened in Denmark is not necessarily what happened in Denmark. One of the main criticisms of the Danish system that the Danish National Audit Office raised was the way in which the price of treatment was determined. The main criticism of the Danish solution was that it contributed to one paying too much for the treatment that was done by the private operators. It's an experience that I've learned from, and that's also why we have established another system to determine the price of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2122	This is not only about the price of the piece, it is also about whether you should have a roof, a frame or a volume limit for the treatment provided under private law. We have some examples in Finnmark, which I have presented to the Minister of Health, of how volume and intensity of treatment can really get the cost of increasing dramatically. So I ask again: if the Minister of Health sees that there is no volume limit and does not affect the private in the free choice of treatment, and that some of the same mechanisms are going to swing here in Norway, will he scrap this free treatment option scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2129	The choice of treatment includes people entitled to treatment. What makes the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen think it is more socio-economically useful to allow these patients to wait unnecessarily long for treatment when they are already entitled to and need treatment? What is it that makes the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen think that the state saves money on letting addicts who are motivated to become drug free, wait two to three months before they get an offer of treatment, when there is free space for private operators – private ideal actors who were closed when the Workers' Party sat at the rudder, from Phoenix Haga in Eastfold to the Finnmarks' collective in the north, who did not have the opportunity to offer treatment to people who had rights, to patients who were rated rights, and who were in a desperate situation? Had the friends, neighbors and family who could stand up for them and pay, they obviously had the opportunity to buy the available capacity. Now they get treatment, completely independent of their own economy, the family's economy and a local commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2136	Governments refer to free treatment options as a reform that will strengthen patient rights so that patients can choose where to treat them. Read a case, see that free treatment options are a system in which we have private providers with and without assessment competence, and private providers with and without agreement with regional enterprises. If a patient wishes to choose treatment from a private provider without agreement with the public and without assessment competence, then a private provider must first go to the public or to a private provider with assessment competence and then choose a private provider without agreement or without assessment competence. I want to say that this is a pretty complicated system for a patient to get into. We know that free hospital choices, which are a simpler system, are only used by 15 pst. or something like that. So my question is how does the Council of State think this will be a simple system for patients to get involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2141	This will be a much simpler system than the system we have today, not least simpler than what was under the previous government. For the patient, free treatment choices and free hospital choice will be one and the same scheme. They don't have to care about who pays the bill. It is the available capacity that will increase, and thus the patient's choices. It'll be the same rights that apply, and the patient doesn't have to worry about who's taking the bill. The fact that there is someone who has assessment competence and someone who does not have assessment competence to grant rights is an existing scheme today in which the previous government has not cleared up. We are now clearing this up by making it quite clear that healthcare companies can also, by agreement, give private operators the opportunity to grant rights, as has been the practice in many places. Then we have the challenge of e.g. private contract specialists, who are a very integrated part of public health services, do not have that opportunity today. We want to start a pilot project just to make it even easier for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2148	The system of free hospital choice is today such that it is less favourable to opt for treatment outside of a health-care establishment because the health-care establishment receives less reimbursement and the patient receives travel expenses. It's a hindrance to more people choosing it probably. To what extent does the Council of State believe that it will prevent free choice of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2154	Obviously, if you don't get your travel expenses covered – and when you get a larger personal cost – it will be something that makes you think twice. Now it is that most people will also choose treatment sites that are nearby within that scheme. But when, for example, For those patients whom we now introduce for the first time in the field of drug and mental health, there are also many patients who are willing to receive treatment elsewhere than where they live, and get a different offer, because they offer something other than what they can get nearby. So we have to look at these arrangements, and maybe make it easier. Then it's also important that the 20 million. kr, which we apply to the implementation of this, also helps to improve the solutions available within free hospital choice, which are now partly heavy and old-fashioned because they are based on old digital solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2159	There is a contradiction in the arguments of the bourgeois parties: on the one hand we are told that this reform will mean a lot, private will be able to deal with much more. On the other hand, we're becoming concerned that this involves extensive privatisation, defying that it's just an illusion. Both parts can't possibly be true at once. If we get a strong growth in private patient treatment, we who are concerned about extensive commercialisation must also be right. There is no need to argue in two ways at once. I would like to ask the Council of State about one thing that has been going on in the consultation rounds, and it is linked to the concern of health businesses for increased competition for key personnel. They pointed that out in the first round of consultations, and in the hearing in the committee they were very clear that they did not think they had received a satisfactory response from the government. Therefore, I wonder whether health companies are wrong or whether the Minister of Health is also concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2166	The light-ground's experience of contradiction says a lot about the difference in perspective between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the one hand and the SV on the other. This is a reform that means a lot to the individual patient who is given the opportunity to receive treatment. For each addicted patient, who, instead of waiting for months to get a treatment offer, actually gets the opportunity to choose a vacancy that stands there today, this means a lot. But it's not going to mean a lot to the system, which the representative Lightbaking obviously is the most busy, because in volume this doesn't mean that this involves a lot of patients. That's why when you talk about this, it sounds like the elephant that was scared by the mouse. That's what's our point. This is a reform that means a lot to the individual. A system in which the public health system will take care of the majority of treatment in Norway will continue to exist as a result of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2171	Free treatment in the specialist health service is one of eight important ideological reforms from the Right-Fremskrit Party government. This was an important statement by Højre State Secretary Kristin Holm Jensen in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation at yesterday's meeting in the Buskerudtinget in Drammen – an ideological reform. It has to produce great results. Private companies must diagnose and perform treatment for far more patients than today. Many counties are now planning new somatic and psychiatric hospitals – very expensive investments. My two questions are as follows: Does the Council expect that free treatment will result in a smaller proportion of the population being treated in public hospitals? Will this be taken into account in the capacity planned for the construction of new public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2178	I'm surprised that the representative Lysbakken, as I see it as a politician...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2183	Lundtägen!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2188	...the representative Lundtigen, regrets, who is concerned with political dividing lines, almost uses ideology as a shell word. This is a reform that shows a political dividing line in Norwegian policy, a political dividing line on the one hand between parties occupied by the individual, who are concerned that the individual patient should have an opportunity to choose, which is occupied by a variety of offers, and that having a diversity is a positive value in itself, and parties on the other hand who are more concerned with defending it at all times. Yes, it's about ideology, and ideology shouldn't be a shell word, but something politicians are proud of having in their backs as a background for the concrete policy as a leader. Then there are many people waiting in line, and our main challenge is that this should solve a capacity problem that public health services have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2195	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2198	In the 2013 election campaign, Right and Current Minister of Health Bent Höie promised that if they won the election, all patients would be allowed to go to any private clinic to be treated and then send the bill to the public. They called it free treatment choice. Today, we are discussing the draft law on the implementation of the reform of the prestige. The Minister, through the proposal, has moderated somewhat. The government calls the free choice of treatment ‘a three-pillar reform’, two of which are mainly a continuation of previous policies, but where capacity is increasingly purchased from private actors when necessary. We're in the Working Party for these parts. In this way, the use of resources continues to be managed from and to the community as part of the overall hospital service and can help to escape the queues. In addition, as part of the reform, the government is implementing simplifications in patients’ rights already adopted in the United Kingdom. This too is unproblematic. However, the last – and most controversial – part of the reform is the part in which private health institutions that meet certain requirements are allowed to compete with public hospitals to offer certain treatments, not as a supplement but as a competitor. The authorisation shall be managed by the Directorate-General for Health and shall not involve the use of competitive tendering procedures. For us, the introduction of free treatment options still raises so many open questions that it is difficult in several areas to interpret concretely what the impact of the proposals will actually be. For example, the question of the price to be paid to private individuals for each treatment should be addressed and further addressed, which is crucial to the attractiveness of the scheme to private commercial operators. Furthermore, in our opinion, several of the measures in the so-called third pillar are so deficiently investigated that in practice the Stortinget is invited to adopt a health-policy wonder package which has unclear effects on patients but which will contribute to more bureaucracy, increased uncertainty for necessary investments in hospitals and, in the long term, a less effective healthcare system. The proposals involve the construction of a new large approval, control and price bureaucracy. All the hearing bodies have warned against this. The scheme will also mean less health per krona, because it undermines the tendering procedures in hospitals. However, when those who lose their tenders are able to supply subsequent treatments under the free choice of treatment system, prices will be increased over time because the bidding rounds become less important to private operators. This isn't patient friendly, this isn't putting the patient in the center; this is putting private commercial operators in the center. When the funding takes place as a kind of estimate within a framework allocation, it makes the economy of our hospitals more unstable. When hospital income and expenditure become uncertain, the investment power of hospitals is also reduced. There is a threat to new construction, new equipment and new processes. The view of the Labour Party is that the reform therefore has the potential to resolve over time under the basic conditions of strong public hospitals in Norway, strong public hospitals in the nation have built up over decades, strong hospitals that are among the best in several areas of the world, but also strong hospitals that have a significant potential for improvement. It seems to me that Minister of Health Höie – and as the representative Wilhelmsen Troeen from the Right mentioned – is more concerned about ideology than about taking on what will actually do things better for patients, such as more places in the area of drugs and psychiatry, evening-open outpatient clinics in hospitals, larger ICT investments, more turns, more specialist nurses and other skilled workers, as well as better organisation and patient processes. All of this is for the benefit of the patient and has the patient in the center. Today, some have said, “Congratulations with the day! ” I am unfortunately more inclined and tempted to say about this day: Congrats!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2221	The government wants to use all the good forces, and we want a new course in interaction and cooperation between public and private and non-profit actors in the health sector. We also believe in the good dynamics of cooperation between the public, non-profit and private sectors. The patient’s needs shall be at the centre of the patient’s life, and such diversity contributes to freedom of choice, innovation and efficiency. This is the background to the proposal on free choice of treatment. In a free choice of treatment, patients who are eligible for treatment could choose treatment from private and non-profit institutions on their own account instead of waiting in the public line – even if the quota that the health region has has has been used up. In free hospital choice, health regions continued to set a quota for how many patients could be treated by private individuals, including non-profits. If the quota was used up, one could not be treated, and one was referred to queues in the public domain. It was then that the queues grew, and as the queues grew, the use of private insurance grew. And slowly, but surely, a class distinction was introduced in Norway where those who have an employer or have financial opportunities have been able to go out of line in the public sector and into the private sector and buy space. That's one of the things that we don't want to evolve further. That being said, the large volume of patient treatment will continue to occur in public hospitals. So here it's the biggest gain of free hospital choice will be, by reducing waiting times. This happens, among other things: through the reduction of the activity stack, which has been facilitated from 2015 onwards. The civil parties have been the drivers of introducing and extending legal rights for patients, and when the Workers' Party highlights free hospital choice as an extension and, as they believe, can contribute to better patient treatment, it must be remembered that it is not that long since they were critical of this right. In the comments in the setting, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV state that a new organisation and better management of the Norwegian specialist health service are necessary. I'm excited about what kind of organization and what models will come up. At least I haven't read it from the position and didn't hear it from the pulpit here today, other than that you're critical of the health company model. I also record that free treatment choice is primarily a reform for private healthcare providers, not a reform for patients. But it is true that when the queues accumulated, the Workers' Party was therefore ready to use funds so that more people could be treated privately. It is also worth noting that the Norwegian Medical Association believes that public hospitals still face some major challenges with waiting times, queues and insufficient capacity. The association is therefore in favour of measures and models that can improve the availability of the specialist health service for the population. This applies to those entitled to treatment — it is not freely available. We start with drugs and mental health protection, precisely because these groups have been down-prioritized in public health services. These are groups that have often recently been granted rights and reforms, and it is not that commercial actors are in a big queue to treat these patients. These patients have traditionally been treated by private, non-profit institutions that offer very good offers. Subject Council - Rusfeld’s main organisation supports the reform, precisely because they believe it improves the patient’s situation and reduces waiting time, and not least increases user involvement. It is therefore a cross-thinking that the Workers' Party will choose to waive the rights that are now being introduced. It's not to be on the team of those who are the furthest behind the line of health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2242	First of all, a great thank you to both the Left and the Christian People's Party, which clearly sees the value of this matter, and that this is actually a matter of strengthening some of the weakest patient groups we have, and their right to get help. After hearing some articles, and especially the line change with the council, I'm a little surprised, because you can almost get the impression that you're a little uncertain about which patients this is actually going to apply. Firstly, this applies to patients who have already received a right to treatment. It is not patients who, in their own discretion, simply feel like visiting any private actor and getting treatment out of it. No, these are patients who go to their regular school, who get what they're entitled to, i.e. a right to treatment. These are the people that this applies to. This means that a decision has already been made that these are patients who need help in the specialist healthcare system. It is this patient group that applies, not that everyone can get it at their own discretion. Secondly, this applies to the treatment of authorised health professionals; it is a recognised health care institution, and it is a health care institution that is subject to the same control to which the public is also subject, i.e. that it is not anyone who can establish a practice to treat these patients, it must be authorised, authorised personnel, etc. In other words, this matter is about putting patients in focus and giving them this right to treatment. Under the red-green government the cows still grew. In ordinary hospital operations, we had cows in the Norwegian hospitals at approx. 270 000 people waiting for treatment. Within the prison there were more than 4,000 people who wanted to get out of the prison, who actually stayed in line, and who never got the offer they so badly needed. These are the people you think should still be in line, because your ideological opinion is that you don't want to use anything other than public. It is also said that there is a fear of investment in Norwegian hospitals. In fact, this government has on the two budgets it has submitted, had a greater growth in somatic and patient care than the red-green government had in its reign. So the government shows that you need to bet on both. I would like to encourage the red-green politicians who here seem to be united that this is what you want to go against – the Labour Party has even said that this is something you want to reverse: Tell the drug user who has been in line for years, who has finally found the motivation to accept treatment to get out of this. Tell the drug user that no, sorry, but we have to ask for you to queue, and while you're standing there, we just get the chance that the motivation you now have is not gone when the time comes for you to get through. It's not about tearing down the public health system. It is about giving a patient group – now in the first place in the area of drugs and psychiatry – an opportunity to get an absolutely necessary and urgent treatment by making use of the full potential of the healthcare system. Across ideological dividing lines, this room should say that if we're going to be able to bring down the queues, and if we're going to be able to offer decent deadlines, we should take advantage of all the opportunities that are out there, and make sure that these patients who have waited and waited and waited, now finally see an opportunity to be taken seriously. No, they say red-green – if we come to power, you will again be put on the street and wait and wait and wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2264	Today, when we deal with the Patient and User Rights Act and the Special Health Service Act, it is the patients' best we have to keep everyone, at the highest level. The government proposes to introduce free treatment choices despite the high resistance of very many teams to the scheme. A large majority of the hearing bodies warn against the reform and indicate that it will not support the good and fair exploitation of the overall health resources we have. The working party is concerned that patients should be guaranteed a good offer with good quality and rapid assistance. Free treatment is by no means a guarantor of this, rather on the contrary. There are especially three issues I want to address in this article. The first is that free treatment choices transfer resources from public hospitals and community health services to private hospitals. Norwegian Nursing Association states: ‘In the assessment of the NSF, the government’s ‘treatment election reform’ will involve a level of private commercial services that we have not seen in Norwegian healthcare before.’ The Labour Party agrees with Norsk Nursing Association and believes that free treatment choice is primarily a reform for private healthcare providers. This is not a reform that primarily respects patients' rights. Then the representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen showed to the Norwegian Medical Association and said that they are for measures that will reduce waiting time. It would be worth taking away the whole truth from the Norwegian Medical Association, when they also say: ‘The most effective measure to reduce waiting times and queues is to ensure adequate framework conditions for public hospitals through increased budget appropriations.’ It's their full meaning, and it's worth bringing with them. At the Committee’s hearing, concerns were expressed by several of the regional health establishments that the overall responsibility for care has now been removed from the regions. It's in the regions you're close to the population, and that's where we find the public hospitals responsible for the clinical activity, which know the needs best. Now, when the Directorate of Health gets this task, you remove the allocation of resources from those who are responsible. A wider roll-out of free treatment options will thus imply strong and unbridled market management in the health sector, with the risk of getting a private hospital sector alongside, and without cooperation with public hospitals. We know that in the near future, there will be a shortage of people who will be complaining about the different health pros. The government is thus in the process of implementing a health policy that has the potential to close both financial and professional resources from the public to the private sector, with the very serious consequences it will have for the health services of solidarity, which aim to provide equivalent and good services to all citizens throughout the country. The choice of treatment can also lead to disproportionate priorities of public resources, as the supply is increased most in the case of simple disorders, which private actors find the most profitable to treat. In some areas, therefore, increased private competence can drain public hospitals for staff who already have a shortage. Then I have already talked – in the line change earlier – about the transfer of resources from processing to bureaucracy. But a good answer has still not come. Because it is clear that the reform will result in the need for a significant, new, large-scale approval, control and price bureaucracy. All the hearing bodies warned against it. I can't see that the Health Minister has answered these objections well enough earlier, and hope he will do so today. Finally, something that has already been mentioned here, but which I would like to stress the importance of: when the funding of the system of free treatment choices following the government's proposal is to be done as a kind of estimate within the framework, it makes the economy of hospitals more unstable. Then there is a threat to new construction, to new equipment and new processes, just as it has been said here in the past. This will lead to a less effective health care system. So free treatment choices are not a reform in favour of Norwegians. It's a prestige reform from the government to the private providers. Much of what is good at the Norwegian health service is good, and it does not offer good enough solutions for what needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2303	It is a challenge that many patients wait unnecessarily long for treatment when there is free capacity among private actors. Over eight years with the Workers' Party in the Ministry of Health, several hundred thousand people were waiting for surgery or other health care. For too many years, those in need of treatment for drug dependence or the need for mental health care have been under-priority. For optimal treatment outcomes, these patients must be treated promptly. Politically allowing good treatment institutions to have unused facilities is not only a poor use of the available capacity, but also a signal to these patients that they are not so important. We experience that because of long waiting periods, ruspacers who are motivated for treatment are discouraged, and they are not heard when it comes to treatment demands. Many lose their courage and therefore continue to rush. We see a great need for increased efforts in the field of drugs. Together with the free choice of treatment, the government is taking several important steps to improve treatment provision for these patient groups. We strengthen the prevention work in the municipalities, and we facilitate that the municipalities should be more effective in following up patients after the end of treatment. In the Right we have pointed out for a long time that the weakest in our society have had too many years of difficulty in getting quick and good treatment. Free treatment choices will reduce their waiting time by exploiting capacity in both private, non-profit and public institutions. This is due to patients and patients’ needs, which is the main reason why the government is now introducing free treatment options. People in need of help — people with drug dependence or depression — are now given clear guidelines to ensure that they receive the necessary health care if necessary. I would like to stress – I stress again – that it is not a goal for the maximum number of patients to opt out of public health care. Our goal is to reduce waiting time, strengthen patient choices and stimulate public hospitals to also treat more people. The main tasks of the specialist health service shall continue to be addressed in the public hospitals. Right-wing wants equality for all in the health care system, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. We've seen an unfortunate development towards a two-part healthcare system in Norway under eight years of red-green rule. Health insurance paid by employers and those with a good personal economy has ensured faster health care than those in public health queues. It is unfortunate that this trend continues because too many people wait unnecessarily long for treatment. The fact that the Workers' Party says they will go to the elections in 2017 to scrap the reform, and with that intensifies already weak rights that the addicts have, is just very sad. However, it is not surprising that the Workers' Party is fighting against a reform that will give patients greater power. They were long critical of the introduction of free hospital choice, a right we now see that they embrace hotly. When the Right wanted to introduce a statutory right to the necessary health care within an individual and medically justified period, the proposal was defeated by the left, which considered that the right was not so important as to have to be legislated. The workers' party's promised reversal of the reform thus joins in the series of a long struggle against giving patients greater power, a struggle to defend the system. Last right in government, we made sure that those with drug problems were granted patient rights, that they were covered by the Patient Rights Act. Now we give the same patient group free treatment choices as to where they want to be treated. A reversal, as the Workers' Party has signaled, will make hurt worse for all patients waiting for treatment. It's unprofitable for the community, and there's a poor exploitation of precious skills and capabilities that we know are available to the public and private.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2322	Today is a feast day for patients, users and relatives. Today, the Progress Party, together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, strengthens patients' rights. For the Advancement Party, there is consideration for patients, for those who have had to wait for a long time in some treatment queue, and for those who need surgery and treatment in hospitals in the future, who weigh the most. Within eight years of red-green government, patients and users could experience increased waiting times and longer health cows. Many experience the waiting time and ignorance that often follow, as frustrating and suitable for creating insecurity. For many, it is difficult or impossible to carry out work and everyday tasks during the waiting period. For others, damage or disease may worsen when waiting time is too long. This is not a proper development. The Progress Party therefore opted to strengthen patients’ and users’ rights in response to healthcare. We opted for more people to choose the treatment site themselves – on public account. We chose to use all the good forces to provide more faster and better treatment. It is this Progress Party, together with its cooperation parties, today delivers. And I can assure you that I and the Progress Party are proud of that. Over eight red-green years, the number of persons taking out health insurance increased sharply. A two-part healthcare system has developed, where health insurance or a good personal economy has been able to ensure faster treatment and health care than people waiting in the public queue. The queue is not cool, although the Workers' Party later seems to think so. The party of progress does not want a two-part health service. We want everyone to be able to get prompt and good treatment when disease and injury occur. Through free treatment options, patients are given the opportunity to cut down on waiting time and choose where to go for treatment, regardless of the size of the wallet. The security of good quality treatment when disease or damage occurs is essential for the trust in the Norwegian health system and our welfare community. This trust is created by taking patient and user experience seriously. The Progress Party has done so. And, of course, user organisations are quite clear; they warmly welcome free treatment choices. We start with free treatment choices in the area of drugs and mental health. This is a group of patients who have been at the bottom of the health policy table for too long. Now we in the Progress Party and our cooperation parties are lifting this group of patients. We give them the freedom of choice they deserve. The Progress Party believes that the freedom to choose between different service providers is a quality issue in itself. With new actors come new ideas and new ways of working. The health services of the future cannot afford to shut out those who will contribute to the development of our common well-being. The party sees possibilities, not constraints, by giving more people the right to choose. It's amazing, but it's worth noting that the Workers' Party will go to elections in 2017 on a large-scale reverse policy – but we hear little about their own solutions. What do they want to do with the health cows? What do they want to do with the waiting times? How will they promise people who have been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table for years? The working party has made it clear that they will reverse free treatment options and, with this, weaken patients’ rights. By doing so, the Workers' Party makes it crystal clear; they will not listen to the experiences and wishes of patients and users. We in the Progress Party and our cooperation parties will do what we can to avoid the Workers' Party having this opportunity – for us, the users and patients will always come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2352	The Right Party and the Progressive Party have secured a majority in favour of a reform in which they believe. I understand that the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos is happy. That being said, I do not share the joy of content, because that's where we separate layers. The representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen lives well with the fact that the Workers' Party is not satisfied. And that's just supposed to be missing. Fortunately, neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party are to create workers' party voters. It would have gotten out. No, it's not worrying. What is worrying is that this reform is an absolutely ideological rather than a pragmatic reform. We've seen it in other areas. Good recordings are not taken into account. The representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen would like to live well with the fact that the Workers' Party is not satisfied. It is less reliable that they do not – in this case either – listen to others who have important recordings. Health professionals and users, for example, who are afraid of personnel fragmentation and fragmentation, that competence environments will disappear – are they worth listening to? Recordings on the centralisation of specialist health services and the principle that as much as possible of the specialist health service is close to where you live – is it worth listening to? That taxpayers’ contributions to AS Norway are reduced because profits are exported to accounts abroad — is it worth listening to? The low trust of Kari Kjønaas Kjos and other representatives from this pulpit claim that the Workers' Party has for public services and public hospitals is not really understandable. The Labour Party will strengthen the public hospitals. That's our option. The Labour Party will not have an ideological approach to the use of private actors. We want a pragmatic approach, where the public is just getting more control over the private actors, unlike what is now being put up for in this reform. The Workers' Party will develop the public hospitals. The working party will have a waiting period, strengthen competence, increase user involvement and improve the quality of public hospitals and public employees. The lack of confidence in the rhetoric of the government that public health services are poor is quite obvious. The working party is to use private actors as an instrument to improve health care, to increase competence and to improve the quality of treatment. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will, despite the fact that there are major concerns about bureaucracy and administration, for example, implement the reform. Are those concerns important to listen to? On 16 March, TV2 had a notice of an increase in bureaucracy during this government, and much indicates that the increase in this period is the same as in the previous period — the only period in the last period of government in which the proportion of bureaucrats has increased. The last time it happened was when the current prime minister was the municipal minister. It is very positive that the government prioritises addicts and people with mental disorders. I think that's good. But it is not positive that the government's rhetoric suggests that those who do not agree with this ideologically based reform are against good treatment for addicts and mentally ill. Actually, I don't think of that kind of rhetoric. That's not true. The working party wants these patient groups to be well treated. We do not want to scrape reforms. We have a government period behind us where we have presented and delivered hospital reform, rus reform, cooperation reform, public health reform, dementia reform and ICT reform – and then we are talking about this pulpit as if the Workers' Party are system defenders. I don't think the opposition has come along well in the hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2369	This matter is so obviously about ideology. Where we put the patient in the center, the red-green ones have the most care for the system. Where we're most concerned about the one that's being treated, the red-green ones are most concerned about who's treating. Too many patients wait unnecessarily long, while there is free capacity in private institutions. Eight years of red-green government gave longer health cows and waiting time for patients. Over time, we have seen a trend towards a more two-part healthcare service, where health insurance paid by the employer or with a good personal economy has been able to secure health care faster than people waiting in public queues. In the case of free treatment choices, patients are given the opportunity to reduce the waiting time and choose where to treat themselves, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. The free choice of treatment will be a health insurance for all. All the important aspects of patient treatment will continue to occur in public hospitals, but free treatment options will be an important safety valve for patients and an incentive for public hospitals to improve even better. So there's this safety valve that some people have so much against. Where we put the patient in the center, the red-greens, who lost government power with historically high health cows, have the most care for the system. So we could say, had we just known what kind of system the red-green, with the working party in the head, the defender, this would have been easier. Both the Centre Party and SV have come up with solutions other than the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party has recently been alone in its defence of today's business model. Therefore, it is alarming that they write in this case that a new organisation of the Norwegian specialist health service is necessary. So the Labour Party is going to choose not only to reverse free treatment options; they obviously also believe that a new organisation of specialist health services is necessary. The confusion becomes complete when the Workers' Party thinks that the solution to bring down the queues is more money into the same system they think needs to be reorganized. The Labour Party has already admitted that their old age policy is too poor. In this case, they say that the specialist health service needs to be reorganised. So there's not much left of the Workers' Party's health policy. The only thing we know for sure is that they are opposed to any reform based on the patient. They don't want to help build the patient's health care. They want to reorganize into something we don't know what is. The health policy of the Workers' Party can be boiled down to the resistance to any change proposed by the Government. Several have claimed that those with drug challenges or mental health challenges are not fit to be part of the system of free choice of treatment. Claiming that these will be bad fit to make their own choices is a disappointing stigmatisation. People with mental health challenges or drug dependence should have at least the same right to choose the form and place of treatment as somatic patients. For these, the involvement of users and the choice of treatment sites may be a decisive factor in the outcome of treatment. In addition, statistics from the Norwegian Patient Register show that these are groups with the highest degree of clarity and waiting for treatment. We are making free treatment choices so that those who have waited for the longest time will now be the first to do so. So it's what SV calls guinea pigs – a label Rusmis users' association would have asked for. As the RIO itself says: a label we do not want at all – perhaps especially from people who have not suggested to correct the capacity problems in daily treatment. Free treatment is an attempt to do so. Come with another one, we're all ears. So the party that has as its trademark to talk about problems is going to be short when we're going to solve them. When we deal with the failure of the red-green government, the capacity problems in drug treatment, those who get hurt are called long-term recognition and help, test rabbits. If we take the patient as our starting point, the patient must have greater influence in his own treatment. While the right is concerned with the one being treated, the red-green ones are concerned with who is treating. This is the main dividing line in Norwegian health policy. The reform of free treatment choices is an important step towards patients’ healthcare. We equip Norway for the future and will use all good forces on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2390	I will try to say something about what the Workers' Party believes in this matter, without these very big words being used all the time about us. If the patient had to decide, I am absolutely convinced that they would say they want the best treatment offer, and what works. What has surprised me after I started health policy is that the public has not been better at ensuring that the treatment services we provide to the most vulnerable patients — and vulnerable people too, because it also reflects itself when it comes to child protection — are good enough. My experience is – when I have spoken to them, and through the feedback I have received, perhaps especially from the West and the region I come from – that the private have dominated for a very long time. Someone has succeeded, but a lot of people have not. So I miss a greater effort to put in place the quality indicators in this area, so that we can separate the good treatment provision from those who do not keep target. It deserves the most vulnerable and vulnerable patients, both in the field of drugs and mental health protection. That's why it's amazing that you start by giving some kind of play before you have it in place, because that's not good enough as it is today. We in the Labour Party have a pragmatic approach to this, because there are also bad offers in the public sector, but we have less control over the bad offers in the private sector. It surprises us that when we increased the funds allocated to drug treatment, we tried to say in the Workers' Party: Leave health companies to say how these funds can be used, so that they have the best possible effect. But no, they were to be given priority only to private providers. I've been to the Floni Collective, as Health Bergen does. It's an incredibly good offer. It's drug-free, but it's demanding, with three phases, and the heaviest patients are inside. What is now said about patient rights and increased freedom of choice does not mean that they can apply to the Floni collective, because there is no room for space, because Health Bergen does not have funds for them. They have had to reduce the offer, in parallel with increasing the funds for LAR. So you don't really have a hit there, and then you don't have that freedom of choice either. We also asked to know what Health West had to pay for the new 40 places they got. We didn't get any information about that. But Health West said they were in a monopoly situation, for the whole increase was to take place within the tenders that were already there, and they could negotiate. Some of them didn't have enough space. During the hearing, it was also found that not all of these private and non-profit organisations had flown with places and new offers. So they were clear on that, as well as what they said about pension challenges. Few people have mentioned that this offer is about increasing the number of long-term places, while the professional input we have received says that outpatient treatment in the community has the greatest effect. Well, that's what we've been told about, and that's what the Medical Association said in the hearing. I have also received this feedback when I have been in dialogue with the Special Department for Drugs in Health Bergen. So this alignment helps to shift resources from where they work best, to long-term. It's not for the patient's benefit either. Our starting point is that we want the quality indicators to be put in place, so that we can distinguish, and so that patients – especially the ruspacers – get the best offers. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important for the Workers' Party to prevent us from getting more heavy drug users. And it's a little problematic with the citizens, who on the one hand think it's okay to increase access to alcohol through the tax-free system, as long as on the other hand they offer freedom of choice when it comes to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2413	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2416	I just want to go back briefly to what the council said in the line change, where he concluded that this reform, as it now stands, will have something to say for single patients, but nothing specific to say for the volume of patient treatment. Then, in that case, the bourgeois parties have to decide to stop saying two things at once, because we are constantly told that this reform is important in order to bring down health cows. That can't be right, if that's what the state council said, it was right. It's a straightforward clarification, I think. Once again, two things that are contradictory can't be right at once. I think that some representatives suggest that this reform should gradually be extended to include such issues, and that there is therefore not a question of prioritising drug and psychiatry patients to other patients, but a question of introducing new principles in the way we prioritise throughout the healthcare system. Then I have to say that I think parts of the vocabulary here from some of the bourgeois representatives are approaching what I would call the low school choice level. If anyone thinks that this is how some of us who are in this room have chosen to become health politicians because we don't care about patients, but are more concerned about the system, I'm a little surprised. I don't think anybody really believes that. The ideological contradictions in this are not about, as the representative of Stensland said, that there are some who put the patient first, and some who put the system first. It's about believing in different systems in order to give patients the best health care they can. I think we get a much better debate if we take the debate with a fundamental respect that we all want the best, but that the contradictions between us are about us believing in different instruments. Then we will also have a more interesting political debate, I think. I guess when a person falls to a level of debate where a person makes it look like some of us really don't care about the most vulnerable patients, etc., it's often that kind of rhetoric is a sign that the political project is not so solid. In this case, I think that's right, because the reform that is going through the first part of today, is a reform that, initially before the elections, with the election result we got, shouldn't have had a majority in this Chamber, because the majority of the representatives belong to parties that voted against it. It is a reform that has received strong criticism from important hearing bodies, but we have not heard the bourgeois parties today refute key points in that criticism – related to priority, related to the competition for key personnel and the emergence of a larger commercial sector in the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2427	There is reason to conclude, after such a debate as we have had today, that through the changes that one makes, the majority of the European Parliament today will give up important opportunities for overall planning and also for making fair health priorities. It is clear that neither more resources nor more professionals of the type of change you are making today, of this kind of privatisation, but health policy tools are likely to be fewer in the years to come. When the Storting has legalized that the purpose of the specialist health service is to provide good and equivalent services to all those who need it, when they need it, regardless of age, sex, residence, economics and ethnic background, it is in the opinion of the Center Party that public hospitals must be the carrier. Then there may be reason to be system-critical towards the public hospitals and the public hospital. There's no doubt about it. That was in particular also the right when they were in opposition. We don't have much to do with that right now, but I think that's why. But it's important to look a little further forward in this reform, and I share the representative's opinion that this reform has the potential to rock strong public hospitals, to make them vulnerable, and in particular the local hospitals. The Health Minister has his hospital speech on New Year's Eve. He then signaled that there could be a weakening of emergency surgery preparedness in Norway. It was a proposal and a signal that encountered great resistance – rightly so. No government, maybe not the windiest thing we've seen in Norway's history, is going to get something like that without a fight. But free treatment options are something that in the longer term may be some of the emergency aid the blue batches need to also do something about the local hospitals. Because there is no doubt that many local hospitals today ensure their activities and the whole they have, through planned operations where they often serve a much larger area than the population base for which they are based. The thinning is an example of that, and in that context, free treatment choices will make it complicated to predict how the patient flow will go. Private health business can establish itself experienceably where markets are the largest, where most live, and it may be more difficult to maintain offers as one looks at some local hospitals today. So the public offer is going to be much more vulnerable. But then what's left is that if there's going to be more private entry, then the public hospitals will still be responsible. They will be responsible for the overall offer, but they risk being tapped for both skilled professionals, for the most profitable patients, and for crucial experience in driving further development. The centre party believes that today's proposal is a bad one. We need a system-critical debate on the Norwegian hospital system, but not in the direction of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2442	This has become an interesting debate. I would first like to say that I think, although someone is trying to make it in a different way, that all the arguments we have heard today from the red-green parties testify that you are more concerned about defending the system as it is today than giving solutions to improve the situation of the 240 000 who are in line and who are waiting. There's talk of fair prioritization. These are patients who are entitled to treatment and who are waiting. This is also a reform aimed at ensuring greater efficiency in public hospitals, which is to ensure that we receive more patient treatment. Our government has arranged for a larger increase in patient treatment in the specialist health service in its two budgets than the red-greens were adopted in their eight years. So when the Workers' Party promises to reverse the reform, because that's what we've read in the media, they choose to weaken patient rights. It must be said that the Workers' Party will once again defend the role of the system rather than talk about the patient's role. Users, represented by the largest organisation on the drug site, RIO, also say that it is ‘heart-to-heart’ to users who have looked forward to choosing treatment freer than before’. Because that's what this is all about. It's about some patients being able to choose freers. Then it's heartbroken, because the patient is forgotten about it all, and those who lose for the Workers' Party's defense of the system, are the most vulnerable patients. I haven't heard a solution today other than that we're going to keep what doesn't work, that's the system with which the red-green governments ruled for eight years. The representative, Ruth Grung, is asking for quality indicators. We've also done that, for eight years, and I hope this gets into place in a escalating plan that we're going to see in the drug field. The working party seems to believe that a solidarity healthcare system is about patients being jointly and severally in line. We have more faith in giving patients treatment and life back. Yes, this reform is ideologically conditional. We have an ideology of strengthening the social security network. We have an ideology of creating the patient's healthcare. So the Labour Party and the other red-green parties are quite right: it's these ideologies that are behind the reform of free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2454	The representative, Karianne Tung, from the Workers' Party, spoke about an amazing package. I am most amazed at how the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV talk about the ideal actors with distrust and distrust. They're the ones that account for 99 pst. of the private treatment in Norwegian hospitals and in the specialist health service. In the drug treatment, the ideal actors account for about 50 p.m. of the treatments, and are so large. So it's the ideal actors behind it. In the somatic treatment, the three largest hospitals are Lovisenberg, the Diakon home and the Feiring Clinic. They are also ideal actors, and the Feiring Clinic is owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease. A large private hospital is planned in Norway. It's the new celebration clinic at the Gardermoen, an investment of well over 1 billion. kr, and the Cancer Association shall enter the owner’s side together with LHL. I have not heard anyone who is more enthusiastic about that establishment than the Workers' Party, and the Secretary-General of the LHL and the Kreft Association, respectively, is a head of the Workers' Party and a former State Secretary of the Workers' Party. The common feature of the ideal actors is that they are organised as limited liability companies when they come into operation. In fact, they are private and therefore taxable to the community. These are the ideal actors SV will frame their proposal for a top-level tax for private health businesses to contribute to research and development and recruitment. The left agrees that private individuals should contribute to research and development and to recruitment, but this can be done fine without imposing additional taxes on them. An example of this: Modum Bad today has a daily price of around NOK 3000, while the public offers for similar treatment are around NOK 12 000. I'm pretty curious about what that difference is. I understand that public hospitals naturally have higher system costs and structural expenditure, but there is a significant price difference, and that is why this actor SV will punish with additional fees to the community to contribute to research and development. Here's a lot I don't get to grips with who's going to help create both better quality and increased capacity, and it's that there's no commercial private actors on the stairs to build large-scale hospitals in Norway. This is about facilitating that the ideal actors can contribute to creating a better health service for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2465	When a person listens to the debate, one would think that there was a difference in the hall between those who want to use private services and ideals, and those who don't want to do so, but that's not the case. Private and non-profit providers are making a lot of effort today, and the Central Party wants them to continue. The point of this case is that the public gives up the right to control the overall supply of health. Now private people no longer need to have an agreement with the public hospitals; they are practically free to set up. The proposition states that health policy concerns should not be taken into account when granting authorisation to private providers. That's the point here, not that one will have increased use of private or more ideals – it may be very good where there are queues. The point is that a person gives up the right to control the overall supply of health. And then the consequence is that it can go out on other patients, so that the so-called right some people have for free treatment options, will go out on other patients. It can go beyond immediate help, it can go beyond key personnel training, and it can go beyond research, because the health funds are distributed in disparate ways. That's the point of this case, that one in practice gives private freedom of establishment. The public is then swayed back. And this does one because one has faith in competition. There's an ideological difference, but the consequence we're very critical of. The representative Örmen Johnsen asked what the Center Party wanted with new organization and better leadership. Yes, we want new organisation and better rental. Because it's not just a matter of money in public. We think we can get more patient treatment and less queues to do it the way they have done it in Scotland, and we will come back to the Storting in our own way and tell you more in detail about our solution to it. When it comes to psychotic patients, it's a simplification as it's being made here today. 80 pst. psychiatry is referred to outpatient treatment. There is no part in this system. In the case of rubrics, the court is included in the day-to-day treatment. If they are to receive day care and if they are to receive outpatient treatment, this is not included in the right introduced today. And these patients need a lack of offer and long follow-up, and that some have a care-for-responsibilities. Many have given feedback that the implementation of the reform is the very thing that is going to be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2474	The Minister of Health – and others – claims that the Workers' Party will take rights from patients if we get in position. That's wrong. And now you're going to hear: we're not going to remove a single patient right, we're going to strengthen it, and we're not going to remove treatment sites that have good competence in their field, and that take important tasks for the community for the benefit of the individual patient. However, we will reverse two things: the principle that private operators should be able to treat patients completely disconnected from the public health system, and the principle that private providers in the free choice of treatment should be able to treat patients without any volume restrictions or treatment frameworks, as public hospitals have. First, the release of private health care professionals is a recipe that nobody, absolutely none, believes is the right way to go. On the contrary, here we have talked about warmth, and completely in agreement – all the parties – that what we need is more cooperation, more continuity, more holistic patient pathways where community health services, specialist health services and rehabilitation are linked. This reform is rigged in such a way that it counters such practices. The second is that the principle is that private operators operate without roof and without volume restrictions. It becomes strange that public hospitals, which we have across the country and which have a social mission, should have a framework and clear leadership for their activities, while private commercial actors – often the large health group with a tax haven address, which brings out huge dividends – should have free arms. Why in the world will the government of the Norwegian health sector and Norwegian patients suffer so badly? And then the government parties have to listen once more: we need to strengthen the public health system, in the municipalities and in the hospitals, and we want the public health system to cooperate with the best private – and especially non-profit – actors. I repeat: working with the best private – and especially ideal – actors. So it's the story of the waiting times, and it's kind of strange: there's too many waiting too long, and it's a big problem for everyone how to get around it, but it's actually wrong to say that all the waiting times have increased under the red-green government. On pages 14 and 15 of the Proposition from the Ministry, it is shown that, in particular for mental health protection for children and young people and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, waiting times have decreased significantly. The same applies to time-limits for all types of treatment. That's good, but that's not enough. That's why we have to look at what has made the waiting times go down, and then we have to do something about it. So I want to say that I think it's kind of creepy that in this room we don't take the overall perspective and talk about which drivers and drivers are going to make the health sector grow, to be good, to become competent, and what we're going to do to have equivalent services across the country. That is missing from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2487	Norwegian public hospitals do a good job treating people. Still more suffering is being treated, and treated with better results, and we have a lot of good stories. At the same time, however, centralisation of food and emergency services is a creeping insecurity, and there are too long queues for planned interventions. The topic now is not emergency. The theme now is to put the patient in the centre, reduce waiting times, queues and improve quality, and there are great opportunities for improvement in public-owned hospitals. The organisation and management of state hospitals is far from good enough. There is a need to create an effective meeting between the patient and the doctor. It is done by trusting people who stand in the first line that you have a local management, that you have a elected government. Unfortunately, as a member of the Control Committee, I have far too many experiences there with how public owned hospitals do not function well enough. A new organisation and management are needed, and there are real opportunities for improvement here. Today, the division of labour between public-owned, non-profit-owned and private-owned hospitals, and we have it in both somatic and psychiatry. The centre party is too strong a public owned hospital, with good ideal ownership and share companyside hospitals as a supplement, but for ideal ownership and share companyside hospitals, the centre party is entitled to an agreement with the payer – the state. And it should also be natural for the Right Party and the Advance Party that the person who pays has a certain control over what a person pays for. It is a central part of the necessary control-command. The person who pays the bill must have influence. Free treatment choice – what is it? Companies with the purpose of making money, making the diagnosis and performing the treatment, and the state pays. Where does a corresponding system exist? Where does a similar system exist – that it is private who diagnoses and executes the treatment, and then it is the public who pays? It is strong to experience the debate here today. Such a system is impossible for the public to control the cost of the job that has been done. And as my associate Kjersti Toppe said, it's also impossible to check if it's done more than what's necessary, that is, over-treatment, to earn more. This is a system that has a huge system error. The right hand side and the propulsion part go into the open-eye system error. Christian People's Party and Left join the system error after they have gone to the elections on the contrary – so they're turning around! They have been mandated to another system and are turning to the Chamber to give the government a majority. It's something people want to notice -- such a lack of a lot of people elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2502	The working party is now trying to waive the responsibility for taking away patients' rights if this reform is reversed. What happens when the patient sits in a doctor’s office and has to be treated and you know that there is a queue in public – it can also be a queue in private – is that there will be a dialogue between the patient and the doctor to find out where it is best for you, where it is most right that you go. The patient will then be able to choose. That's the right that's going to go away, and it doesn't make sense to talk out of it. I also think it will be very special to talk about tax havens and large groups to enter Norway and treat patients with drug problems. It won't happen. To the representative of the Tokerud in the case of the Medical Association: if you read on in the proposition and comments there, you can see that the Medical Association believes that today the public actually has too much of a monopoly role, and that you want more private input to be more effective. With regard to the system, as the representative of Lundteg addressed: Yes, there is today a system in which assessment skills are actually available. Today, it is assessed at Modum Bad whether a patient needs special care or not. That competence has been in this system for eight years. That's what we're now putting into this law, so that it becomes legitimate and we have that competence. I would like to say that one of the first things that met me when I arrived at Stortinget was a letter from a father in my home country who was incredibly tired because his daughter had been offered several times in the care of a drug dealer in Oslo. He knew that went wrong, because she would then come out into the environment of which she did not have the best of. He wanted her to come to a private place. It cost almost NOK 200,000, and he could not afford it. He knew there was room there. It's this arrangement that we're now going to straighten out, so that his daughter will actually have an opportunity to get treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2515	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2518	To the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen and the Centerpartiet: it was not the case that the Left was running an active election campaign against free treatment elections. There was an idea from the Right about which there was little knowledge. We also did not have an active election campaign for it, but we stated that we were critical. Then we haven't turned around in the hall today. This is a cooperation agreement that was concluded in Nydalen right after the election of which the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party agreed, and one agreed that one would start by trying this out within the russies and psychiatry, and phase it gradually into the somatic. We've been working together for almost a year and a half to make this reform as good as possible, and we're confident that this will benefit patients. We start with a careful phase-in, I would say, with the patients that are the fewest, a little in contrast to the Cooperation Reform, which was introduced in far too small municipalities, and which the Centre Party has now reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2525	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2528	Patient rights are not linked to how to organise the offer. Now, if we strengthen the link between private and public health care, which we want to do, patients retain exactly the same rights. It's covered in free hospital selection – it's what they keep. So this is with a large group -- no, maybe not on drugs and psychiatry, but the government has promised to roll this out in general, this is also going to happen for other types of treatments, and then you get a completely different situation. Then there are the large international groups that come in and offer what they think is the most profitable of treatments for Norwegian patients. It will, as someone has said here, also do something about the possibility of priorities. Then we give ourselves the priority tool to those who get the sea to decide which treatments they want to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2540	To the representative of Ørmen Johnsen, who referred to Modum Bad and their competence: I just want to stress that Modum Bad has done a very good job over a long time, yes, an outstanding job. There's a local management there, it's said that the food is made there, and there's an atmosphere that's exemplary. It is an organisation that has an agreement with the public, and where the public has a strict follow-up. So you know what you're paying for. The point of this free treatment choice now is not Modum Bad. The point of the free choice of treatment is to make it easier for us to get more companies-owned institutions. That's what's the whole point from the right-hand side. It's okay that that's what the Right ideological stands for, there's nothing new about it. To the representative, Kjeseth, who says that the Left has not actively campaigned for free treatment choices: No, they don't. They have had a major choice programme for the opposite, and there is a part that reads the programme and is essentially concerned about what the parties represent in health policy. This has not been an idea from the Right, it has been an important programme entry from the Right, and it is the Left and Christian People's Party that today gives majority. If the two parties had not given the Right and the Advance Party majority, there had not been any of this ideological experiment with this significant system error that I have described. The centre party does not go in to scrape the cooperation reform. We are the warm supporters of the Cooperation Reform, but we want to change the payment arrangements of the Cooperation Reform. Some of our struggle to secure local hospitals is just that the usual thing, and local hospitals live in a very close symbiosis with primary health services, and there are some of the most important interaction areas we have. With Ringerijke Hospital, Västre Viken has a exemplary operated hospital in relation to the Interaction Reform. So finally, Councillor Höie is proud of his ideological reform, free treatment choice. At the same time, the Council of State is almost surprised and is not able to respond to my reply about the specialist treatment from public hospitals, which will go down relatively relative to private hospitals, and on what consequences it has for investment in public hospital capacity. It is very surprising that the Council of State does not have a clear view of this. If there is such a fantastic reform to reduce cows, it must mean doing more there, and it will have an impact on capacity development, and it will have to have an impact on the future dimensions of public government investment projects in this area. I'm asking for an explanation from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2554	First, until the repeated claims made by the representative Toppe that this means that there is no possibility of continuity of treatment. That's not right. It will be the same patient rights and opportunities that lie within this scheme as where the public today buys private contracts. The representative has been up on the pulpit several times and stressed that the centre party is very much to use private ideas through tenders, and it will be exactly the same conditions that apply to the patient here, as when it is purchased through tenders. There is only a significant difference, and that is that this allows capacity to be used in addition to the framework laid down in the contracts. Here, too, lies at the heart of what the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will not admit: if they reverse this reform, they will deprive the patient of a real right. I would like to remind you that it is the Patient and User Rights Act that Stortinget has for treatment today. It is the Workers' Party that has to change, and the consequence of the change is that the patient is not given the opportunity to choose to receive treatment from individuals who are authorised and have free capacity, but the right of the Workers' Party will be a right to stand in a public queue. For the patient, the content of the right is relevant. Reversing the change in law that Stortinget is making today will deprive the patient of a real content of patient rights. It is absolutely right that this was an important matter in the discussions between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. And what was important for the Christian People's Party and the Left was the first thing that we fully agree on, that we should start with a new right for those patients who have the greatest needs, people who are addicted and who have mental disorders, and that this reform should be introduced gradually, where experiences were to be gained along the way and could correct us along the way. That's also why the law is set up as it has been done, precisely so that we can do this gradually and reap experience. We feel that there are negative consequences or things we have not foreseen, we have good opportunities to adjust. It's an ideological reform in the sense that it's putting the patient in the center, but it's a pragmatic reform in the sense that one can make good adjustments along the way if there's things that a person's experience doesn't work well, as long as we have the main intention, to strengthen the patient's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2563	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2566	To the debt from the Council of State that it is not correct, what I have said from the Chair that patients are not closely related, I will briefly refer to what healthcare professionals have said in the hearing about ICT – that a non-conforming system in the ICT field is not guaranteed before a private patient treatment is paid, without any contractual requirement. Companies themselves say that they cannot then see whether a private supplier accepts a patient, whether a time limit from the state and health care is respected, or whether, in the further course of time, there is evidence that the patient needs something that goes beyond what the private supplier is competent to provide. They say there's a patient safety problem. This is one thing that shows that there is a lot of unsolved reform that doesn't guarantee holistic services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2571	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2574	I'm going to admit that under the previous government there were also examples that state councils didn't answer questions, but it hasn't improved in this big period. Once again, I now experience that after I have asked the same question twice, the Council of State does not answer the questions. There will be no real debate when government councils can't answer the questions. It is said here that this is a major reform that has major positive consequences from the fact that private treatment provision will do more. My question was then whether this would not affect the planning of the dimensioning of public hospitals, and must be included in those plans, and the Council of State is completely silent. This suggests that the reform is a little thoughtful – one who dares not take the consequences of his own words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2581	The representative, Lundtegen, said it wasn't about Modum Bad. Well, it's about Modum Bad, it's about Lovisenberg, it's about the Diakon home, it's about Haraldsplatz, it's about the Blue Cross, it's about the Salvation Army – which has said they actually have more capacity than they've agreed on. That's the problem: that we have free capacity that the Christian People's Party wants to use. ICT was also presented as a problem issue. I fully agree with Mr Toppe, but we have that issue today. So there's a common lift in this house to actually get it to. If reference is made to medical treatment in the West, and they are to buy it from a private actor, you have to call the patient and ask for the journal to be sent there, because the ICT system is not working. So there's nothing new under the sun. That's why I think there's a common promise in this room to get to the ICT systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2588	The representative, Bollestad, actually replied to the issue of ICT, because we should have waited to introduce the possibility for the patient to choose between hospitals until we had an ICT system that allowed the information to accompany the patient, we also had to have stopped free hospital choice between the public hospitals in Norway today. Of course, we can't wait to give the patient the opportunity to choose. There must be an ICT system in place in that area, but we are now working very hard to improve the ICT system, and so will be done. So to the question from Lundtegen: there will be a need for growth both places, because even today we see that there are many patients who have the right to necessary health care, who are waiting, and we look into the glass ball, we see that there will be a need for growth in the treatment of patients in Norway. So there'll be a need for growth both places. What's important is that you plan for it in a better way than what you've done in the past. That's why this government is doing what the previous government didn't do. We are working on a national health and hospital plan to be democratically anchored here in Stortingen, where we are just raising the trends that will affect the development of specialist health services in Norway. We involve the Storting in these important decisions in a completely different way from what has been done before, and the National Health and Hospital Plan will be presented until the autumn – a significantly better analytical tool for planning and developing the specialist health service than has been the responsibility of the country for those services over the ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2597	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2613	In 2009 the National Centre for Medical Medicine described Norwegian medical officers as a ‘need in the pastry’. In 2014, they believe that this conclusion is still standing. The medical officer is a basic emergency medical emergency service which should be easy to contact if one is anxious for his or her own health or that of others. Doctors are in a special position among the population, both in function and as a security-creating institution. A lot of good medical work is done around the country, but there is too much going on. Many places are characterized by weak organisation, failing recruitment and the absence of systematic quality work. According to the Medical Association's Recording Report "A Medical Watch for All, But Not for All", extensive changes are needed to create good and safe medical guards as part of a holistic service that meets local needs. The primary task of the medical officer should be what is really urgent. Legal acts must be organised in such a way that different needs are met with proper action. Legislators must also be dimensioned so that they can always be prepared, while at the same time managing patients in need of simple health care. For a long time it has been focused on larger medical care districts, but it is a fact that size and organisation have to adapt to local conditions, because geography, construction patterns and patient base vary. Of the 191 bodyguards in Norway, 111, i.e. 58 pst., intercommunal and 80, i.e. 42 pst., are municipal. The number of medical guards covering only one municipality has been reduced from 102 medical guards in 2009 to 80 medical guards in 2014. If we ignore the largest cities, most doctors in Norway are very small organizations that are run by simple means from a local medical clinic. Studies that have looked at travel distances and medical care have shown that distance from a doctor’s watch affects the pattern of use. It has been shown that the consultation rate of the medical guards falls below half at a travel distance of 43 km or more. Increasing distance is associated with a reduction in the number of consultations at all speeds, including the most acute. In some areas, centralisation will be necessary to ensure stable watch regimes and to ensure preparedness. In some small municipalities, it would be appropriate for one to cooperate, but it is also not such that centralisation means the same as better medical care services. According to the Medical Association, there are several examples of small bodyguards who have created good systems that last for competence, despite being small. On the other hand, there are examples of medical guards in central lines with access to good medical coverage and qualified personnel, but with major deficiencies detected by medical officers, and where the dissatisfaction among those added is great. The majority of those who contact the medical department do so because of simple medical issues that are not urgent. Many patients can easily get advice and help over the phone. A national medical watch number, which is now being introduced, is therefore a very important and loving measure. In order to be able to perform the emergency function of a medical officer, it is also entirely decisive with good capacity of the permanent staff. For many patients, a scheduled day’s consultation will provide a better opportunity for follow-up and treatment than on a medical watch. There is a need for more firmness and good cooperation between the medical profession/communities and the permanent staff. The quality of a medical watch is not alone a question of their competence. There is a strong need for a strong organisational and administrative upgrading of medical guards. Revised local regulations, and resources for municipalities, are good, but not sufficient to raise medical care as a service area. The Medical Association is one of those who call for concrete changes in the organisation of the medical services to ensure that the patient is as equal and well-provided as possible, while at the same time creating care and security for them. There is a great need to improve the equipment of the medical guards. It is also important to look at how medical care is to be paid. For most medical shifts, the salary of the legate is based on activity. Multiple patients mean more income. Many people now think that there is a need for more knowledge of the effect of fixed pay and price financing on the care of the medical staff. The main challenge today is that preparedness is not profitable enough, which weakens recruitment and creates manning challenges. The introduction of fixed pay may be a way of ensuring good and stable recruitment. The increased competence of medical officers must be ensured. Today, eight out of ten medical officers have only one doctor on guard, and only one out of five medical guards have organized the rearguard for a doctor on guard. Calling for urgent medical attention means that the doctor does not have a doctor to evaluate and treat other patients who may be critically injured or ill. The revised emergency medicine regulation now sets out requirements for qualified rear guard if the medical practitioner is not a specialist in general medicine and has completed courses in violence and assault management. Requirements for the competence of medical officers think I'm very positive changes in regulations. General constitutes the foundation of the medical watch service. Today, it is a major problem that many individuals do not participate in the medical care system, or have fewer guards than the scheme imposes, in spite of compulsory obligations. There is a clear tendency for quail participation to be lower in large and central municipalities than in small outlying municipalities. There's a five-fold chance that a permanent resident in a county council has a doctor's watch, compared to a permanent resident in a central municipality. This shows that the guards in the districts are vulnerable and that there is a great deal of responsibility on the staff of small municipalities. For the largest daily bodyguards in the cities, it is natural that the medical guards can be staffed with permanent medical care to ensure quality. For health care providers, good preparedness is also very crucial. Today, many medical professionals have to make difficult decisions for unknown and poor health care providers by phone. A health care professional may be a good measure and should be able to be admitted to the medical care unit where appropriate. With better day-care coverage at the hospital, you will also be able to clear up a lot during the day, so that you can avert the use of medical care. Difor is also medical treatment in hospitals important in this matter. It has traditionally been a thought about the responsibility of the doctor, while the municipality has the role of administrator of the scheme. It's not like that, and it shouldn't be. Local authorities must be the medical officer, and resources must be allocated to both the administration and medical care services so that competence, training, training and improvement requirements are put in place. Local authorities must be required to have a good plan based on ROS analyses, and local authorities and local cooperation committees must have a central role in their work. The Medical Association suggests in its report that all medical wards should appoint their own medical supervisors. Thus, access to a medical watch is a basic service and has a gateway function towards the specialist services. The size has been occupied by the bodyguard – both this and the previous staging. In the previous big bang, in the 2012–2013 session, Stortinget will deal with Document 8:76 S, and in the spring of 2013 the Stortinget will deal with a proposal from the Progress Party to which the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left joined, on a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and accessibility of users. In this setting, there was a comment from today's cooperation party that "prescription will not be sufficient" but that there had to be a separate plan. So my question to the Council of State is what is the government's plan to ensure quality, competence and availability in the medical services, and whether there will be a national action plan, as suggested in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2647	I would like to thank the representative Toppe for putting the medical service on the agenda. This is the service that many people come into contact with first in an emergency, and it is important that the population is confident that they will receive good help. Medical care is part of the emergency medical chain outside the hospital. There has long been a prevailing perception that the medical officer is a weak part of this chain, and I am well aware of the issues outlined in the medical report. As soon as I became a health minister, I therefore gave an additional task to the expert committee to review emergency medical services outside the hospital, to work on specific quality requirements for the municipal medical care department, the so-called Emergency Committee. I have been hearing an interim report from the Committee on Emergency Affairs, which provides a background for the new emergency medical regulation. As the interpellant is aware, on 20 March of this year, the King of the Council of State laid down a new emergency medical regulation – a regulation on requirements for and organisation of municipal medical care, ambulance services, emergency medical services, etc., the emergency medical code. This regulation has been very much anticipated in the professional community, especially after the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine presented a draft action plan for the service in 2009, with a cost framework of around 1 billion. kr. The regulation imposes some new requirements on the emergency medical services outside the hospital, while many of the changes are a clarification of the minimum requirements resulting from the applicable safety requirement. Amendments to the Regulation include, inter alia: related to competence and response times. It also facilitates a national medical watch number and clarifies the requirement for interaction and cooperation between establishments providing emergency medical services. Medical care is an emergency service that is sometimes characterised by acute issues that require rapid decision-making, and in which the doctor often has to make decisions alone. It is therefore important to ensure adequate competence in the service. At the same time, there are just assessments of medical competence requirements for watchkeeping, etc. which has been most demanding to deal with since the end of the hearing. The hearing opinions were very disconcerting: in some areas, the trade unions wanted stronger demands, while in others. CS and many individual municipalities expressed concerns about the costs, feasibility and sustainability of the scheme, if the requirements of the consultation draft were maintained. With the regulation that has now been adopted, I hope that we have managed to navigate in this waters in a good way. I believe that the required minimum requirements are necessary to meet the requirement for a proper medical care service. In the field of medical watch, the regulation lays down competence requirements for doctors who are required to have a medical watch on their own, without any rear guard. The doctor must then either be a specialist in general medical practice or be approved by a general practitioner with three years of guided service under EEA legislation. In addition, a doctor with an approved guided service must have carried out 40 medical guards or worked one year as a general practitioner or a permanent medical practitioner in the municipal health and care service. If a watch doctor does not comply with these requirements, the municipality must provide an obstetrician who complies with the requirements. The rear guard must be able to move out whenever necessary. The requirements have been moderated somewhat in relation to the text of the consultation proposal. There were originally proposed five types of medical specialities in addition to general medicine, which may have independent guards and backguards. Several hearing bodies considered real competence, interest and co-ordination to be as important as specific requirements for formal competence and that other specialities could be equally relevant. The new regulation opens up the possibility that all types of specialities may initially be relevant, as long as the doctor meets the necessary experience requirements. This I believe will ensure the quality of service in a better way, while at the same time the municipality will be able to maintain experienced doctors with specialities other than general medicine in medical care. In the case of the number of medical guards, it is considered that a doctor who regularly participates in the watch and has the necessary experience, who will most often have far more than 40 guards behind him. In any case, the recruitment of doctors will have to be based on an overall assessment of the municipality. At the back of the concerns of the KS and many municipalities, I have found it necessary to propose a three-year transitional arrangement for the requirement of basic medical competence. It will be important to follow developments in the future, and I will do this in close cooperation with, among other things. KS. The new regulation also requires medical doctors and medical professionals to conduct training in emergency medicine and violence and assault management. This will be a significant leverage for medical care, both in general and in the important work of victims of violence and abuse. In view of the capacity of implementation, there will be a transitional period of five years for the cure requirements. Several of the provisions of the Regulation are clarifications of the applicable law. Among other things, we have found it necessary to clarify that the municipality's day-to-day responsibilities for immediate help mean that at least one doctor should be available for medical care all day. There is often a lack of clarity about day-to-day responsibilities, because they are responsible for the immediate-help-offer to their own list-holders during office hours. New in the regulation is the requirement for a response time on the phone in the medical wards. The requirement is the same as for the permanent medical services, which is supposed to be met by the centres today. The requirements for staffing in the medical guard centres have been strengthened. Appropriate health education and training at the bachelor level and necessary experience and training are required. That is, in practice, nursing skills, which were strongly sought by the hearing bodies. Good competence of front personnel is very important. In order to make the service more accessible to users and to facilitate cooperation between the actors in the emergency services, a national telephone number – 116 and 117 – shall be introduced to the local medical clinics from 1 September this year. The regulation facilitates this. Both the Medical Association and others have requested specific requirements for the content, manning and equipment in the service. This can be difficult when the municipalities are so different and the service is changing. Studies show that around 80 pst. by the medical guard stations are staffed by one doctor and some hearing bodies, inter alia. The play club, thought it should require a minimum of two doctors on duty. There is not necessarily a patient basis for more than one watch doctor, and it is not certain that the same means are good for achieving the same objectives in all municipalities. As part of the requirements of soundness and internal control, the municipalities are already obliged to ensure that the medical officer has sufficient staff, necessary competence and equipment. Prior to the chosen watch regime, the municipality must have carried out a risk and vulnerability analysis, including: travel distances to medical care and the need for rear guard arrangements. Good management and follow-up by the municipality is part of the legislation today. It will be relevant that this and more are described in a service supervisor. Good local systems are essential to ensure quality and soundness. I am pleased that the new emergency medicine regulation has now been adopted. The regulation clarifies the responsibilities of the municipality and the role of the medical officer in the emergency medical chain. At the same time, I would like to stress that the regulation is just a first step on the way to lifting medical care. As already mentioned, we intend to continue working on this development in the years to come. Other processes relevant to the municipal medical services are also in progress. A notice to the Stortinget on the primary health service of the future shall be provided during the spring. There's a medic theme. We are also working on a national health and hospital plan that comes to the autumn. It shall concern, inter alia: emergency medical services and can therefore also have an impact on the local medical service. Last but not least, I am now waiting for the final report from the Committee on Emergency Affairs, which is due to be submitted in December. In the light of the processes I have mentioned, I will not rule out the need to revise new emergency medical regulations in some areas in the near future. But anyway, I think it has been important to put in place the emergency medical regulations that the professional community and many others have been waiting for. So we are now waiting for the report from the sample, which will come in December, and we will then decide on how this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2700	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It's a bit of a special situation, because it has come up with an emergency medical code that also deals with medical care, for which we were criticized – when we were in government – was not sufficient, but that one also needed a further plan for it. I asked the question back. When it comes to emergency medicine, I see that someone has done a job. The question of setting standards of competence was something that we also raised, and that this is an assessment of what is possible and not possible. But I also see in the regulation that there may be exceptions if it is difficult, and that one can find other ways to maintain the quality. The point is, I also believe that this regulation will strengthen the quality of medical care. It's very positive. There are a couple of aspects not covered by this regulation. One is a requirement for office premises and a requirement for the crew otherwise. I see that the acute selection suggests that at a medical clinic the doctor should not be on their own – that is, not two bodies, but that there should be a nurse or another health professional. The same should apply to expressions. The acute selection also suggests that there should be access to a uniformed driving licence. It is in a way a paradox that the medical watch is the only prehospital emergency medical supply that a person runs around in his own cars without a colleague. Many also report that one is insecure in these situations. When it comes to fixed pay, I could ask for a comment on it. There is something that cannot be regulated in a regulation, but it is pointed out by several – both by the competence centre and by the Acute Selection – that increasing the use of fixed pay and increasing the use of fixed pay could be a way of recruiting better than the current system. I thought I could get a review of that. The emergency selection also suggests that the medical watch should be included in the regulated working time, so that the scope of the watch load is more carefully considered. I would like to receive a comment from the Council of State on these issues, which is not mentioned in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2717	Firstly, I would like to say once again that I am very pleased that the representative Toppe is continuing an engagement with the medical care system. It is important that we do not forget the central part of healthcare, which may have been the case for a longer period of time, but where we had a major debate on this part of health care in the past. I am also pleased that the representative expresses the feeling that the regulation that has now been adopted implies a demand for better quality, which hopefully will also improve the situation of Norwegian medical practitioners. It is also correct – as the representative mentions – that not all of the matters recommended by the Committee of the Regions have been included in this regulation. It is not all that is mentioned, which belongs in a regulation. This is the relationship that we have to come back to. We will continue to work on some of this in connection with the primary health service notification. Something we will discuss as a follow-up to the final work, which will come in December. Then we have to decide how this is to be followed up. Other areas are also available as recommendations. It is the municipalities that are responsible for this service. A person has the full ability to organise this service in addition to that regulated by regulations, such as: with regard to the possibility of a medical car, which is already in the possession of many common municipal medical guards, which is uniform, etc. This is part of a much larger discussion, namely the discussion of the municipal structure. When we now work on a primary health report, we do so on the basis that today’s municipal structure is not designed to provide the healthcare that the population needs today — and even less the healthcare that the population needs in the future. A more competent, advanced medical watch, with greater requirements for competence, equipment, quality and staffing, will also be associated with a question of either larger municipal units or more extensive cooperation between smaller municipalities in order to manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2730	Medical care plays an important role in health care, and in particular in meeting the people’s need for safety and close presence. It must be easy to contact a medical professional when you are ill or concerned about the health of your own or your relatives. Many point out that the medical guards around the country are too randomly organized, and that we have problems recruiting good and experienced doctors. Legislators therefore need better and more predictable manning, good prioritisation tools, good cooperation with decision-makers and access to call-out vehicles. This will strengthen preparedness and provide a better offer to patients. Good daytime availability of caregivers is also important in order to enhance the preparedness of medical officers. The interpellant has raised a very important debate by pointing out the weaknesses and shortcomings we have today in medical care, and by inviting people to change words about how we can improve the system. The Medical Association proposes in its recording report on the medical guards that the medical wards should have a medical supervisor and that expert meetings and operational meetings should be set up for all employees. The association points out that it is important to build skills in the system through good organisation to facilitate good professional practice, so that doctors can attract good professionals. There is a broad consensus that we need to strengthen the competence of the entire emergency chain, not least in the medical care system. It is therefore initially very good that the government has sent out a new regulation for emergency medicine. More stringent requirements are laid down for the professional competence and staffing of medical officers. We fully agree to that. At the same time, I am surprised that the government has at least so far refused to set up several tour sites, which could provide a hard-to-reach recruitment lift. The new regulation requires, as the Council of State also said, that the person on the watch alone must be a specialist in general medicine. Today it's actually just about. 20 pst. by medical practitioners who have such specialisation, and new requirements will mean that the watch load on their prescribers becomes very high. This regulation will, by all likelihood, if it was introduced now mean that many medical guards in rural municipalities will be cut short. Another weakness of the regulation, which in any case has been pointed out by several, is that it says little or nothing about the rest of the crew at the medical guards, such as. the duties of nurses. I realized at the Council of State that he also looked at it, or got a recording about it. In that case, that's good. I have been contacted by the municipalities in Mid-Throms. It's just that in medical cooperation between Bardu, Målselv, Salangen and Lavangen, there are only 3 out of 23 cooperating doctors in the system who will fill the requirement of the new regulation. This means that if this regulation is to be complied with as we have described it now, there will be major problems with staffing both in Troms and certainly in other well-established regions. It will mean a large-scale centralization of the medical guards, with great distances, long travel routes and poor local knowledge. But then I heard again that the Council of State suggested that there were exceptions here, looking at how to get this done in districts or regions where you have those problems. I think we have to have an overall approach to health policy, even if we're going to lift the medical guards. Training of health professionals and adequate tour sites are important keywords, as well as bets on public health services, and then I see it in the context of the matter we had earlier here about free treatment options, which is a centralising system. No matter what the Council of State says, I'm pretty sure the local health service will also feel the pressure if this reform is rolled out in a large way. It is then worrying that we do not have a health policy that sees the different challenges in context, nor does it adequately respond to the health challenges that we know are coming. We need to have an overall perspective, we need to see primary health and specialist health services in the context. I hope that the Minister of Health will take a comprehensive approach and address it when he now submits the primary health message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2747	It is commendable and good that the representative Toppe places the medical service on the agenda. Medical care is an important part of the emergency medical chain outside hospitals. We're all dependent on it and we've all been visiting. There has been a prevailing perception that the medical officer is one too weak in the emergency medical chain. In the Medical Association's report A medical watch for everyone, but not for everything, which is the play of the Medical Association in a report for better medical care, the president said in the foreword: ‘Today, the caretaker is characterised by too much random organisation, failure to recruit and absence of systematic quality work. The Norwegian Medical Medical Competence Centre in 2009 described Norwegian medical officers as ‘necessary in the pastry’.’» The government is now doing something about this. But I would like to point out that the municipalities already have a duty to ensure that the medical officer has sufficient staff, necessary skills and equipment. Prior to the chosen watch regime, municipalities shall have carried out a risk and vulnerability analysis of, inter alia: travel distances to the medical guard and the need for rear guard arrangements. Good management and follow-up by the municipality is part of the legislation today. Many municipalities need to cooperate to ensure a good quality medical care service for the population. At the same time, we know that more centralisation of medical care leads to more people getting a longer journey. Here's a balance line. At least you must not give the impression to the people that closeness creates security when there is not enough competence and staffing on the medical watch. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Health gave an additional task to the expert committee to review emergency medical services outside the hospital, and that the sample was assigned to work on specific quality requirements for municipal medical services. New emergency medical regulations have now been adopted by the Council of State. In the field of medical watch, the regulations now lay down the competence requirements for doctors who are required to have a medical watch on their own, without any rear guard. That's good. The requirement for staffing of medical care centres has also been reinforced and relevant health education at the bachelor level and necessary experience and training is now required. In practice, this is a matter for nurses, which was also requested by the hearing bodies. Good competence of front personnel in the medical guards is important. It is important to be able to prioritise and ensure the proper management of urgent conditions. There have been too many complaints that too many people have been waiting too long, and especially the elderly who have been on medical duty for hours without treatment. That's not good enough. Several municipalities have joined forces on medical care and also on the organisation of emergency places. I would like to refer to the Executive Director of the Inter-Communal Medical Officer in the Dramens region, an inter-communal medical officer. He writes in Drammen's Official Journal on 7 April that the medical officer with his immediate help-daily posts in eight places actually now relieves the hospital and is an alternative to hospitalization, that the patients who come there have clarified health conditions, but there may be patients who need follow-up, whether they have pneumonia, or they need pain relief, and that the feedback from the patients has at least been very positive. The Health and Care Committee has also been and looked at the district medical centre/care centre of the Ferenes in Valdres. In our long-range country, the doctors will be treated differently. There are many processes in progress that will affect the further development of municipal medical services, including: the reform of the local authorities. The communication to the Stortinget on the primary health service of the future will also have the theme of medical care, and not least the national health and hospital plan. I therefore do not agree that there is an overall assessment of the health provision in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2769	The representative Tope asks the following questions in his interpellation: What will the government do about short- and long-term action to ensure quality, competence and availability of medical services? For a number of years, the party of progress has been concerned about the medical profession, and we have also seen a number of issues in recent years that have given rise to concern, precisely because of the wide variation in supply, related to competence, waiting times and not least how patients are met. In this context, the Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a representative for a national medical action plan to ensure the quality, competence and availability, as the interpellant himself mentions, through Document 8:76 S for 2012–2013. One of the last representatives of Toppe himself was in 2013, before the red-green politicians had to leave the government offices, was just to reject that action plan and the changes they wanted to make in the medical service. I think the Council of State has explained in a very straightforward and systematic way what the government is doing, both with the primary health message to come, and with the emergency medicine regulation that the government has already adopted in the Council of State on 20 March, if I don't remember completely wrong. Furthermore, as I said here, it comes up with a national telephone number to make it easy, and there are skills requirements. There are a number of measures and a number of reforms that the government is undertaking, which are essential, precisely to improve. That's the chain of measures we'll be met with, which is the most important thing here. Wherever we live in the country, it must be that we have the security we depend on, that, when we need it, we are met with a quality relative – at least somewhat – equal service across the country, so that we are assured of the help we need. This may apply to families with children who are insecure about the condition of their children who have an acute need, and to other persons who are suffering from acute illness, etc. I'm going to the doctor's office. There are a number of things that have to be done, and that's why this government is working on a community reform. The community reform is essential in this matter, precisely to ensure competence and to have more doctors to play on in the medical watch system, so that the watch load does not become too high, as well as to offer various support functions, in order to have good locations, but not least – as I said – to ensure competence and have more skills to play on. You're also totally dependent on it to be able to sparing each other and get rid of some of the uncertainty. If you have large enough units, there could also be more doctors on duty at the same time, along with other health professionals, so that you can play along and get these things done. I also believe very strongly in this particular national telephone number, because it is important – the more uncertain factors we can remove, the better. We're pretty good at learning phone numbers. We've learned both 110, 112 and 113 and have learned to use them. We'll see how long we get to keep all three, or whether some of them are going to be collected, but having simple tools to deal with is very important. What I think the state council must focus very much on in the future is exactly what we have now discovered in the last few days, namely the use of data tools – we have a certain DIPS system that is in the wind in these days. We need a system that works fast, so we're going to hope that the next generation system does just that. But being able to interact, extract information, have patient mobility, and not least information flows is essential, because very often the doctor will also refer to the system or say that one should come back, and then some of the job must be done in advance to get a flow across the whole system line. I look forward to the primary health message and other things coming, and that we can get an even better bodyguard than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2788	Thank you to Kjersti Toppe for addressing an important theme and to the Council of State for a thorough answer. I share Mr Toppe's wish to have an increased political focus on the organisation of medical services. As both the representative Nesvik was in the past and the Council of State in the past, the emergency regulation is a starting point for increasing political attention and prioritisation. There's a lot going on in terms of structure and organization. I want to start in Australia, as the committee has been there. It was interesting to see that they have their own training in district medicine, with a different type of admission requirements. It wasn't necessarily duty service, but they were recruited because they had the experience that they had grown up and lived in the districts, and had a desire to continue living there even if they had taken a specialised education. In Norway, we can point out that Tromsø has taken a bit of the same responsibility to train doctors with such experience. I think that's part of the political debate we're going to continue. I think we should look at this kind of specialisation and whether we should pay more attention to that type of education — and also look at the recording requirements. I think we also need to discuss this in the light of the fixed medical system and look at the further situation. It's both the plus and the minuses of the fixed medical system. One of the challenges is the supervisory function, which in some cases has too little job breaks and too little continuity. In addition, we have the public health function and the preventive part, which has a varying function for the permanent staff today, and also this with participation in the medical profession. We need to look at new forms of organisation in which the new municipalities are given greater responsibility for the prevention and general medical function, as well as at the municipal medical function, the role that municipal doctors will have in the future, in order to strengthen their capacity overall in the prevention work, but also to provide room for participation in medical services. The Council of State was involved in ROS analyses, which should be based on them. Only here do we face a challenge, because unfortunately many municipalities have not done ROS analyses. So just there we meet a big capacity challenge in getting more municipalities to do it. So to the national medical watch number, coming to the fall. Hopefully, there is a good start to a more coordinated national health information for the primary population. When we were in Scotland, we saw the NHS 24. How can we get citizens to participate more in both organisation, prevention and participation by providing better and more coordinated information? I think that's also an important part of the doctor's care, and not least of the primary care. We already see trends in such large regions that they go beyond what could possibly become new municipalities as well. At its national meeting, the left proposed an inquiry into transferring responsibility for hospitals and specialist health services to new regions. Medical care is an example of one that might in the future fall under what is a major support function in the municipalities. Then we have to discuss this up against the air ambulance and the specialist health service. The Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation today contributes a lot to research and development, and that is what we need to bring into the medical system and emergency medicine and look at how the primary health component will participate in that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2805	Thank you to the people who have spoken. Medical care is very important. I tend to say that we don't get the primary health care service to work if we don't have a functioning medical care service, because it hangs tight together. It's very important as I've said. The representative, Kjeseth, points out that you have to look at it. That's what I agree with. Sickness visits, supervisors – this is in a way that's hand in hand with the challenges of medical care. But my main concern – and I know that very well – is that we have to do something about what is not in the regulation to ensure recruitment to general medicine, including medical care, in the future. I tend to say that the doctor is suffering from the blue light syndrome – that it is an emergency medical service, but because one does not have this blue light, it is not prioritised in the same way. It is now a political responsibility to raise the service. I respect that this comes in the primary health message. I don't want to be rhetorical about anyone who suggested what. There are several people who could have done something. We voted against it, and there is nothing new. But it's okay, now it's in the primary health message. I expect there's a clear plan for a medical officer there. I also expect you to see how this rule works. I agree that when the Acute Selection delivers its second report, we need to look at this again, and I am pleased that there is a plan ahead. When it comes to municipal structure, there are several people who have been involved in it. I'm not going to go into a political debate about municipal structure, but I've been working as a medic in both small and large municipalities. It's very different, and that's the way it must be. But one should not automatically have confidence in the competence and quality of the close supply in the small ones. Similarly, the quality of the services offered should not be trusted. In fact, – it also indicates the Acute Selection – it is by the large medical guards that there is the most widespread use of temporary workers. It's kind of the opposite of what you want. The larger the medical care district, the smaller the guard load, but then it turns out it's easier to give away the guards. So it's a big paradox for me which grip should take to ensure that at least the larger medical wards have quality. So the new knowledge comes that distance actually means something. It's a dilemma, and we can't ignore it, no matter what one thinks about municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2816	We have ambitions – and greater ambitions – on behalf of the medical officer, and on which the representative Nesvik was involved, we are in the process of implementing it. I would like to remind you that when the previous government set up the Emergency Committee, quality requirements for the municipal medical officer were not part of the mandate. It changed after the government change. It is based on this some of the discussions we have today that are taking place. Then there are some of the elements that have emerged in the debate, which I have to comment on. There are now requirements for competence in the new regulation. In addition, both doctors and medical professionals working together in medical care must have completed courses in emergency medicine and in violence and assault management. Competence of doctors is required. There are requirements for relevant health education at the bachelor's level and necessary experience and training for the staff of the medical watch centres. So there are already quality requirements here. Transitional periods have also been correctly introduced. Although I agree with the representative Toppe that one can find quality challenges in both large and small medical care centres, there is no doubt in the consultation round that there is a dilemma between the strict quality requirements we are going to impose, and the level of staffing and equipment requirements we are going to impose, against demands that lead to a greater degree of distance and centralisation, and the smaller municipalities have expressed their concern that they can meet these requirements. That's why we've also moderated this something. So we're going to follow this up in the messages we're working on. I think it's a little humorous when the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen calls for health policy to be seen in a context. I hardly think there is any government that has made it better to see health policy in a context than this government. When we present a public health report, a primary health report and a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinge in the same year, a set of issues ranging from primary health prevention to the highly specialised health service at our regional hospitals in a context over the same year. So everything is in order for us just to do what one here is asking, to look at health policy in a context. On the ICT side, there are also major challenges. Here, the first important step will be the introduction of nuclear records, which are now being extended to major parts of the country, where the emergency medical chain will have access to very relevant information.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2828	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2834	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2980	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e2989	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3012	During the debate, Mr Hansson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to submit a plan for the development of the Svalbard community, focusing on sustainability, environmental research, a renewable energy base and new economic pathways.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3046	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Amendment No. 4, by Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5 and 6 by the Greens. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a list of refused licence applications is published in the context of future large-scale notifications of exports of defence equipment, with specific reference to the criteria used to justify the refusal.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reject applications for export licences for deliveries by the Kongsberg Group to deliver through the contract for the export of the Namsas air protection system to Oman. Furthermore, the Stortinget government is asking the company to exercise its right of governance to ensure that the company withdraws from the contract and to prevent the conclusion of new similar contracts with the corresponding recipients.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3080	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to base its ownership exercise on Norwegian-owned arms-exporting company following Norwegian arms export policy, even when they are located in other countries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3097	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of an Ethics Council for Norwegian arms exports which systematically advises the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which has the mandate to identify and point out any contradictions between exports to specific regimes, in the event of a change in export practices to a recipient country or in the event of a change of political situation in the country of destination.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to tighten up the legislation on exports of defence equipment by not allowing Norway to sell strategic goods to countries where the authorities commit serious violations of human rights.’ [[including A- and B-materials and multi-purpose goods]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a parliamentary export control board for the export of Norwegian defence equipment. In such an investigation, it is natural to look at the experience of Sweden, England, Belgium and other countries with mechanisms for increased parliamentary transparency.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3166	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3174	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 8-11, by Mr Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, 12 and 13, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to postpone the introduction of free treatment until the pension challenges for NPISHs as providers of health and social services have been resolved.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a levy for commercial operators within the system of free choice of treatment, as compensation for the fact that these operators do not have the same obligation to contribute to the training of health professionals as the public health service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3207	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to give regional health companies responsibility for approving and phase-in operators in the system of free choice of treatment, and to ensure that health businesses are also responsible for pricing the services, in the same way as they are responsible for contracts concluded under the tendering procedure with private and non-profit operators.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to take action for the Storting on measures to increase the use of contract specialists.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to focus on health policy considerations in the evaluation of the authorisation of free treatment optors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3234	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to bring its own case before the Storting for the evaluation of the FBV scheme, where the Stortinget may decide on the possible extension or winding-up of the scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3251	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 and proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the approval of operators in the free choice of treatment system to establish communication ICT systems, which ensure good cooperation on patient outcomes with public health services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the impact of the increased ISF share scheme on treatment provision and priorities by 50 per cent.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the approval of private operators for the provision of free treatment options shall be time-limited.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget calls on the government to clarify the economic consequences of the system of free choice of treatment and to move the allocation to free choice of treatment from the internal budgets of the health regions to a separate allocation under the framework of the Ministry of Health and Health.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked, if the bill is adopted in Stortinget, in the notified consultation on regulatory proposals with a detailed assessment of the requirements to be imposed on FBV suppliers, to include details and effects on pricing, the economic impact of different ways of implementing the scheme, the need for increased use of resources in central health management and a full overview of the assessment of the scheme by the Health Directorate.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The ruling requests the government to return to Stortinget with clarifications on outstanding open questions before the entry into force of any regulation on the details of the free choice of treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3294	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that agreements with non-profit actors are reversed from tenders for longer and longer-term contracts in order to ensure predictability and high quality.» The Greens have notified the Greens in support of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3395	It is votered over II §2-1 b new eighth and ninth paragraphs. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3409	A vote shall be taken on the opinion of the Committee for the remainder of II and I and III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3424	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3436	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-14.ana.ud2563e3567	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
