ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e26	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the Presidency has decided to hold a meeting in Stortinget on Monday the next day, 16 November, at 9.30 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e38	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the state councils Thorhild Widvey and Bent Höie will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e45	The civil war in Syria has driven millions of people away. There is nothing that has happened in the harvest – this has been going on over time. From the Workers' Party, we have on a number of occasions called for government involvement to achieve a common European response to the refugee disaster. It is important to protect those people who need it, but it is also important to prevent those who are obviously groundless asylum seekers from staying with us. Now there is a need for joint action. When the Storting in our discussion of the Mediterranean situation, Norway came up with a correct response. There is also a need for that today. Many asylum seekers crossing the Great Forest border have lived in Russia for very many years. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to prevent groundless asylum seekers from crossing Norway's border at Storskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e54	We are facing a situation in Storskog that cannot continue. There is an influx of asylum seekers and migrants, many of whom do not require protection and do not need protection. We have now taken – as the Storting is also familiar with – a number of initiatives. Yesterday, Prime Minister Stortinget asked to deal urgently with a law that allows us to effectively define Russia as a safe first country, i.e. that if one is in Russia and is from Afghanistan or from Iraq and has a valid residence, a few shall remain there. And if one comes to Norway, we can force him or her to return, in line with the agreements we have with Russia. In addition, we now have diplomatic work with Russia, where we are trying to get an understanding that they are just going to send to Norway people who have valid papers, that is. that they have a Schengen visa. If we get to both of these solutions and get it into place, I hope we can bring the situation under control at Storskog. We have discussed this in Stortinget, and I am in favour of the goodwill – which was also shown yesterday – for an expression of this question. But what Huitfeldt's representative also addresses is a much broader question about the migration wave we are now facing, not least from Syria and from neighbouring countries. Here, with the Prime Minister at the head, the government has initiated a major global donor country conference for Syria and neighbouring countries together with Prime Minister Cameron and Chancellor Merkel in February next year, where we must ensure that the neighbouring countries receive the necessary financial support. People will continue to move towards Europe if they do not get help, either inside Syria or in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e65	What this situation calls for is the need for cross-political cooperation in the Grand Duchy, so that we can deal with and get through the policy needed to get a good and fast response. But the government is handling this matter from day to day. The border commissioner informed that only last Saturday information was distributed in Afghan to potential asylum seekers on the Russian side of the border. How can the Foreign Minister explain such inertia when the influx has been increasing over many weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e72	First I have to say that when Huitfeldt calls for a cross-political line here, that we are going to agree to solve one of the greatest challenges facing us as a nation in recent years, I am a little surprised that the question is based on something very detailed, which is also under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but I am going to answer it. I thought we should now stand together and not create any further uncertainty about these procedures. It has been clear from Norway that those coming to Norway should have the papers in order. So it's like many people have applied for asylum, and there we have international obligations, but what the Prime Minister has now initiated is a very special process, which allows us to define Russia as a safe first country. We can return without delaying processes, and we have a diplomatic work, where I am betting that we stand together to try to get Russia to handle it like this on its side of the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e79	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e82	The Labour Party has a constructive approach to these issues and will contribute to finding coherent solutions in the Storting. However, it is also important that the government is both able and willing to answer the critical questions raised, not least from those who are now in the middle of the management of the asylum flow over Storskog. The government has chosen to use the title ‘From dialogue to action’ in its north-eastern policy. The situation in Storskog has shown above all that there is a need for both dialogue and action on the issues that need to be addressed across the borders of the north. In addition, the influx of asylum seekers across Storskog has highlighted the need for a new border station with sufficient capacity. This border station is a very important part of the infrastructure of Norwegian-Russian cooperation and of Northern Region policy, but it is waiting for it. Last week there was a new report that concluded that there was no need for a new border station at Storskog anyway. When can we expect action from the government on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e91	A constructive approach and dialogue is something we absolutely want, but I am surprised that, having implemented what we can to deal with a very delicate both foreign policy issue and refugee and asylum seekers issues, as Storskog knows, we find it critical that we have done too little too late. That, I think, is an unreasonable criticism, and I also think it is an attempt to knock party-political coins on this. I now feel that there is an enormous pressure – including from the representative – to send us out more quickly to Afghanistan. For the past three and a half years, we have spent time defending, not least the Minister of Justice, because he has been criticised for having sent out too quickly to Afghanistan, and suddenly this has turned around in two weeks. I expect that we can have a constructive approach to this now and cooperate on it. What we have the least focus on now is this with appropriations related to new border stations and so on. What we're focusing on is the question of stopping this inflow, and then we'll have to take this with the border station later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e100	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e103	I agree that it is important that we do not make party-political coins on this matter, but then it was interesting to follow the NRK last night, where it was just the Foreign Minister who pointed to domestic policy events in ours, as a basis for the asylum influx we now see. I have to remind you of countries like Germany, Sweden, Greece and Italy. There are many countries that are currently setting up and that have just a large influx. The government itself believed so late as in September that the influx of asylum to Norway would bring about a decline. But it wasn't just what happened at NRK yesterday. There was also a Norwegian border inspector who said that in official meetings Russia pointed out that this situation would occur – it has done so over several years. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: do we now use all channels in meeting with Russia to get this situation under control?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e113	I can assure the representative Hareide that we are working 24 hours a day to bring under control the situation that has arisen at Storskog. We use all the diplomatic channels that we think are right and that serve the cause. I am also pleased that the representative mentioned this debate programme yesterday. I had not intended to deal with the matter to which the representative refers. I was in a debate program, and the government was accused of having done too little in a crisis situation, we're not sending enough back to Afghanistan, and not fast enough. I feel that there is an attempt to knock party-political coins on a handling of a matter that is serious for the country. Then I added that I have, of course, experienced that the signals sent from Norway when we decided that we should receive more refugees are signals like many, for example. in Zaatari, a refugee camp in Jordan and Lebanon, has brought it. All the signals that are sent now, these have come with them, and we have to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e122	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e125	We support an important work, but the government must also bear in mind to get critical questions. The government has repeatedly chosen to refrain from interacting with Russia in recent years, where this could be possible. A denial of the request to help Russia lift the plane outside Berlevåg to bury the war heroes who managed there. No button on the memory marker for the end of another World War I. The Secretary of Defense could say at CNN that our relationship with Russia was never going to be normal again. And according to the NRK, the border inspector at the Border Commission claimed that the number of asylum seekers crossing the border at Storskog would be much lower if the text of a letter was clearer. Then the question is, what is the Foreign Minister's view of this? Could the government, through closer dialogue with Russia, have averted the critical situation in Storskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e130	I am very surprised at the device on this question. We are in a difficult situation with our neighbor in the east – probably the most difficult situation we have had since the cold war. I am now doing everything I can to try to do the right thing, so that you can stop this influx of asylum seekers. In the last two years, I have placed great emphasis on broad consensus in the United Kingdom on the handling of Norway's relations with Russia. For Norway, our first line defence is international law, territorial integrity and borders. In contrast to the rest of Europe, NATO and the United States, Norway cannot be in a situation where we don't also remember this, and they fuck the principles. But in such a situation now to get a discussion, after there has been a broad consensus on this – we should perhaps have been a bit milder to Russia related to these violations of international law – I have to say that this discussion is not taking place in a crisis situation like this. Norway stands up for important values. We do not compromise on them, nor in such a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e135	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e138	We have a great influx of real refugees and migrants into Europe, now also at Storskog. It is absolutely essential that Norway be able to distinguish those who do not have a need for protection as quickly as possible, and the Left supports that intention for the government. It requires a complex policy across all the different parts. Right now, many from Afghanistan have applied for asylum in Norway and come across Storskog. Many are legally resident in Russia, but many will also have to return to Afghanistan. Then my question about the situation in Afghanistan, which has also worsened lately, is that the Taliban has had a march: does Norway, together with our allies, have the necessary and strategic patience to make an effort to contribute to stability in Afghanistan so that they can take care of their own inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e143	The short answer to that is yes. But first two words about the Afghans who are now crossing the border at Storskog. The main weight in the last few days has been persons, many men, who have legally resided in Russia, either visa or temporary visa. There are also people who have been living in Russia for several years. They shouldn't be crossing the border. We are working to ensure that only those who have valid Schengen visas will be able to cross. We send back those who are staying in Russia, and we take the necessary steps now so that the government can also, if necessary, instruct the foreign authorities to define Russia as a safe first country. If we are not to have a full asylum review of these, who do not need protection, because they have a valid residence in Russia, we must take those steps. Then, of course, we are working in parallel with the importance that Afghanistan is now moving in a direction marked by peace and development. But of course we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e148	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e151	I know the Foreign Minister as a wise and nuanced politician, and that's exactly why I was very surprised by what he said at Aktuell last night. I want to quote. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said: ‘The Labour Party has had a campaign in the last year to receive more refugees and asylum seekers in Norway.’ That comment comes in a situation where the Internet thrives on conspiracy theories about just this kind of context. It comes in a situation where we don't need more party political games, but constructive discussions across the dividing lines, and where we don't need simplified explanations and search for scapegoats, but call heads with perspectives in order. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that yesterday's comment was wise in such a perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e160	I answered that question also in a previous round, but I just want to say that that quote must be seen in the context of what was said before this. We are sitting in a discussion about Storskog, and the representative of the Workers' Party, who represents Helga Pedersen, chooses to use it to attack the way the government is now dealing with Storskog and this difficult situation. What I'm pointing out there, in that quote, is that we all have to be conscious of the signals that we are now sending about, for example. more liberal immigration policy, or that we should accept more Afghans, try to convince the Minister of Justice. When the largest opposition party at its national meeting sent a signal that you want to take 10,000 refugees to Norway – I have been to the Zaatari camp in Jordan, I have been to the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon, I have been to Gaziantep in Turkey, and this is what they've got. I'm not saying that I don't think it's right to do that, I'm just saying that it's also that you can't say one thing at a time, that it's going to be more restrictive, and so don't take responsibility for the consequences of that policy in the next.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e167	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e171	We have an ongoing debate on the hospital structure in our country. The Minister of Health and Central Health express the desire to move central emergency services to major hospitals, but at the same time admits that there is no evidence that major hospitals provide better quality. The medical association and the Norwegian surgical association indicate that the quality of emergency surgery in smaller hospitals is good. They fear that the emergency response as a whole will be weakened if local hospitals are deprived of emergency services and responsibility is taken over by already very stressed, large hospitals. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we take care of and develop good health services both in the districts and in the cities. It must be political will to do just that. Some highly specialised healthcare services we know will only be able to perform in a few hospitals, while other services are a prerequisite for maintaining good and sound preparedness throughout the country. It's about the security of the population where the distances are very large. It is about local hospitals with the necessary emergency functions and multidisciplinary competence that ensure local hospitals as attractive and good jobs. My question is: how will the Council of State ensure equivalent and decentralised health services and good preparedness when the Council of State has given signals that there is no basis for small hospitals to maintain emergency surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e180	This is how the government will soon come to Stortinget with a national health and hospital plan, and I understand that the thirst for that plan is only getting bigger and bigger as the longer discussion goes on. But it has been said to Stortinget that it will come in October/November. October is over, and we're in November, and it's coming soon. The background to this discussion is that the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has a strong desire to ensure that we get better planning of the specialist health service, where the Stortinget gets the opportunity to draw up the main direction of how Hospital Norway is going to develop, precisely to ensure that patients receive safe hospital services and good health services, wherever they live. In order to be able to give a good message about this, it is also important to have an open, public discussion in advance, where we also dare to talk about the difficult things. One of the difficult questions is what the representative raises, namely that if we look at, for example. 14 of our smaller hospitals, they have 11 patients hospitalized acutely every day. Only one of the patients is surgically operated during the day. It also presents a challenge in view of the recruitment of the future, because, as the representative is well-known, surgery is developing so that the future surgeons will not be general surgeons, they are going to specialize in some areas. This is something we need to talk about, not because we want to centralize as much as possible of healthcare, but with the opposite starting point, namely how to ensure that the smaller hospitals can also have an emergency offer in the future that gives the emphasis of patients security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e191	The Christian People's Party is ready to talk about everything, including what's difficult. In the October 24 issue of the Day Revy, the leader of the Norwegian surgical association pointed out that most hospitals will be able to maintain emergency surgery if there are quality criteria to be considered. He showed that smaller hospitals have a high quality of the job they are doing today. Does the Council of State consider that there are mainly a number of day-to-day operations that define the quality of the acute surgery in the small hospitals — the number of operations alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e198	What will be crucial to the quality of this offer is that one in the future is able to ensure the staffing of surgeons who have the necessary skills, and that there is an attractive job also for young surgeons who will make a completely different specialization from that of many of the surgeons who work in our hospitals today. National health and hospital plan is not a plan for Hospital Norway for the next year. National health and hospital plan is a plan to help equip our hospitals, both small and large, from a 10- to 20-year perspective, so that we can see what action we need to take today to ensure that our people have safe hospital services and good health services wherever they live, even in the future. Then we have to be able to raise our eyes and look a little ahead. It's about much more than just discussing the quality of the offer here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e205	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e208	Prehospital services such as ambulances, air ambulances, boat ambulances and bodyguards, along with good emergency receptions, are the foundations of the Norwegian health centre. We know that today there are some cracks in this base wall with some holes where there is not enough coverage with air ambulances, elsewhere not enough competence in medical care and ambulances. Will the Council of State ensure that pre-hospital services become a central part of the National Health and Hospital Plan, allowing the Stortinget to give its premises and guidance on how to further develop services?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e213	Yes, prehospital services will be a central part of the national health and hospital plan. In addition, the Olsen Committee will be in its position in December, which also raises important issues related to this issue, which will also be known for the Stortinge while dealing with the national health and hospital plan. In addition, the National Health and Hospital Plan will place great emphasis on ensuring good planning and risk assessment in relation to prehospital services, but also on the services provided by municipalities. Very often when discussing this, one forgets that changes in specialist health services in hospital services can have major consequences for municipalities, medical professionals and other health services, and we need to make more sure that this is seen in a context. So I fully agree with the representative that we need to see this in a much broader perspective than what might have been traditional.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e218	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e221	Governments have given quite a number of drops to the forthcoming National Health and Sickness Plan, and the Workers' Party has formulated some clear expectations and requirements for the nature of such a plan for our hospitals. Among other things, we have the expected concrete measures for the culture and management of hospitals, with emphasis on bystander management, emergency surgery with a broad professional base, evening-open hospital and increased use of health technology. Not least, many people also expect the Minister of Health to deliver on his own hospital promises, including health care. to properly refinance the hospital sector. Can the Minister of Health comment here and now on whether he agrees with the elements formulated by the Workers' Party, which are quite clear requirements for the National Health and Hospital Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e226	Five of the six requirements presented by the Workers' Party in the evening post are areas that will be duly affected in the plan, and in which I also believe that the Workers' Party will find a lot. Then there can probably also be improvements through Stortinget's treatment, and I hope that this plan can get as wide a stir as possible in Stortinget. The sixth requirement, of course, to reverse the free choice of treatment, I'm completely in disagreement, and I think that weakens patients' rights. There is a reform that has just been introduced, from which I think many patients will have great pleasure. On the question of appropriations, there is something that will come into the annual budgets. However, what the National Health and Hospital Plan will contribute to is to make visible to the Storting what challenges and opportunities hospitals face in the future, which, of course, also need to be included in the assessment of the allocation needs of the various government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e235	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e239	I would like to thank the representative of the Christian People's Party for her observation that it is not documented that larger hospitals provide better quality than smaller hospitals, her observation that if local hospitals are deprived of emergency functions and responsibility is taken over by already pressed major hospitals, it becomes even more difficult, and finally that it is a matter of political will. I was in contact with the Right rapporteur in Flekkefjord, Jan Sigbjørnsen, now Monday. Sigbjørnsen asked me to extend a greeting to the management of the Right, namely that the Right in Flekkefjord gives full support to the Central Party's alternative. The model we have presented – the network model – involves quality, economic efficiency and preparedness. My question is, what is the Council of State's assessment of the plan that the Central Party has already presented on this topic, and which is now well known to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e246	I find something wise in the plan, which will also be found in the National Health and Sickness Plan presented. It is not least that in the future hospitals cannot be enough of themselves, neither the big ones nor the small ones. They have to work much more in a network, in cooperation. I'll call it team. And the representative is well-known that when people work together in a team, there is no point in putting together people who have the same background and skills and the same experience. The point of working in teams is that you put people together with different experiences, so that the sum gets better. That's probably what I'm experiencing as a bit of the weakness of the Central Party model, that it's not clear enough that the point of working online is that a person has different roles. There is no point in working online if everyone does the same thing. Otherwise, it is important that the smaller hospitals avoid having to compete for being copies of the large ones, but get to cultivate their role. Then I very much disagree with the proposal of the Center Party to establish a new surgical profession that is just as much under the general surgery. It is a subject that no one is going to want to work in, and that is not going to have a recruitment basis, and then much of the foundation of the Central Party's plan falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e255	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e258	Earlier this year, the Minister of Health suggested that the basis for maintaining emergency surgery should be a patient base of 60,000-80,000 inhabitants. An acute medical task force that has worked on behalf of health businesses has concluded that ‘more people will die if travel time to the nearest emergency surgeon increases’. Their recommendation is that the patient must be transported to the nearest hospital with emergency surgery if it will take more than 45 minutes to transport the patient from the site of the injury to the major hospitals. My question is whether the Minister of Health bases the recommendations of the Emergency Task Force on the work he is now in the final phase or whether he disagrees with the conclusion of the Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e263	There have been different groups who have worked on this issue and made recommendations. The groups that we have had in work have had experience from Hospital-Norway as it looks today. We have also traveled around Norway to gain experience. There is also a background to the recommendation that, in order to maintain a wide range of acute surgical services, a population base is needed to provide a basis for this in the future, not to the next year, but in a longer perspective. That is the background to the recommendation of 60 000 to 80 000. I perceive that there is quite a wide range of professional opening up in different groups. It is such that the seriously injured patients are transported mainly past the smaller hospitals already today. The 14 smaller hospitals I mentioned have one complicated injured patient on average per year. So it's not like the most seriously injured patients come to the nearest hospital, they are very often transported to a larger hospital that is located... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e270	Time's up. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e275	NRK Telemark announced on November 5 that detonated capacity at the Sjukehuset Telemark may have led to patients losing their lives. According to the NRK, the coating was 120 pst. over a longer period of time. The doctors at the hospital asked the Health Inspectorate already in our house to consider whether the offer is justified, and they think that the hospital management doesn't take the situation seriously. The county doctor now examines the Hospital Telemark, and he stated in the media that he is not sure that patients are receiving defensive health care. But it's not just Sjukehuset Telemark who has high patient coverage. In 2013, the Norwegian hospital had an average coverage in the hospital's 93 pst. Five healthcare professionals had a covering of over 100 pst. and the average in OECD countries is for a comparison of 78 pst. Both the Health Directorate and the Norwegian Medical Association believe that Norway has to introduce a defensive limit for patient coatings of 85 pst, as England has introduced. The Minister of Health has so far said no to introduce such a limit, and I think that is serious. High patient coverage is a threat to patient safety. A large German study shows that with a coating of more than 92.5 pst. have a delay in patients, an increase in hospital infections, an increase in disease in patients added and an increase in mortality among patients. The Minister of Health says he is concerned with quality and patient safety. At the same time, he rejects a national defence threshold for patient reports arguing that a patient cannot be denied emergency treatment. But of course this is not about refusing patients help at the door; it is about hospital management and responsible planning of hospital operations and investments, so that bed capacity is sufficient to provide patients with a defensive offer. So my question is about the Minister of Health and Care will propose a threshold of caution for Norwegian hospital averages of 85 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e288	We agree – and there is a great deal of agreement – that having too high a coating, especially in departments that treat critical patients, violates patient safety and quality. Therefore, this is a theme on which hospitals regularly report to the Ministry of Health and Welfare; it is part of the quality indicators included in a quality-based funding. And this is a theme that the hospital management is being measured all the way across, and on which they also get very clear feedback. What I've said no to is having a claim here that will be perceived as a limit to how many patients a hospital will accept. Such a requirement could also prevent what is absolutely necessary in hospital change processes where one sees its capacity in the context and the way in which one accepts patients. I'm e.g. to ensure that raising the level of competence in the front, in hospital receptions, will mean that many of the patients who today end up, for example: on the corridor in crowded sections because one does not meet a specialist early enough, can get faster help, and many of them will also be able to return home. There we see that action is taken. E.g. Both Health Stavanger and Health Bergen establish new reception structures that will provide a rapid, multidisciplinary, specialised clarification, which will help to overcome the overcoat as an example. have attended Stavanger University Hospital, which is one of the hospitals that have had most Corridor Asians. Similar measures have also been implemented at the Hospital Telemark. The Hospital Telemark is aware of the situation and has launched a number of actions, while the county is now carrying out its studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e297	I want to move on to what the Council of State concluded with, simply the Sjukehuset Telemark. The decision on the closure of emergency and day care services at Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital in June 2014 was precisely justified by the Minister of Health and Health with patient safety and quality, so one and a half years after the closure, the health centre is under scrutiny with questions of irresponsible services. According to the development plan, the closure of the two local hospitals would lead to the strengthening of hospital provision at Notodden and at Skien, among others. in the case of new beds in the Ski and several beds in the Notodden, but this has not happened, and the promises contained in the underlying development plan have not been followed up. The Council of State took political responsibility for the closure of local hospitals in 2014, and my question is whether he will also take political responsibility for the failure to follow up the development plan and that full hospitals in Telemark no threaten patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e304	The Hospital Telemark is in the process of following the development plan, and I believe that the representative understands that one cannot build new buildings in one year. One of the reasons for the change in the structure of the Hospital Telemark was that the hospital could make the necessary improvements and upgrades to the hospitals both in Notodden and Skien. But it's not true that no changes have occurred. A number of in-house medical beds are now being established in both Skien and Notodden. A new cancer ward is established at the hospital, and in October the gastro-surgical bed post was reinforced with four additional beds. So there is an expansion and development of hospital services, both in the Ski and Notodden, and there are also changes to help improve patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e311	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e315	It's not just the usual hospital units that have high coatings. In the evening post of 16 July 2015, midwives warned about blasted capacity at all the food departments in Stor-Oslo. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 September this year the midwives at the Women’s Clinic at Haukeland University Hospital warned pregnant against giving birth on weekends. They thought that a tight budget and shutting down the maternity wards on weekends makes it more risky for women to be born. Nevertheless, Health Bergen is planning to cut 17 midwife positions to next year. According to the quality requirements of maternity care, all give birth to a midwife at the active stage of birth. Can the Council guarantee that the quality requirements for maternity care are met, and does it believe that the food supply at the large women’s clinics is currently sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e322	Let me start by saying that assessing whether the offer is sound, is and must always be the responsibility of the local management. By creating the impression that there is a responsibility that can be moved up or down, it could have quite a big impact on patient safety and quality. With regard to the situation in which the midwife's union went out in the media, we thought there were so serious claims that we got the Health Directorate to invite the midwife's union to a meeting where one has gone through this, and it's recently been, because these are concerns that have to be taken very seriously. Then it is that the quality requirements of maternity care, which are well anchored in the child care notification, which has been treated in Stortinget, are still firm and are a guiding principle for the management of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e331	Audun Lighthouse - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e334	Another important aspect of patient safety is to ensure that the right competences are at work. In view of that, I think what happened in the NRK last night is worrying, namely that health companies have spent 2.7 billion. kr on temporary workers for three and a half years. We know that stable manning, experience and firmness are important for quality. I see that the Minister of Health also responds to these figures, but I also see that he points out that this is a local management responsibility. A company that has taken responsibility is Health Bergen, who has arranged this in a new way in a so-called temporary pool. My question to the Minister of Health is: Shouldn't the Minister of Health do anything more now than point out the local leaders? Is it not possible to oblige enterprises to organise temporary employment in a different way from today, as Health Bergen has done, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e341	I don't think it's necessary to do that because the hospitals first learn from each other. More hospitals than Health Bergen have done that measure. It is a wise measure, but it must be followed up locally. One of the things we're working with very systematic management in hospitals right now is that something that works in one place should be copied by others. It is on the agenda of all the meetings I have with the management and administration of the hospitals. I fully agree with the representative that having a high, unnecessary use of temporary workers is a risk to patient safety and quality – both on the basis of competence and on the basis of continuity. It is important that one in the crew has continuity, so that people know each other and know each other's experience and competence. I hope that the representative will also take this recognition into account in the big discussion we are going to have on national health and hospital plan, because that is one of the challenges, among other things. in the case of emergency services in part of the smaller hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e350	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e353	Migration is a global challenge that in these days goes into even the smallest Norwegian municipalities, even up to the mountains and into our national parks. Great nature can be good for body and soul, but for many of the newcomers, who have been on the run and have suppressed both disease and assault, are waiting for different health challenges. For the Norwegian health sector, capacity challenges are expected. A recently published comment in The New England Journal of Medicine describes the reception at the railway station in Munich with up to 20,000 arrivals during a weekend, i.e. a little less than the number we received in Norway in ten months. There were some cases of tortured refugees, single diseases such as diabetes, asthma and untreated injuries, many traumatized children and many who were dehydrated. One must assume that the same disease picture is reflected in the population coming to Norway — a relatively healthy population that does not present a particular risk of infection, which is tired, dehydrated and with widespread somatic diseases, but which is traumatised to varying degrees by experiences of violence or of fear and uncertainty after a long flight. The Health Directorate has advised on the examination of intestinal parasites, syphilis, hepatitis C upon arrival in addition to tuberculosis and MRSA virus. The new reception centre of the Council has significant capacity for somatic studies. Similarly, it is hopefully planned at Storskog and it will relieve already under pressure in hospitals and in some municipalities. How will the Council of State monitor the mental health situation and follow up on the somatic health of newly arrived refugees and migrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e364	Firstly, it is important to stress, as the representative also points out, that the increased presence of asylum seekers and refugees in Norway has given increased tasks at all levels of our society, including in healthcare. It is also the case that anyone coming to Norway as an asylum seeker is being screened for tuberculosis upon arrival at the destination of transit. Where one also establishes reception, the municipalities have mobilised increased resources at short notice. It is also important to find that those who have arrived now are usually the freshest and most resource-intensive people who have gone on the run, and we also see from experience that those who have come to the country in the last two months, seen as a group, have had moderate health problems. Very few have needed specialist health care. 10-20 pst. have contacted the nurse at the time of reception of transit, and these are conditions that have been simple, which do not require a doctor or any other type of treatment. The experience from both Refstad and Våler is that 1-3 pst. of all are in contact with doctors every day, and in fact the figure is lower at Storskog than in Østfold. This may indicate that the health situation is better for those over the Great Forest than for those over the Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e369	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not to stab under the chair that part of those coming is traumatized. In particular, there may be children. The first thing they need is rest, food and care. I'm sure they'll get it in Norwegian reception. In the next few months, however, we need to pay particular attention to both the somatic and, in particular, the mental health challenges that can affect many of the newcomers — often there is a connection between somatic and mental. Many of the new emergency facilities are in small municipalities with low primary health service capacity and far from DPS and hospitals. Many of them already have difficulty recruiting both permanent and health care sisters, but several of the larger municipalities also have limitations. In my own municipality, which gets a new emergency reception that opens today, we have e.g. no community esycologist. In Denmark, among others: Odense has experimented with ambulatory, multidisciplinary immigrant medical clinics in addition to both somatic and psychiatric competence, and they have interpreting services on board. Will the Council consider setting up an outpatient immigrant medical team in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e380	We look at different solutions to help the municipalities that the representative addresses. What we have done, and which is also presented in the supplementary issue for the Stortinget and other budgetary documents, is to strengthen regional resource centres on violence and traumatic stress. These are centres of expertise that municipalities, and not least the smaller municipalities, can use, and we see that they also use in situations where they feel that they themselves do not have the skills to deal with these kinds of mental health challenges, including: if they receive an asylum reception. The additional number also proposes strengthening the allocation of these municipalities, in proportion to the Ministry of Justice’s budget, but justified by the need for health services to be built up by these municipalities. We also need to look at different ways of working together to help those municipalities that have concrete challenges. I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e387	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e391	The Nordic countries together receive many refugees and asylum seekers. In the number of countries, there is a variation between countries, where Sweden stands out by accepting many more than Norway, while Denmark and Finland receive fewer than Norway. We would like to look to neighbouring countries to coordinate legislation and rights in the area of living, but how much do we cooperate in the area of health? Ketil Kjeseth mentioned among others: that Denmark has tried out immigrant medical clinics. They have also gone a long way with telemedicine-based mental health follow-up of refugees and asylum seekers. The Nordic Welfare Centre and the Nordic Council of Ministers are bodies to play on. In the situation we're in, it's important both to learn from each other and not to do unnecessary double work. So my question is, to what extent is there a common Nordic cooperation on health follow-up, cooperation and learning across?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e400	We have close cooperation in health at Nordic level and learn a lot from each other. The Nordic Health Ministers meet regularly and have good contact. I fully agree that it is also wise to look at ideas from other countries. In the issue of rights, if you are registered as an asylum seeker in Norway, you have a basic right to health care. This means that the normal approach to this – and the one on which we must build – is that municipalities are also responsible for primary health services in the case of asylum seekers, and that the specialist health service is responsible for the specialist health services. This works now – there will be more pressure in the future. The Health Directorate is involved in this work. We receive daily reports from the county councillors, which follow the situation in the municipalities, and also reports from health companies, which follow the situation in the specialist health service. The Directorate for Health also has its own liaison in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, precisely in order to have a closer cooperation... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e409	Time's up. Ruth Grung – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e412	I think we should all be humiliating to the way municipalities across the country have accepted and provided asylum reception. Mountain municipality is one of the municipalities that over a weekend got 160 refugees or asylum seekers – and new charter aircraft are on their way. It was stated that the asylum seekers should be screened for tuberculosis in advance, but after one week the health sister got an overview that showed that this was not the case. Mountain municipality is a medium-sized municipality. They don't have x-ray equipment. They borrowed it from Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital and are now in the process of screening – it is a very contagious disease. In addition, it is uncertain what other diseases asylum seekers have. The question is: how will the Minister of Health ensure that all asylum seekers are screened, at least for tuberculosis, before they arrive at an asylum reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e419	It is true that we had cases where one from Storskog reported asylum seekers to receive more south in the country – the representative mentioned one of these municipalities – and was moved before tuberculosis screening was carried out. These persons have now been identified and tuberculosis control has been implemented. According to yesterday's report, tuberculosis control is now under control. This is one of the themes that we're following very closely. I fully agree that we must have great humility and respect for the municipalities that handle this in a very good and demanding way. Although they are able to turn around in an impressive way with the resources they have today, we must recognise – both as a government and as a magnificence – that these are municipalities that will need more help in the future, when this gets more settled. There we also have to contribute, both financially and with personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e426	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e429	A week ago, the Council of State with me and other politicians were at a meeting here in Oslo, where we met a group called Psychiatric Health Professionals. There are many young people who have experienced how Health-Norway meets their mental challenges. One of the people we met had grown up in a care center for minor asylum seekers. He made an inconceivable strong impression on me -- it wasn't enough adults, and there were problems with language that made him unable to express his mental challenges and his traumas. How does the Council of State view meeting these young people, who have so many experiences and mental challenges, when the government in its own budget and in the supplementary proposition has proposed cutting down on just language training and staffing at exactly those care centres where these minors live?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e436	To the specific question: when it comes to the budget, the responsibility lies with another Council of State. But I would also like to remind you that the government in the same document has proposed a rather large increase in the general grant to the municipalities that have that type of reception, and one has to see this in a context. So it's also important that children get good help. It is also important that we be able to mobilise in our society, for example. in the case of foster parents. The best thing for these children is to avoid staying for a long time at this type of reception, but get out and start their new life as soon as possible. I also think it is important to build up regional centres of expertise on violence and traumatic stress. There is a resource that municipalities use today, and that gets a lot of positive feedback, and this is a service that municipalities that meet challenges can take advantage of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e445	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e448	Asylum seekers are entitled to treatment in specialist health services. In the supplementary proposition, there was 11 million. NOK for tuberculosis screening, but beyond that, no extra funds have been put in to meet the situation we are in. In the proposition, the government writes that ‘the Special Health Service Action Space will be somewhat reduced’. Further type: ‘It may make it more challenging to achieve reduced waiting times, while at the same time postponing some investments.’ [[...]] So the government proposes to increase the withdrawal from the red tape and efficiency reform from 0.5 to 0.6 pst., i.e. that hospitals get an even stronger demand for more efficiency in such a situation. The question is, why has the government not proposed to increase the hospital budget as a result of the situation we are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e460	In the case of tuberculosis screening, there is a task below the reception system, but where the specialist health service contributes. That is also one of the reasons why we are now proposing to give more money to that. What the representative addresses is that as a result of the increased influx of refugees and asylum seekers, the population base for health care assistance will be increased. Reports show that the disease situation is not yet particularly prominent here, but some will also need assistance from the specialist health service in the future. That is why I am now clear to the Stortinget that this may affect the objective of reducing time-limits, and may also lead to some investments in hospitals being shifted, simply because, in our opinion, hospitals have the absolute ability and capacity to handle this, but it may go beyond other tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e468	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e471	My question goes to Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende. At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, rich countries promised at least 100 billion. dollars annually in climate finance for poor countries by 2020. The promise has been very important to build trust between rich and poor countries in climate negotiations, and it has been important for climate reasons. We in rich countries only have to cross their fingers and hope that poor countries see that the energy revolution is more based on renewable energy sources than what our own development has been. Therefore, climate funding means support for renewable electrification of rural areas, reading lights for children, electricity for incubators in hospitals and industrial development. At the same time, we know that poor countries are hit hardest by climate change. Therefore, climate finance means that poor countries can receive support to adapt their agriculture to climate change. It is important in a world that will provide enough food for all in the time of climate change. Now it's moving towards the climate summit in Paris. The government has proposed that Norway go to the climate negotiations with a total cut in the negotiation case of 1.5 billion. kr in support of the efforts of poor countries to achieve climate change. Over 1 billion. kr of this cut is in the budget for which Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende is responsible. The government has been justifying the strong relief measures of the refugee crisis. But seriously, the world has to deal with more than one crisis. Why will Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Burnde step down the climate support to poor countries, when Norway and other rich countries have promised to escalate it? Isn't there just such a breach of promises that destroys the trust needed between rich and poor countries, in order to reach the best possible agreement in Paris?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e482	I think it's necessary to put that question in a slightly wider context. The government has had to re-prioritize 4 billion. Dr from the aid budget to also cover the increased costs of refugees and asylum seekers that we receive for the next year – next year we expect approx. 33,000 asylum seekers to Norway – in line with what previous governments have done. The government in which Eidsvoll Holmås sat in, used 10 pst. of the aid budget, a much lower figure, to help people in need, in Norway. And both our neighbouring country, the red-green government in Sweden and the government in Denmark, and the government in the Netherlands, take advantage of the opportunity offered by the international legislation – that we can use the opportunity to help people who come to our country. And Norway is not in the same situation that we were in just a few years ago. The oil price is halved. We are facing increasing unemployment. We are not able to deal with the large flow of asylum without having to look at the possibility we have, among other things. to use assistance. But on the question that was asked, you can get the impression that we are not going to do anything in this area now. It is that with the budget presented by the government and with the additional proposition, Norway is likely to be the country in the world that spends the most dollars per head on climate finance. We are still the largest in the rainforest, we are very important in financing the climate fund, we are important in renewable energy, but we have to assume that the aid budget must also help those who come to Norway. I think the representative understands that, because the representative's government chose to use 10 pst. by the aid budget, a much lower figure than today, on refugees in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e489	It was – with all due respect – not an answer to my question about why it made sense to cut, when our promises are about to escalate. It makes me wonder if it is the climate dissidents in the government who have been put through, or whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is just running a terrible foreign policy. If I can then move on to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget lines on the environment and sustainable development: it is in the supplementary proposal to the State budget that agreements must be concluded as a result of the cuts that are now being proposed, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs has refused to answer what these breaches mean. That is why I ask: has the Foreign Minister planned to break off cooperation with the poor country of Malawi, where Norway supports the efforts to adapt agriculture to climate change? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is good climate and development policy to break agreements with Nepal, where evaluation of energy cooperation has shown positive results, but where the earthquake has now hit hard? And: Is the plan to break the recently concluded agreement with Tanzania on the electrification of rural areas? I require an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e496	I hope the representative also listens to the answers he receives. This isn't about cutting, it's about red-greening, like what the government in Sweden is doing, what the government in Denmark is doing, and what the government in the Netherlands is doing. We are in that situation – and I hope the representative can also take over – that 33 000 refugees and asylum seekers will arrive in Norway next year. We have all our focus on how we're going to manage this, how we're going to bring down the number. We rely on the aid budget, which is an opportunity to use to cover the extraordinary costs of the first year. We must redo something from the aid budget to this – as the representative's government did in its time. So taking on the high voice now and almost only condemning this without putting it in a broader context and explaining why this redistribution is happening, I don't think I'm responsible. We'll probably still be the country in the world that spends most per capita on climate finance, and I think that the representative could also have got into his reasoning, to be despicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e503	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e506	What is not responsible is not to tell the whole story about the budgetary process. First, the Børge Brende's government spent unhesitatingly a lot of money on its own heart issues, especially tax cuts for people who have good advice from before. Then the government cut the aid. It should not be said that it was necessary to cut climate action and poverty measures in order to achieve this ashore; the government could choose to reduce its own tax cuts ambitions. So the Foreign Minister does not answer the question. The core of the question is: how do we target the international processes in which Norway would be a driving force against poverty and climate change, if we ourselves just before the Paris climate summit, just as we have reached the sustainability targets, cut our own allocations? If you do, you obviously don't believe Norway can play a driving role in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e511	With the budget that the government has presented, we're using $27.5 billion. kr for assistance and development aid. I think there is only one country in the world that spends more per capita than Norway, and then I have kept the expenditure to cover the costs of refugees and asylum seekers in Norway outside. And what does the government do? Well, we have presented a budget where there is probably no other country in the world that spends so much on preserving rainforest, renewable energy, and on the climate fund like Norway. Trying to present this as a total abdidate, that we don't take responsibility, when we may only be in the world after Luxembourg in terms of total aid, when we're leading the world, probably number one, in terms of climate finance – that's well done. But we've had to do some re-priorities, we've had to cut in some areas to redispatch and apply to others. I know that, but that's what we've been forced to do when we're facing an extraordinary situation with 33 000 asylum seekers. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] We also have to cover this in the way that...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e516	That's it. Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e521	Last year the Prime Minister said it's tough to stand up for the climate in a government where people aren't so busy with the climate. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the same job in standing up for development policy in a government where not everyone is so concerned about it. The main meeting to be held this year shall take place in Paris in a period of one month. There world leaders will meet, and we know that one of the most difficult issues is the financing of climate action in developing countries. If the Foreign Minister gets what he wants, the Stortinget will make a big cut the week before the Paris Summit. We don't meet our own obligations for the rainforest, we're going to cut for international climate processes. And even though the Minister of Foreign Affairs will not answer questions from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, we are therefore going to break concluded agreements. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to a special situation. Well, climate policy is a special and urgent situation. And the problem is that there is not one foreign minister in the world who cannot point to a special situation in his country – most of them have bigger challenges than what we have here in Norway. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is then whether he will be satisfied with an outcome in Paris that, overall, provides less money for climate finance in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e534	I just want to remind the representative that the Social Democratic Finance Minister in Sweden has given an interview where she says that due to the extraordinary influx of asylum seekers, you might have to use 50 pst. of the assistance budget to cover the costs. We're going to go into COP21, the climate summit in Paris, with probably the highest budget per capita for climate finance. Are we going to bother ourselves in such a situation where we need to spend some more money to cover up these extraordinary costs, misrepresenting what Norway is doing? We're going to go into that climate summit -- and we're getting recognition for that -- with probably spending the most per capita in the world. We have rainforest bets, we have renewable bets, we have increased investment in the climate fund. This is a comprehensive policy within climate, partly funded by assistance, with which we can be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e544	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e547	The Minister for Foreign Affairs provided a budget with the largest cut in long-term assistance ever. I fundamentally disagree with that cut. I have to admit that I was disappointed, and I almost got hurt in my stomach when I read the additional number. But when a first cutter, chooses one to cut 10-20 pst. to the World Bank and the United Nations, a choice to cut about the same for bilateral assistance, budget support country-to-country, and then you choose to cut 67 pst, two-thirds, to civil society, an aid through non-governmental organisations. It plays a role in what type of assistance a user uses. Sometimes one says that those organisations can apply for assistance through emergency humanitarian aid. The point is not the organisations, the point is that long-term development assistance is best done – or at least the goal of reaching the poorest in the most effective way possible, I think, and I thought many Right-wing people meant the same – through voluntary organisations. So what is the technical or political argument that one chooses to erase civil society on the aid budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e556	There's a lot of things to do here. With the budget that we submitted, the supplementary proposal, we added 1 billion. for assistance. Norway is now using 1.03 pst. of GNI for assistance. We are, even if we take out the refugee and asylum-seeker expenses in Norway, number two in the world after Luxembourg. And then it's presented as if there's no resources left. Within these frameworks, where we have had to re-prioritize, as our neighbouring country has also done, we have managed to increase the humanitarian effort to Syria and neighbouring countries by 1 billion. We've spent half a billion on education, not least for girls, to avoid radicalization. We have stepped up the commitment to health and vaccination. And the escalation that we have in these areas will also benefit civil society and these organizations. With the budget we have presented, there is probably no country in the world that spends so much money on its aid budget on civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e563	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e566	So you have to show some soberness in this. I think the Christian People's Party has the sense of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e571	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e574	Climate change and population growth are the two most important elements that will lead to future crises and drive people away. We see developments in the Sahel area, in Ethiopia and several other places, where there is a drought and despairing shortage of food. The Norwegian agricultural aid is now only 4 pst., and the government has in its additional proposition cut further – which will result in very negative consequences for food production and in food security research. Among other things, the important work of the CGIAR Consortium and the Global Crop Diversity Trust on research and collection of seed material will be at risk. Recently, the seed bank of Svalbard has picked up material and used it in the vicinity of Syria, since the Aleppo gene bank is damaged as a result of the war and one can no longer supply land in the Middle East with seed material. Does the Minister think that food security and food security support are important to prevent and avoid future disasters?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e588	Yes, and therefore we have focused more on humanitarian aid, which now helps to ensure that the World Food Programme does not have to cut its efforts into Syria and neighbouring countries and into forgotten crises. But I have had to make some repriorities in the budget presented. That's it. When we get such a violent influx of refugees and asylum seekers, we need to use parts of the aid budget – as our neighbouring countries do – to cover this. One of the areas in which the budget has been reduced is agricultural research funded through aid. I also have e.g. had to cut 10 million. kr, which we have used on the aid issue, a magazine to inform about assistance. I think that is excellent, but I do not think it should happen over the aid budget. I have also cut support for information from some organisations involved in information in Norway. I would rather spend the money on assistance. So what I've prioritised is humanitarian support, education and health. I have had to reduce in some other areas, but we are still that country in the world, after Luxembourg, which provides the most assistance per capita: 27.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e597	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e600	The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that we must. I have learned that you have to die, and you have to pay taxes, but here there is no forced situation. The left has also put forward a government budget that takes account of the extra costs we have because of the refugee situation, and we can cover it in other ways, without reducing the aid budget. So this is clearly a priority that the government has done. Then my question becomes a follow-up of the representative of Ropstads, who is about the dramatic cut that goes against civil society, voluntary and non-profit organisations, where support is reduced by 67 p.m., which will lead to dramatic cuts in the activity that they have. Then I have to repeat: what is the professional basis for this, and why has the Foreign Minister chosen to do the big reduction right there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e610	This is happening within the framework of the aid budget that has been given, because we need to spend more on covering refugee and asylum seekers' costs in Norway. In fact, I think that is right and fair, and that is something our neighbouring countries also do, and what all previous governments in Norway have done. It is said that this is something new, but it has been done, and it is in line with the international legislation. The government has chosen, even with the budgetary frameworks, to invest more in humanitarian aid. We are one of the countries that gives the most to Syria and neighbouring countries. We give more to health, and we give more to education. And many of the organisations that the representative mentioned are the largest recipients from these budgets, so they also have to focus their activity on what is most important, namely humanitarian work, health and education. I want to add that assistance is not the only gratifying thing. Development, jobs and the private sector are also important. In 1990, aid amounted to 50 p.m. of capital inflows to developing countries – today it is 20 pst. We're going to make fewer countries dependent on assistance. We must also bear that in mind in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e619	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e622	My question goes to Health Minister Bent Höie, who has tried to present the government's performance reform free treatment choices, as a new freedom of choice for patients. In reality, Norwegian patients have been free to choose a treatment site from 2001 onwards, when the reform was introduced free of hospital choice – a scheme which was extended under the red-green government and which the Workers' Party will continue to develop. The health minister’s claim to free choice of treatment is that now all so-called free capacity is to be put into service, cows are to be eliminated, and health insurance needs are to disappear – all at a price lower than the lowest bid price in the market, but with equal quality of treatment. Now it seems that this assumption gets a big shot for the bow. «Skivebom», says the Director of the Private Hospital in Haugesund, Turid Staveland Nygaard, to Today's Business on the prices set for free treatment choices, and adds that she would never allow herself to operate at such low cost: "We're not going to sign up. If we do it, we'll go concubine." She goes on to say, “Then it becomes like before, we get to deliver to those who can afford to pay for the treatment and to patients with health insurance.” The director of Aleris, Grethe Aasved, also expressed great scepticism, and as if it were not enough, they come with the same message: Work believes the prices are not serious, Blue Cross cannot deliver on such terms, Modum Bad reports that this does not hold, and so are the messages largely across the line. Free treatment options are designed as a bureaucratic, circumstantial and relatively expensive system to administer, and therefore I ask for the following: Will the Minister of Health accept a lower quality of treatment, offer a higher price to private actors at the expense of public hospital budgets in order to succeed, or will he simply consider putting away the entire experiment as it is designed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e645	First, all those who now heard the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, who tried to represent what I thought was the objectives of free treatment, must go to the source and not listen to Tove Karoline Knutsen's performance, because it is wrong. The aim of free treatment options is to give patients greater choice and to reduce unnecessary waiting. I am also fully convinced that the reform will contribute to this, because today there are patients facing quotas where today's tendering system limits how many patients can be treated by authorised private operators. Those entering free treatment will not have that type of quota, and the patient will have greater freedom of choice, and it will help reduce unnecessary waiting. The ones the representative here refers to are all organisations and institutions that have supported the reform. What they, like private actors, are dissatisfied with, is the price. I'm not surprised. If you are a private supplier, of course you want the highest price possible. It's the Health Directorate that sets the price. The price is determined on the basis of the criteria set by the Stortinget, and I think it is too early to pass a judgment on the question of whether or not private operators want to be part of this scheme, with the prices presented a week and a half ago, or not. There are large, serious actors — both in the field of drugs and mental health — who have already reported their interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e654	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e657	I understand that the Minister of Health needs to jump from what he said when he was in opposition, but leave it alone. I do not think he takes seriously the market’s response – or lack of response – to this. But see, he has to take over what the market says and make an economic charge to private to succeed – what will happen then? We can look to Denmark, where the civil government started trials in 2007 with free treatment choices. Danish patients could now, after a certain number of days, freely choose to be treated by private persons without public contracts. They agreed on a very high price, and started, what happened was that the costs came out of control, the waiting times increased, and a debate was held that resources should be moved from the public health sector to private actors. The end of the visa was that the same government took away the whole scheme and went to free hospital choice, as we have had in Norway until now. If the market dynamics were to enter and we get Danish conditions here, will the Council consider putting away the system of free treatment choices as it is now designed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e666	Denmark has never had a free choice of treatment, so that comparison does not stand. In addition, the market solution is the solution of the Workers' Party. The reply of the working party is one-sided to use the tendering principle. This will mean that in the future – if implemented – patients will again face allowances and limitations, which require them to wait unnecessarily long for treatment, even if authorised private operators have free capacity. I record that the Workers' Party now promises that if they regain power, they will reverse free treatment options. I hope the voters remember that, not least people who are addicted to drugs or have mental disorders, who will be the first to get this extended right. The self-organisations of addicts have been very clear both in their support for the reform and in their concern for the Workers' Party's promise to reverse this important improvement in patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e673	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e676	I can comfort the Council of State that the Workers' Party will continue to strengthen and develop freedom of choice for Norwegian patients. But what we don't want is to continue a virtually free right of establishment for private, commercial actors at the expense of public hospitals. In a debate with the Workers’ Party’s Torgeir Micasen on TV 2 on 4 November, the Minister for Health said that the system of free choice of treatment does not have a financial framework or a thank-you, but that all available capacity should be used. I realized that the answer he gave to the previous questioner was also in that direction. Later, the Council of State has turned down and announced that free treatment options will provide a framework for the next year of 450 million. kr. We know that all public health activities are subject to clear economic frameworks and priorities. Can the Council of State clarify this: Does he believe that those with free choice of treatment should be the only ones in the healthcare system who should not have a framework for their activities, or does he believe that they should also have a clear framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e685	The cost of free choice of treatment is estimated — and visible in the State budget — at over 400 million. kr, so that the Storting, if they adopt the budget as promoted by the government, will grant it the cost of free treatment choice in 2016. Extensions of the system of free treatment choices will be calculated and proposed for the Storting and will have economic consequences, which will be covered. The representative may not have had it with him, but this government has removed the roof of the public hospitals’ ability to treat patients. This means that public hospitals now have a completely different freedom to increase their activity, while also increasing the effort-driven funding. This means that hospitals with an opportunity and available capacity can treat several patients, as long as they have control of the economy, and it can be financed within input-driven funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e692	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e696	The primary instrument for using the free capacity of private individuals should still be available — it establishes the government in the proposal for free treatment options — and a bid to increase private use through supply becomes part of the free treatment option reform. The government has instructed healthcare professionals to create a strategy to increase private use and have required them to purchase more services from private enterprises. The local hospital at Voss had an agreement with the health care agency on a certain amount of planned treatments of a kind of nice skin cancer. This was lost because the health service was required to give more to private people — they lost it when the health service gave it work to private people through supply. Does not the Council of State think that health professionals themselves should have been able to determine how much private they are natural and easy to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e703	I am not surprised that the representative has the perspective that is essentially the red-green perspective in the face of healthcare, the perspective of the system. My perspective is the patient. I believe that the most important thing is that the patient gets quick, good and safe help, not who does the job. The main solution will be to get help in the public hospitals. We believe that it is a good idea to use a tender as a system when you are going to use it in private. However, tenders have a restriction, and therefore, in addition, we have introduced free treatment choices, precisely from the perspective of the patient – the possibility of getting faster help and greater choice. That's the perspective that's now going to apply. I know that under the red-green government there was another steering signal to the companies, that they should primarily strive to use their own hospitals before they were allowed to use private ones. The consequence was that hospital queues and waiting times increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e710	Ketil Kjeseth - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e713	I record that the Workers' Party is trying to draw a picture of free treatment options such as the'stitch on the back'. Now we are in a situation where some private actors do not respond because the price seems to be too low. We can still face a situation where public hospitals are taking out capacity – it is good that we increase capacity. In the alternative government budget of the Left, we are adding more to public–private cooperation. We now see that the prices of free choice of treatment are getting low, and it is a concern that we are not taking out the cooperation gains that are possible between private and public, in the sense that price becomes a bit of a bond, and that we are not getting out the opportunities for innovation and development of skills, but also when it comes to reducing waiting times that are in free choice of treatment, where other public-private cooperation agreements can be made. My question is really whether the Council of State will strengthen public–private cooperation as an alternative model to free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e720	We are in favour of public–private cooperation. Where public health services are to purchase healthcare from private subcontractors, the applicable public procurement rules will apply. There are many possibilities. We have established free treatment choices as a system on the page, where the Health Directorate determines the prices, and where private people have the opportunity to be approved as suppliers and have to know the conditions for doing so. We think that's a wise approach, and we're glad that the Left supports it. So part of our message to the health services is that they need to be better able to look at the private actors not only as competitors, but also as partners and work together professionally and clearly distinguish between the role where one is buying at a time and the partner at a different time. I fully agree with the Left. But then I'm probably worried about Left's alternative budget, where a kutter quite powerfully in the public hospitals. It does not help to have a little more money for public–private cooperation when a kutter is so powerful in public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e727	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e739	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this respect, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, by Mr Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Transport, will be taken up by the representative Sverre Myrli. Questions 3, 4 and 5 from the representatives of Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Trine Skei Grande and Ingunn Gjerstad respectively to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are proposed – at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – moved and answered before question 1. Question 4, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Ola Elvestuen. Question 5, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Question 7, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister of Culture, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has declared himself incapacitated. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is proposed to be moved and answered before question 24, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative of Mr Micasen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare, who will address him. Question 11, from the representative Lene Vågslid to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Defence, who will direct him. This question falls due to illness. Question 14, from the representative Martin Henriksen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be taken up by the representative Anniken Huitfeldt. Question 15, from the representative Sonja Mandt to the Minister for Health and Welfare, at the request of the Minister for Health and Welfare, is moved and answered for question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e765	The first question after these changes will then be question 3 from the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e772	«In answer to written question No. 54 and 82 have recently made it clear to the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the government will not support the UN General Assembly resolutions on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons and on the ethical responsibility of States to ban and abolish nuclear weapons. [[2015-2016]] This is seen as a clear shift of lines by the government and a break in Norway’s leadership role in the work of banning nuclear weapons. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs explain what lies behind the government's shift in line, and what has changed since the debate in ours?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e779	Yes, he can explain it – with the greatest joy. The government's disarmament and non-proliferation policy remains based on our commitments under the Non-Proliferation Agreement – the NPT – and the goal of a nuclear-free world. It is also important for us that what we do in this area is in line with our NATO commitments. I hope that also applies to the Norwegian Workers' Party. We are still on the evidence-based humanitarian initiative, to which the previous government took the initiative. This is not a new line, but rather a continuation of Norwegian disarmament policy. When we did not vote in favour of the proposals mentioned, it was not because we are opposed to everything there, but because both the wording and the context indicate that it is actually a ban on nuclear weapons. The time is not ripe for that. Norway has been constantly concerned not to start such a polarising process, but to look specifically at evidence-based knowledge of the consequences of nuclear detonations. What was an inclusive and constructive contribution to international disarmament work has now evolved into a divisive debate on bans. This does not serve real disarmament. Going in for a ban now would break with NATO's 2010 strategic concept, which states that NATO will be a nuclear alliance as long as there are nuclear weapons. As Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, has said: As long as there are nuclear weapons, NATO will also have it. I think that's what the Secretary-General has told me. Therefore, no NATO country – none – voted in favour of resolutions aimed at a ban, nor did Norway. The current security policy situation does not give room to doubt Norway’s relationship with NATO. This is an important lead for Norway's vote in the UN. If we are to achieve a nuclear-free world, we must follow a path that is realistic. This involves an inclusive process, negotiated reductions and measures to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons. Norway promotes effective and constructive measures for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The work we do in the verification of disarmament is important. Through the nuclear safety summit, we are taking the initiative to reduce the amounts of fissile material in the world. Supporting a prohibition process now – as the only NATO country – would be irresponsible. Many countries have also expressed concern at the polarisation that the proposed ban has led to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e805	The Foreign Minister argues in his response here and elsewhere that it is the humanitarian initiative that is changing, not Norway’s attitude. The Labour Party does not agree. Norway has gone from being an active driver in this work and has a leading role in the humanitarian initiative to actively counter it. This is a line break. Norway does not now support the humanitarian initiative leading to the launch of international negotiations on a new legal instrument. The red-green line was different. In the closing post of the Oslo Conference, Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide just called for a discussion on the development of various international agreements, including an agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons. In the spring, the majority of the population made it clear in comments and the debate that we believe Norway has to take a leading role in the work of banning nuclear weapons, and that this was compatible with NATO membership. The size senses a new line break from the government. The opposition is in agreement. So what does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the government's new line has no support in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e812	It's actually not going to be a line shift, even if the representative repeats it and repeats it. The government did not perform any line break. We stick to the course that the red-green government held in this matter. What has changed are, among other things, the security policy image in Europe and in the world. It hasn't been decisive, but I think we should take over it too. What has changed is that the content of the resolutions now presented is such that no NATO country can support it, because it is contrary to NATO’s strategic concept adopted by NATO’s 2010 summit. Since the spring 2013 humanitarian initiative, Austria has promoted Austrian Pudge, which is a ban here and now, not a long-term effort to promote legal processes, which this majority comment addressed, and with which I have no problems. But a ban here and now is not in line with NATO membership, and these three resolutions were linked. It's underlined by these organizations themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e817	The Foreign Minister stresses that there is no line change. That is why I want to go into the explanation of vote that came from Norway in the UN General Assembly, which reinforces the idea that there has been a shift in Norwegian foreign policy, which comes not only from repeating it, but which lies in the explanation of vote. There the government expresses itself negatively about the value of a ban and says that a process to ban nuclear weapons can contribute to the polarisation of the international community, and that it will undermine the Non-proliferation Agreement. So I will again challenge the Foreign Minister on this: Can he clarify? What is behind the assessment where Norway is now expressing a negative opinion about the value of a ban? Isn't this a line break?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e822	I've established that there's no line break. What has changed is that after spring 2013, Austria has promoted a resolution calling for a ban here and now. I have not come to understand that the Workers' Party is in favour of any ban on nuclear weapons today – I have understood that it is considered to be contrary to NATO's strategy. As long as there are nuclear weapons, NATO must have them, not least to defend us. But what's in the majority comment in Stortinget from this spring is that you can start work on balanced disarmament. Well, you agree, you make sure that there's no nuclear weapons in your hands on those who shouldn't, and then you can start a legal process that sometime in the future can lead to this. But the new thing is that Austria says: a ban now, and they connect these three resolutions. And when, in the resolution we had to refrain from, it says "all efforts", it is interpreted as also referring to Humanitarian Pledge and Austrian Pledge, so that it will be voting for a ban. Therefore, no NATO country could join this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e831	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Ola Elvestuen because of the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e834	‘Leger Without Borders identifies 10 forgotten crises in the ‘10 forgotten crises’ school project. I” – the representative Trine Skei Grande – “have visited the 10th grade at Åheim School in the municipality of Vanylven. They worked especially with five of these crises. The students have worked well to find out how to deal with the forgotten crises and give their recommendations to the Norwegian authorities. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to help increase the focus on, and not least address, the forgotten crises in the world, which Doctors Without Borders are raising in their school project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e841	Thank you for that, and I hope the representative can greet you back to the Skei Grande and wish you well. She had already had an incipient flu last night, but it is nice that we can do this, and that I am given the opportunity to answer about the forgotten crises. Through our humanitarian efforts and efforts in global health, Norway is – in some way – engaged in all the ten so-called forgotten crises identified by Doctor Without Borders. Norway contributes more than 4 billion. kr in humanitarian aid this year. We channel considerable funds through the UN Emergency Aid Fund, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme and the Red Cross Emergency Aid Fund. We do this in order for organisations to be able to respond quickly when necessary, not least in the crises that do not reach the news picture. We have close dialogue with our humanitarian partners, including Norwegian non-governmental organisations. We focus on reaching the most vulnerable and contributing where the needs are greatest. In connection with the World's humanitarian day, the government announced $30 million. for the relief work in the event of forgotten humanitarian crises. Both Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo were welcomed. Norway also supports Doctors Without Borders’ important work in the Central African Republic. Several of the so-called forgotten crises have in common that they have lasted a long time. In addition to saving lives and relieving distress, we also need to ensure that our investments contribute to long-term development and sustainability. The government is strengthening the efforts of vulnerable states in the budget we have presented. Six of these – Afghanistan, Haiti, Mali, Palestine, Somalia and South Sudan – have been selected as focus countries for Norwegian development cooperation. Here we will go new ways and put humanitarian efforts into a broader strategy for development. Health and education are, as we have discussed earlier today, priority areas in Norwegian aid. Norway has increased investment in health research, which has contributed to the development of ebolavaccine, among others. Through the UNITAID system, we have contributed to the development of HIV medicines for children and have made important contributions to the global response to tuberculosis. These are both forgotten crises. Norway is also a major contributor to the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e860	I thank you for your answer. The Foreign Minister was in many of the forgotten crises. I'm not going to go through all ten, but just mention: there's a lack of mental health care; every other abortion is fatal; the situation in Congo; HIV children don't get good medicine; malaria kills every minute, as well as the situation in the Central African Republic and so the situation of a few doctors in Chad, which the Foreign Minister was in. There is no doubt that Norway is making a great deal of effort. These are crises that have often lasted a long time. It will also take a long time to remedy. Then my question – also in the light of the discussions and questions earlier in the ordinary Question Time: Is the Foreign Minister concerned that the redundancies currently taking place due to an exceptional situation with many refugees in Norway are weakening long-term assistance, not least through various non-governmental organisations and non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e869	That's an important question. What we have tried through the budget we have presented is not least to focus aid on both forgotten crises and where the humanitarian needs are greatest. There is a great difference between countries that are working out of poverty and that can become middle-income countries, and those who are at war and conflict and have humanitarian crises. The last category is completely dependent on assistance. The first is more complex, where investment is an important part of the picture. Through a historic humanitarian budget of nearly 5 billion. kr, by now adding resources to the education effort and health effort, and we have tried to sharpen the Africa allocation to those who have the most needs, I believe that we have hit this in such a way that Norway will still be at the forefront of these crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e878	Fortunately, it is not the budget proposed, which will be the one to be finally adopted. It is important to distinguish between the long-term conditions — the aid may go up and down, but the project and capacity may be continued — and the situations in which the measures themselves are being eliminated, by having budget changes year by year. Then my question becomes: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is important that we now work together – both the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government's parties – to get a final budget, that we should be careful that long-term projects that could disappear with the budget that is now proposed can also be maintained in the future, just to remedy the long-term crises that have been raised here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e885	I wonder if this is a trick question, as they call it. I have to say that I do not accept all the premises on this issue, but I think it is good that the aid budget is now being negotiated. I think we have a common interest in the fact that we have to give priority to the most important thing. If more resources are available, we must try to make sure that they go where the needs are greatest, to the humanitarian, to the countries where the needs are greatest. I hope that this does not mean that more money for assistance will be used, for example. in Norway. I think the Norwegian people would be very surprised if they knew how much of the aid ends in Norway. I hope that with the possible new resources we get, we can further strengthen Africa's allocation, that we might be able to strengthen some of what we're doing in the climate. I also think it is important for us to be able to spend more on humanitarian aid, not least in Lebanon and Jordan. If the Left joins in within proper limits, I'm very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e898	This question, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e901	Now we're going to Liberia: ‘Nearly two months ago, Liberia could declare itself Ebola-free. The disaster delayed the reconstruction of an energy supply in the country, a work for which Norway has been a long-term supporter. It has significant potential for both hydropower, solar and bioenergy. Mount Coffee river power plant was destroyed during the civil war and is to be rebuilt. Will Norway continue to support Liberia’s efforts to do this in 2016, so that reconstruction becomes a reality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e910	The reconstruction of Mount Coffee, which was destroyed during the civil war, as the representative said, is important for Liberia's future. Reconstruction has not become less important since the ebola outbreak. I myself was in Liberia a year ago and know what this hydropower plant means to people, not least for economic development, but also for political stability in the country. Norway is a central player in the reconstruction process. We will also be in the future. The project started as a co-financing between Liberia, Norway and Germany and with loans from the European Development Bank EIB. The outbreak of Ebola in 2014-2015 led to a serious setback in Liberia’s economy. Norway, as the most flexible of donors, decided to cover much of Liberia’s contribution – I think it is also important to bring it with us – so we went beyond what we had originally committed ourselves to. This was something I discussed with President Johnson Sirleaf during my visit during the Ebola outbreak. We showed solidarity, not only in view of the short-term management of Ebola, but also the long-term. To date, Norway has contributed 400 million. kr for this project and have planned to contribute further approx. Ninety million. kr in 2015. Norway has also consistently supported key functions in the overall management of the energy sector in Liberia. It's crucial. We saw, for example, the failure of the overall health management. One thing is to vaccinate, but building infrastructure is also important. This overall management of the energy sector in Liberia was not least to ensure that the electricity produced actually reaches people, schools, hospitals, government and business. The cost of reconstruction has been far greater than planned due to under-budgeting and exchange rate changes — the Norwegian krona and the euro have been weakened against the dollar — and costly delays due to the ebola epidemic. Norway has not yet concluded a new agreement, addendum to the current agreement, to provide additional funding for Mount Coffee in addition to what we have already committed ourselves to, but we are now in dialogue with other donors on how to cover these additional costs. We are particularly pleased that the United States, through its Millennium Challenge Corporation, has joined forces and is planning a significant amount. Any additional allocation to Mount Coffee in 2016, in addition to the 90 million. kr extra for 2015, will need to be covered from the renewable energy entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e921	I am glad that Børge Brende says that we will also be central in the continuation here. This is – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says – about the success of the project, which is planned to be completed in December next year. It has been a decisive election vow, a promise of implementation, from Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and I would say that it would be heartbroken if we were to say on the rise side to drop off, when we know that the background for the extra costs, just as the Foreign Minister says, is a weakening of the crown price, and not least that the country was hit hard by Ebola. My first question – if I can give it – is: Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that this project will be implemented if we do not set up in line with the signals we have now given on the full funding of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e928	In the case of full funding, it was intended that Liberia should not contribute insignificantly itself. They are not able to do so, and Norway went in and took a not insignificant share of this. Then we've covered with over NOK 400 million, and then we've come up with $90 million. Extra kroner. In terms of the reason why this has become much more expensive than you had planned, the dollar and the euro rate are one thing, another thing is Ebola. But when you go into the project, as I have done, we have seen that there is also a huge increase in costs, because it was under-budgeting when you started this. You've used a lot more than you initially thought. This must be a spice layer, since Norway is not alone in this. Now we have to try to get others with us too – the Americans have come in, hopefully, and we'll try to get others to step in. However, within the appropriations available to us, Norway will, of course, also contribute to the continuation. In the worst case – if you can't complete this until next year – you may, unfortunately, have to look at it over two years, from 2016 and 2017, but we're trying to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e933	The reason why I ask this question is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has proposed a dramatic shaving of the entire renewable energy item – a total of 80 pst. over the last two years. I propose these concrete projects. I previously asked some questions about other concrete projects, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not respond to. But this concrete project is, of course, a project in progress, and a weakening of the appropriations for the renewable energy effort could, in the worst case, mean that this project, which is in progress and which has stopped due to the ebola, is further delayed. Therefore, I would like to ask the question: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that an increase in the budget line on renewable energy will increase the likelihood that Mount Coffee will be completed as planned in December 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e940	There are many different factors here that can't be answered. Is it possible to bring in other international actors? Is it possible to bring in other countries that can take an equal share? So far, Norway has largely had to cover the additional costs that have come, and we've spent almost 0.5 billion. kr. But as I say, if the framework for the next year's renewable effort remains standing, and it is adopted by the Stortinget, we will do what we can to try to cover the costs necessary for Norway. If we are not able to cover everything through that allocation, we may need to see this over two years, from 2016 to 2017. But it is not possible today to finally answer this, because there are so many factors, and I think it is time now that others are also treading. When it comes to renewables, it also needs to be seen in the context of a much more focus on Norfund, adding 100 million. kr in Norfund, you have the multiplier effect, so you get 10–14 times more private investment. It's getting even more renewable efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e949	We go back to question 1, from the representative Karianne O. Heavy to the Minister of Transport. The question will be raised by the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e956	‘In the 2016 government budget, the government proposes to increase the VAT on passenger transport services from 8 to 10 p.p. Increased VAT on public transport will either lead to an increase in the price of customers or loss of income for county municipalities. In the past, the Minister for Transport has stated that increased costs resulting from increased VAT will be compensated by proposals for government budgets. Can the Council of State guarantee that the price of public travel by bus will not be more expensive when VAT is increased?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e963	The answer to that is very brief: it's really just to look at the state budget, where we've put in the money that I've also mentioned. That's set at 67 million. kr in the Ministry of Transport's budget for this purpose, and the framework grant in the municipalities has increased by 142 million. kr, just to compensate for the increased rate of VAT. The VAT rate is set up as a result of recommendations from the Tax Committee, which will have a simpler and more uniform system. But people who use local buses and local trains to and from work in everyday life are compensated for this through the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e968	I hear the Minister for Transport say that increased costs for the public companies are compensated by proposals for the state budget. I can't believe that that's exactly right. According to the Central Statistical Office, total ticket sales for all forms of collective transport in Norway amount to between 11 and 12 billion. kr on an annual basis. 2 pst. VAT increase is then more than 200 million. kr. According to the State budget, which is now also referred to by the Minister for Transport, the government has set aside 67 million. kr for compensation for the increase in VAT. The Minister for Transport says that ticket prices should not go up even if VAT increases. How does he get this calculation to go up when it's 150 million missing? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e975	Then I refer to my answer, which I just gave. That's 67 million. kr over the Ministry of Transport's budget and SEK 142 million. kr in the framework grant to county councils. 142+67 is 209 million. kr, which is over 200 million. kr – the exact calculation that the representative Myrli himself took up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e980	I am reassured if the Minister for Transport now says that he has fully compensated for what is then the increased costs of the transport companies or county municipalities. If that's the case, it's very good. My question is simply – and I repeat from the main question – can the Minister for Transport guarantee that the price of public travel does not rise as a result of the increase in VAT?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e985	I notice that the representative of Myrli says this is very good. It's nice to get praise. Then I can say that as a result of changes in VAT, there is no basis for setting up collective prices. But I can't guarantee that county councils, for other reasons, will want to adjust prices up or down, as a result of their political strategies. However, there will be no justification for changes in VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e994	‘Today, the Nordics fly most of all in Europe, twice as much as the Swedes do. Between 2004 and 2010, Norwegian aviation emissions increased by 1 million tonnes of CO2 annually, corresponding to 420 000 cars. Norway has now committed itself to 40 pst. cut in greenhouse gas emissions of 15 years. In contravention of this, a third runway is now planned on the Gardermoen, the sole intention of which is to increase air traffic even more. Has the Council assessed the climate impact of a new runway at Gardermoen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1004	With regard to the third runway on the Gardermo – which I think will come, the question is just how far out in time – there is something that you will come back to in the work on the National Transport Plan. There will also be climate and environmental assessments. In the national transport plan, we're going to have our own climate strategy, but I'm going to warn against having an approach to infrastructure construction in general, where one looks at the environmental impact of using a car, bus or plane and says that because things have been wrong in the old days, we're not going to think about building up the infrastructure for the next generation. It's some kind of aircraft that's going to be in the air, it's some kind of vehicle that's going to be on the roads, but that's going to have a completely different environmental account, a much more positive environmental account, than you see today. That is why today we have to plan the infrastructure that we believe the next generation will need, and not always fall behind. With regard to emissions from air traffic, I would like to point out that emissions per person, kilometres transported, are falling. But there are more people flying, that's right, because we're becoming more people in this country, but the emissions are going down by unit. I am also very convinced that this development will continue. We know that Avinor, a state-owned company, has contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to the development of biofuels. One now makes it easier to use biofuels, for example: on the Gardermoen. It is a contribution to ensuring that aviation will have a future as a carrier, while at the same time reducing a sheep and finally eliminating CO2 emissions from the industry. So I'm not completely familiar with the numbers that the representative Hansson uses, because he gives the impression that emissions have increased by one million tons in Norway. That's not right. The statistics in which one likes to find the figure are from the Norwegian-owned airline in total, but we know that much of the growth that has come has come through Norwegian constantly establishing more routes abroad, routes that are not even within Norway, and I do not think it is right that we should limit the development of Norwegian aviation because Norwegian companies have succeeded in competing abroad. On the other hand, we see that the development of CO2 emissions from aviation in Norway is relatively flat. So one manages to reduce emissions per take-off, per passenger travelled, and so you have a flat trend. The last thing worth mentioning is that aviation is part of the climate quota agenda. This means that increased emissions from aviation would have to be compensated by a reduction in emissions elsewhere in Norway or abroad, in other industries. So that means that increased air traffic, with increased emissions, will not give rise to total emissions, because then others have to take the cost of reducing where you can do it cheaper. We have to go from a climate perspective where we're minimising emissions overall, not just looking at a single industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1021	Thank you for the reply from the Minister for Transport. At least it is good that the Council of State confirms that there is a link between the increase in aviation and greenhouse gas emissions. As the Minister for Transport probably also agrees, it does not help the whole world to increase efficiency per kilometre as the total volume of emissions also increases. It makes it known both as part of an international development and national development. Can we first get a confirmation from the Council of State that he agrees that aviation in Norway must also take part in the emission cuts that Norway now commits to the next 15 years in consultation with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1030	I can confirm that the government is very busy reducing both CO2 emissions and other environmentally harmful emissions. I am not least concerned with reducing the emissions that affect people every day, especially in cities with poor air. That's why we've spent a lot of time making sure that we get reduced emissions from vehicles that are in urban areas, where it directly affects people. But CO2 is also important. There we've been very supportive of the work that Avinor is doing in using biofuels. I myself had the pleasure of being present at an Avinor event a few years ago, when the first two planes in Norway flew on board biofuels. At the same time, it is important that we do not sit down and end up implementing measures that in one sector would normally cost NOK 5000 per tonne of CO2 savings, while in other sectors ten or twenty times more reductions could be achieved for the same amount of money. We make sure that, as a society, we reduce emissions as much as possible, and not that we are going to commit ourselves to reducing a certain percentage or a certain kiloset. It's about getting the most environment for the money, to put it simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1044	It is worth noting that the Council of Transport states that it is not so essential to set a certain percentage of cuts when the government at the same time boasts very much that you set 40 pst. cut as a binding objective in cooperation with the EU in just 15 years. All agree that the reason why Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have risen in recent years, as opposed to all other countries in Western Europe, is that there has been no political will to set binding emissions targets in each sector. So I repeat the question: will the Minister of Transport confirm that aviation must also take its share of the 40 pst. emissions cuts that the Minister of Transport's own Government has committed itself to the implementation of Norway for the next 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1051	We have to take care of the promises we've made. The promises we've given are 40 pst. reduction for society. In that, as a society, we have to look at where the emissions are the largest, where is what we can actually make a difference, so that we implement as much as possible into a given amount of money. Instead of taking a given amount of money, you would like to get no more than half of it, simply because bad and expensive measures are being taken. That's what's been our criticism of the previous government, which was not related to the promises they had and the means they used. The previous government presented a climate notification that said emissions will decrease. The month after they submitted an oil report saying that the emissions were going to go up. Then there's no connection. That's why there's a very good connection between what we're doing, where the climate minister says that as a society we're going to cut emissions, but where we're giving ourselves some flexibility to show that we're implementing emission measures where we're actually seeing that we're getting results, so that we're achieving the overall goal, and not once again setting overall goals that no one can achieve because you're being so concerned with micro-management instead of macro-management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1056	Questions Nos. 3, 4 and 5 are already answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1063	«The University of Oslo has, according to Class struggle, 29 September d.o.b. in a letter to the Ministry of Culture stating that the university has not required staff to create a user guide for the Norwegian dictionary, despite the fact that UiO has applied for and received a grant of NOK 400000 for this purpose. Project Leader Åse Wetås mein Norsk Dictionary will have much less value for users if it is not developed manual for both the web version and the book. Would the State Council like to put additional pressure on UiO to prepare the guide?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1070	Since the project Norsk Ordbok started in 2002, it has cost the state approx. 130 million. kr. When the project is completed, we will have a scientific reference work on Norwegian dialects and new Norwegian writing languages for which there is no husband. Society must get as much back for these investments as possible. Such an advanced product needs guidance to maximise its use, and, as the representative asked, the University of Oslo has applied for funding to provide a user guide in 2015. The Ministry of Culture looks at the user guide as a last piece that must be in place before the project is completed, and as we know, we have allocated NOK 400000 for this purpose this year. The university has informed in a letter dated 3 September that they do not want to submit such a guide. I don't think that's enough, and I've said that – last in a letter to the university this week. I assume that the University of Oslo will provide a solution before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1081	I want to thank you for the answer, and for being very clear to the Council of State, because it's absolutely crucial that you get that user guide developed, even when you've spent so much money on the measure. Then I've been made aware that the University of Oslo has been offered by others that they can take on the work of developing a user guide, and that the offer is at hand. I want to ask the Council of State about it, in cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge, can make sure that the University of Oslo has started working before the turn of the year, and that one benefits from those who have offered it, if necessary, to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1088	So, as I said in my answer, I have already sent a letter to the university saying that what they have now landed on is not enough, and I ask them to find a solution. I am also aware that there are stakeholders, and it is fully possible for the University of Oslo to find a solution with the relevant language environments, and I am aware that it happens before the end of the year, as the funds are allocated to the current year's budget. As you know, there may be environments such as other universities, but there may also be publishers who may be able to carry out these types of activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1095	It is also important to ensure that you maintain this even in the future, after it has been developed a user guide. It has been known that the University of Oslo will complete its work on the collections, and it has been made known to both the Culture Committee and the Knowledge Committee that, with the support of a comprehensive linguistic environment, it has developed a proposal for a permanent solution for the language collections and the scientific dictionaries that can be adapted to different cost frameworks. My question is what remains of the fact that the Council of State, together with the Minister of Knowledge, can also clarify such a lasting solution, which many people are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1104	I'm in close contact with the Minister of Knowledge. When it comes to the responsibility of the University of Oslo, it's under his constitutional responsibility. The university says that they will then no longer take responsibility for the management and operation of the language collections – it is a slightly different question than developing this guide, on which the question arises – but it is the university that is required to find a solution in this regard, and I believe that they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1111	Question 7 has been moved to before question 24. So we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1120	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Micasen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1123	‘Unvoluntary childless women currently have a lack of assistance in relation to infertility compared to men. An increasing number of women who, for different reasons, cannot have children therefore choose to travel abroad for help in egg donation and assisted fertilisation. We believe that the time is ripe for such an offer in Norway. Will the Council of State be a driving force in the government to open the way for women also to be assisted by infertility, in order to ensure equal rights for men and women?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1130	As you know, the government will evaluate the Biotechnology Act. The Ministry commissioned both the Biotechnology Council and the Health Directorate in the spring of 2014. The mission of the Biotechnology Council was mainly to create debate, discuss the ethical aspects of the Biotechnology Act and summarise this debate. The directorate's mission was to provide professional updates in the field. The Biotechnology Council and the Directorate delivered their reports to the Department in August, and egg donation is one of several topics under review. In the Biotechnology Council, 9 out of 15 members want the law to allow egg donation. The majority have different reasons for their position and set different conditions for allowing egg donation. The position of a majority is that egg donation is allowed on condition that the donated eggs are excess eggs from infertility treatment completed and that the donated eggs are fertilised with the partner’s semen. A minority of 6 out of 15 members believe that the prohibition of egg donation should continue. The arguments for and against egg donation are detailed in the Biotechnology Council report. Biotechnology offers many opportunities for human benefit. This may include, inter alia: be the development of new knowledge through research into the causes and possibilities of disease treatment. Other examples are better and more specific diagnosis and treatment of patients and the manufacture of medicinal products. The field of biotechnology has been undergoing medical and technical developments since the adoption of today's law and is continuing to develop. There are increasing opportunities for the use of genetic information. In the rest of the world, there are also offers in this area that are not permitted under Norwegian law. The use of the technology may in some areas also have an impact on those other than those who have agreed to use. Regulation of the use of biotechnology shall also contribute to a society where there is room for all. I believe it is important that the Storting should consider how this field should be regulated in the future, in relation to both our ethical standards and political objectives. The government is now working on a communication to the Stortinget summarising the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, with a view to its presentation in the autumn of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1143	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Minister of Health will answer an important question for the Storting, although my concern today was really to get the Minister of Equal Opportunities' view on a question that has many dimensions – I fully agree with the Council of State in – ethical, technological, but also political. For the Labour Party, one of the important dimensions here is equality between women and men, that men today get help when there is something that doesn't work to make children into the world, and that women should have the same right to help. That's why it would have been exciting to hear what the Minister for Gender said about it, but we'll get back to that on another occasion. I would nevertheless challenge the Minister of Health to say something more about how he perceives that the real majority of the Storting can be expressed when this is to be raised to open debate, and the government will present its message to the Stortinget. Should the government encourage the majority of people to make an independent assessment of this, or should you meet in the back first?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1148	The Government intends to submit the notification to Stortinget. What the government has in front of it, and in what way we also involve our partners in it, is something the four parties have to discuss and agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1153	I understand that I am not going anywhere with just such a kind of question a year before the matter might come to Stortinget. My point of addressing this in a context where several questions are asked about the government's equality policy is about what is widely acknowledged by the Council of State in its own response, that in many areas of biotechnology, technological development, international development and market-based services have far-reachingly achieved policy. The policy is simply not involved, and what usually happens then is that when someone wants something intense – often people who want to become parents do – and especially in a field where you have an offer for women who are infertile for different reasons, these offers will be used in all comparable countries. Does the Council agree that it is an argument that some countries with which Norway can compare offer this to Norwegian women?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1158	Firstly, I very much agree with the description of the representative Micasen that this area has evolved for a very long time without a new evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. There is something that I also think was wrong that the previous government did not, even though the Storting had emphatically informed that this should happen at shorter intervals than what has happened. So I agree that that's an argument, but it's not an argument that I think can be emphasized very heavily, because if one follows that reasoning, a just as well can cancel having a national regulation in this area. In the field of biotechnology, one must have an input into the question of being willing to have regulation in Norway other than in other countries. There will always be other countries offering what will not be lawful in Norway, and I do not think it is appropriate in this area to have major criminal prosecutions against people leaving the country for different types of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1165	Before we go to question 9, the President will now go to question 15, which is from the representative Sonja Mangt to the Minister of Health and Care, and will therefore be answered now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1172	«On 3 November we could read in the media that the Danish government will promote a bill to prevent Danish doctors from practicing in other Nordic countries when they are deprived of the authorisation in one of the countries. Will the Council of State take the initiative in implementing a similar legal provision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1179	I am aware that the Danish Minister of Health will establish a scheme whereby Danish doctors who lose their authorisation abroad will also lose their Danish authorisation. I agree with my Danish colleague that strict supervision of health professionals is necessary. We need to put in place measures to prevent healthcare professionals who are unfit for the profession from continuing to treat patients by crossing borders. This is important in order to ensure good patient safety and quality of service. The EU Commission is implementing a single European alert mechanism. This shall allow for mutual warning between countries when health professionals lose or receive limited authorisation. This is an important work that Norway has supported. The alert mechanism shall be put in place in 2016. The Danish authorities will propose that the authorisation be automatically withdrawn from the doctor when you receive a warning from another country. The health personnel must then seek from the Danish authorities if they believe that the reaction has been given on a false basis. The Norwegian legislation does not open such an automatic procedure. The Nordic countries have different legislation on health professionals, and the thresholds for different responses vary. The same applies also within the EU/EEA area. Withdrawal of Norwegian authorisation is regulated by the Health Care Professional Act. If health surveillance receives alerts from other national authorities that health professionals have lost or been restricted by the authorisation, they will make a concrete assessment of whether the actions underlying the reaction in other countries could also lead to reactions under the Norwegian rules. If this is the case, supervision will consider whether, for example: shall revoke the authorisation. State health surveillance is allowed to suspend the authorisation while the matter is being dealt with, if there is reason to believe that the conditions for revoking the authorisation are present and the healthcare professional is considered to be a risk to patient safety. The Norwegian legislation is therefore sufficient, in my opinion, to meet this need and will in many ways meet the same need as the amendment to the Danish legislation would entail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1196	I don't think the Council of State and I agree, because we know the story of health professionals who have comments or lack of authorization, who travel around the Nordic region and have their profession there. In 2010, the Nordic Council proposed the establishment of a register to facilitate the disclosure and exchange of information when they were to be recruited. It has not been implemented for various reasons, perhaps especially because it is different legislation. The IMI system is assumed to be responsible for issuing authorisations but not endorsements. But in what other way does the Council of State think we can ensure that patients in the Nordic region have good patient safety, since he does not want to go into this legal provision, as Denmark does?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1201	In the North, we have a system to notify each other. This means that if a Norwegian doctor with a Norwegian authorisation loses his authorisation in another Nordic country, the Health Authority will be notified. The Danish model proposed is also dependent on alerting the country that takes the person from the authorisation. That's the same thing. In Norway, the supervision will then specifically assess the doctor’s authorisation in such cases. If someone believes that what has happened in the other country is so serious that the doctor should not practise in Norway, they have the opportunity to immediately withdraw the authorisation while the matter is being dealt with under the Norwegian legislation. In a situation where one is more in doubt, a doctor may continue, but will then be able to assess whether to withdraw the authorisation. From this point of view, I believe that in practice there will be no significant difference between the Norwegian and Danish systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1206	It is a fact that the warning system in the Nordic region is not working. In the past month, Danish TV has clearly shown that the system we have is not working. I again challenge the Council of State: what difficulties do the Council of State see in introducing a system where comments, lapses of authorisation or serious comments where there is a risk to patient safety can also be communicated in the Nordic region? We're talking about a common labour market. Can we expect the Council of State to discuss this further with its Nordic colleagues in order to find a better way of doing this? Today, the warning system is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1211	I agree that today's warning system has weaknesses because it is not being followed up in a good enough way. That's something we Nordic ministers are discussing, because we're totally dependent on one alerting each other. So I would like to stress, as I always do in this kind of case, that we in the health care department have to go away from an employer's opinion that they have a person's authorisation, and he is fit for the job. We must never get into a situation where you put similarities between trying to cut off for authorization or thinking about being on a list, and that the person is qualified for the job. The employer must never feel that they have been deprived of the responsibility to check the person’s references. In very many of these cases, a single phone call to the previous employer could clarify serious circumstances that would prevent an employer from hiring the person. I still believe that there is a culture in the health care system where too much leans on authorization and lists instead of taking on a self-responsive responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1218	So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1226	‘I refer to the government’s gender equality message as presenting its government’s weaknesses in the work environment law as being good for equality. This contrasts sharply with the Council of State's scepticism towards the same changes in the law in the hearings of the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. What new knowledge is now in the Council of State, which means that these objections are no longer relevant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1233	Thanks to the representative Holen Bjørdal for the question. It is the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs who has the constitutional responsibility for the changes in the Labour Environment Act, but according to the study guide, gender issues must always be assessed when new policies are developed. In our consultation response, the Ministry called for gender impact to be highlighted by possible changes to the Working Environment Act. The Minister of Labour and I are pleased that the changes related to working time open up more opportunities for workers and employers to find solutions locally. The new working time rules provide greater flexibility and make it easier to put in place good flexitime contracts. This will provide opportunities to adapt working hours to the lives of both women and men. With the new changes, it has become easier to get arrangements for longer shifts some weekends. For women who work the tour, this can open up for more weekends. The law also gives workers and employers greater flexibility to find local solutions to increase small job breaks and promote full-time standards. This will mostly benefit women, as we are aware that there are women working most part-time. The government also has a goal of opening up the labour market to more people, and we have therefore opened up temporary employment for up to 12 months. This could facilitate the entry into the labour market of those groups that have difficulty getting into the labour market today. This applies, inter alia, to: newly educated, newly arrived immigrants and persons with disabilities. Today, there are also more women than men who have reduced working capacity and receive health-related benefits. With the large flow of refugees we are now looking at Norway, one can also imagine that several ways into working life are exactly what we need to facilitate integration into the labour market. I can assure the representative Holen Bjørdal that permanent employment is still the rule in Norwegian working life. The government has no plans to change this. At the same time, temporary employment may open the way to the labour market for people outside. I hope that the opposition also thinks is a positive effect. The changes in the Working Environment Act have been effective for well over four months. It is therefore difficult to draw clear conclusions about the impact that the law has had or will have on the future. The government is committed to monitoring the development of different forms of social relations. A thorough evaluation shall therefore be carried out of whether the changes in temporary employment are effective after the intention has been given. That is, several of those who are out of work are going to have a chance to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1256	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Here it is clear that the government continued what has subsequently been a long and good tradition in pushing groups ahead with the question of temporary additions. First it was youth, then it was disability, and now it's the women who should push ahead on this question. Women are over-represented among temporary workers, and temporary workers are very widespread in women-dominated sectors, education, health and social services, overnight stays, catering activities, and if we add to the trade in goods, most of these sectors will be among those which will be most strongly affected by the weakening of labour law. A particular challenge for temporary settings is the situation of those who are or become pregnant during or between two temporary engagements, both when we think about retirement and their parents' rights to pay leave. With this as a hindrance, does the Council of State think that the government has largely taken over the equality barriers that women face in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1265	I believe that the gender equality message provided by the government facilitates more full-time work by following the changes in the work environment law and in particular the working time regulations. Like the representative, I also believe that we have a challenge because there are too many women working part-time involuntarily, and therefore it is important for the government to cooperate with both the working life and the municipalities on how to get back the full-time standard. There are many good examples in municipalities of how to get a full-time culture into place. The changes in the Working Environment Act that have now been made believe that the government is clearly a way forward for more groups, among others. women, immigrants and those with physical disabilities may be eligible for work experience. The workline and the ability to support themselves is an important concept of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1270	What's coming from the state council now is completely different to what its ministry said when the proposal for the work environment law was sent to the audience. Here the Ministry pointed out in its response that the changes in working time opportunities open up to longer periods of work and a less conservative working day for the employee, which can help to weaken — not strengthen — women's association with the labour market and men's care role at home. In that case, this would be contrary to the agreed objectives of equality policy that we can claim to be a cross-political agreement. Is the Council of States no longer in favour of these objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1275	Let me make it clear that all governments have an investigation instruction, and in the instructions for which I am responsible, it is very clear that in all the formulations of new policies the gender impact should be assessed – just as the Minister of Finance always has to ask that everyone should look at the financial assumptions when developing new issues. I believe that the hearing response given by the Ministry to work on the Working Environment Act was open. It pointed to some challenges, but I am very pleased that the Minister of Labour and I fully agree that the opening that has taken place in the Working Time Regulations and in the Working Environment Act is helping to strengthen both women, immigrants and people who have challenges to get into working life. It strengthens their position. As I was in the beginning, having your own income in order to be able to support yourself important in the context of gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1284	‘In the gender equality message there is a whole chapter on more women in business, but there is very little about the concrete contribution the Minister for Gender Equality will make to equal opportunities for women and men to take up leadership positions and positions in business. The message states that a gender balance measurement program is to be implemented to identify the proportion of women in different sectors, and that a gender balance measurement instrument is to be established in order to be able to follow developments. Will there be more women's leaders of it?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1291	Thank you to the representative Heggo for the question. Norway is a major promoter of gender equality in many areas. At the same time, we know that in some fields there are still challenges. Female top executives in business are one of them. The research project The Effects of Gender Quotation in Norwegian Business was launched in spring 2015. In the last ten years, the proportion of women in the boards of directors subject to the regulation has increased from about zero to about 40 pst. In comparison, the proportion of women in the board of directors of limited liability companies has remained stable at a lower level, of about 10 %. 17 pst. The expected side-effect of this, that this would affect the proportion of women in top management in business, has not changed. The government wants to help more women become top executives in business, so we have asked CORE to develop a measuring instrument, which will be launched next year. With this measuring instrument, we can map the gender balance in top management. We can follow company recruitment practices and women and men's career paths in business over time. It will also be possible to compare trends with other countries. I believe that such an instrument will raise awareness, and it will make companies that succeed in recruiting women for top management. It will also give those who have a way to go, something to go after. The Government has also initiated an investigation programme to examine the difference in the proportion of women in management between different sectors and the reason for this. With the proposed investigation programme, we want to gain more knowledge of these differences, which we believe is an important prerequisite for good policy development. So the state cannot create equality alone. By having instruments that raise awareness of equality, I have faith that business is taking its share of the responsibility for creating equality. It is positive that the NHO has launched a research project to find the answer to why some companies succeed in recruiting female leaders, while others do not. We see today that progress in work on gender equality in Norwegian working life is different in the public sector, academia and private business. In particular, private business is far behind, where only 13 pst. of the top ladders are women. This is much lower than in other parts of society, as in public and policy, where the proportion of women at the top is close to 40 pst. By comparing several sectors, we will, for example: be able to see the instruments that can be used to promote the public sector and which are not used in the private sector. The gender-based labour market has adverse effects because, among other things: affects the width of the recruitment basis and may create problems for matching between labour supply and labour demand. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has launched the Gender Differences Project in Occupational and Sectoral Mobility in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1312	Those were good words, Minister, but I'm busy that word turns into action, and I couldn't bring with me a single concrete action. I know there's 2 million. kr to girls and technology in the gender equality message, and I was also able to find some strengthening of crisis centres and the fight against coerciveness, but what we have seen from this government is to put equality in reverse. I can show you the previous questioner, who was involved in this with the temporary addition, the increase in cash support, the increase in the maximum price of kindergartens and the reduction in the birth rate. The actions the government has taken are going backwards into the future. I ask again: what concrete measures does the Minister have in the equality message saying that he wants to promote more women, for example: in control?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1319	We're in 2015. We still have major gender equality challenges that, with decades of gender equality policy, we have not managed to solve – not the previous government either. The government has chosen to raise five specific issues that we believe are major challenges to this. One of the issues is entrepreneurship and women in business. That work starts early. It actually starts in education and in work, by the fact that both girls and boys today have the right to be what they want, and to take the education they want, but they haven't always had the opportunity. With several of the examples in this message, the government has taken action. We have also done so in the ownership communication, in the Founding Plan, which has a comprehensive women's perspective, in terms of girls and technology, and in the other proposals that lie here, among others. a research project for the Agder counties. Supporting the good examples that industry is contributing to furthering gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1326	I could still not get concrete action behind the good words of the government. I also noticed that in the LO-Current, a reading under the heading ‘Horne’s equality policy is being slaughtered’ said the Minister for Gender Equality that HPV vaccines should be included in the gender equality initiative. It's possible there's a misunderstanding, I don't know anything about that. But if that's true, how can HPV vaccines for young girls up to 26 years lead to an increase in equality? If there's a misunderstanding, is the reversal the government has done with the spring ratio, the increase in kindergarten prices and the increase in cash support also a misunderstanding? All of this leads to equality in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1331	It is remarkable that whenever the opposition is going to discuss equality, they bring forward a spring quota and cash support. We know that we have one of the best arrangements for parental leave in this country. Equality is about more than four weeks of spring and cash support. Equality is about the challenges that girls and boys, women and men face every day in the field of violence, health, education and the field of work. The fact that this message has a continuous human and immigrant perspective is very important in the situation we are facing. I have also not registered that the previous government's equality report had so many good actions in this area. More bureaucracy and new structures were involved – structures on which this government is based. On health issues, there is a difference between how to treat women’s diseases and men’s diseases. Women's diseases are being studied less than in men's diseases. This government has chosen to raise this equality message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1353	This question falls due to illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1360	‘The government’s thin equality message has been slaughtered for lack of action by the employer’s side, the employee’s side, gender equality researchers, the media and all political parties with the exception of the Right and the Progress Party itself. It has no action to bring equality in Norway forward, is the unison criticism. At the same time, the government is pursuing a policy that has guided equality in reverses for two years. What results does the State Council expect for gender equality to provide for gender equality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1367	We've been criticized that it's too thin, that there's too little room. We have had a press conference, so there is nothing surprising to me, but I still want to remind the representative of Trettebergstuen that Hege Skeie was equally critical of the previous government's equality message and thought it was quite tame and quite weak, and that there was a lack of willingness to establish power behind the equality policy. Norway has come a long way in gender equality. But despite decades of commitment to gender equality policy, we still have challenges. Women and men have equal rights today, but we have to make sure that they also experience equal opportunities. The Equal Opportunities Communication therefore provides the basis for long-term and targeted work in five areas where there are still clear challenges to equality: violence and abuse, growth and education, working life, health, business and entrepreneurship. In addition, the gender equality message has a continuous human and immigrant perspective, and I note that there is no disagreement that there are challenges in the five key societal areas that the government has chosen to make. In addition to the gender equality communication, the government has sent out proposals for new equality and discrimination laws at the hearing, and we are now investigating the driving and enforcement apparatus. The government has provided a big message on gender equality policy, not a budget proposal. However, I am glad that there are 10 million in it. kr to new investment proposals for 2016. Some of the measures are already under way, and others will be put into action in the coming years. Here there are several good measures in the five priority areas, and of course they must be followed up in the coming years. Equality messages are about both women and men, including those with a minority background. Having the opportunity to take education and support themselves, freedom from violence and unwanted social control are fundamental to equality. Equality cannot be adopted by the public alone, but must also be created around the workplace, where people live, and in cooperation with the voluntary sector. Women and men with a migrant background are examples of important groups we need to reach in the further work on gender equality in Norway in the years to come. In the government's gender equality message, we have chosen to work specifically with five areas where we believe there are challenges. By intensifying work in the areas in which we have gender equality challenges today, I believe that we are on the right track to give equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys. I hope the opposition in general and the Tritebergstuen in particular can agree with the government that these are five important areas that need to be raised, from an equality perspective. I look forward to the debate on the gender equality report on a six-month period here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1386	Equality definitely doesn't come of itself. Equal opportunities also do not come from the fact that government councils are confined to raising important areas, pointing to challenges or raising women. Clearly, one must be Minister for Gender Equality from the Progress Party in order to believe that this Communication will have an impact on gender equality developments in Norway. No one else thinks it does. It has an outline of good intentions, the Council of State points in five important areas, and I share the analysis related to the five important areas, but I cannot understand why the government does not at the same time introduce measures that will do anything about it. Can the Council of State point to one concrete measure in this Communication that will do something about the structures, which will lead to increased gender equality, i.e. equal opportunities for women and men?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1393	That's exactly what's the difference between this government and the red-green. We have a policy in the field of gender equality that supports and strengthens initiatives that we know work. We have no faith in any more structures, laws or quotas that end up with coercion, that this is what goes on with equality policy. That's why I'm glad that we're in and we're raising the five areas where there are gender issues today, and that we're so clear and clearly also showing which areas this government wants to invest in. So this equality message is not a budget proposition. It is a big message, which must be followed up in the ordinary budgets, but there are therefore 10 million fresh resources in concrete actions in the field of violence, industry and knowledge that will help and strengthen equality in the future. But we're not done with the equality message. This is a work carried out in all the departments responsible for the areas facing challenges today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1400	For me, it is a wonder that in the course of the two years of work on the communication, none of these departments, nor the Minister for Gender Equality, have managed to arrive at a single concrete measure that will increase equality in Norway. The message does not contain any such measures. On the other hand, we have seen that the government has conducted its real equality policy every day for two years. It consists of cuts in paperpaper, increased cash support, more expensive kindergartens, new work environment law, reservation rights – cut into what works and leads to increased equality. In this state budget, the Minister for Gender Equality and the Government in the budgets of the Equality Ombudsman, the equality NGOs and the equality centres, those who every day are out there doing gender equality work, which leads to the anti-discrimination fight where people live where they work. What tasks in the field of anti-discrimination and equal opportunities drivers do the Council of State consider that the Ombudsman and the equality centres should focus less on in the coming years as a result of budget cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1407	This government is based on the structures we have today, but equality alone is not built on new structures, and we cannot go further on equality alone with what the state is going to adopt by law and structure. That is why I am very pleased that we have now managed to focus on the areas that we believe are important. It is in the field of violence, in the field of education, in the field of work and in the field of industry, and therefore I am very pleased that there are concrete measures there. Then the representative of the Trettebergstuen states that the Equality Ombudsman has received a cut in next year's budget. Yes, policy is about priority, and the gender equality Ombudsman now has a budget of approx. Fifty-three million. NOK, and they have over 60 employees that I believe will be able to do a good equality work. In addition, we have been able to strengthen the gender equality topic, so that we get a good enforcement apparatus for the matters that need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1418	«The Swedish Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting have recently concluded an agreement to strengthen the arrangement of equality work against boys, men and masculinity issues in municipalities, county councils and regions. [[SKL]] Will the government take a similar initiative towards the KS?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1425	I thank the representative for the question, but the government has no concrete plans to conclude an agreement with KS similar to the one recently signed in Sweden. However, I would like to stress that through tripartite cooperation we have a good dialogue with both the employee and employer sides, including the KS. This raises and discusses gender issues related to employment on a regular basis. The social partners have also been regularly consulted in the work on gender equality, a communication that also has a global human perspective. I want to highlight Nordic cooperation in the field of gender equality. My Nordic colleagues and I, under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers for Gender Equality, have started the test project Men and Gender Equality in the Nordic region. This project aims to identify learning examples and make recommendations to Nordic equality ministers on how we can continue to work with the human dimension of gender equality policy. Work is already in progress and will result in a report scheduled for spring 2016. I can assure the representative that it is also important for this government to work for equal rights and opportunities for women and men, girls and boys. Gender equality is no longer a question of women — it is a shared responsibility for both women and men. Gender equality should therefore apply to both women and men. In the gender mainstreaming message promoted by the government, Gender equality in practice – Equal opportunities for women and men, this is precisely underlined. Proposals for new common equality and discrimination laws have also been discussed with the social partners. The legislative proposal has recently been consulted and is a modern law that takes on the fact that men too face gender issues in today's society. It is an objective that men and women should be equivalent caregivers. When men take more responsibility for family care than before, this can lead to discrimination against men to whom women have traditionally been exposed. In the legislative proposal, which is now being consulted, we propose that the law should make it clear that both women and men are protected from discrimination on grounds of care. Today's objective in the Equality Act means that positive special treatment for men is permitted only in the case of posts where the main task is to care for or educate young children. It limits equality. The fact that we can now encourage men to apply for jobs within, for example: The health and care sector is an important measure for gender equality as well. We will give increased access to positive special treatment for men. It will provide more instruments to motivate more people to break traditional gender roles in education and training choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1444	Thank you for the answer, even though it was characterized by many self-esteem and things that really all agree on. What I want to join in what the Council of State said, however, is that fortunately we have come to the conclusion that the question of equality is not just about women, but that men are increasingly both involved in gender equality debates and, not least, want to participate in the growth of their own children and have more time with their children. What made me think the Swedish initiative was extra happy was that it also underlines that equality is not only a responsibility for women and men, but also a Community responsibility. The municipalities and the counties are a large employer, and the sex-shared labour market is a signal that much remains in gender equality work. Much can also be done by encouraging non-traditional choices of employment and education. The question is: can the Council of State not be willing to take an initiative towards KS through the consultation mechanism of the government in order to raise this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1455	The gender equality field has been raised in the meetings that we regularly have with the social partners. There is nothing wrong with us also discussing gender equality issues when we meet with KS, but to go into the project that they have in Sweden, I have no concrete plans about. I am pleased that the representative is very clear that when we talk about equality, it is important to have men in that debate. If we are to move on to the gender equality fields where we know we have challenges, men must also engage in that debate. Here I believe that in the future, the representative Grande is going to be an important ally to include men in gender equality work. The government has been hearing a case of equal parenthood, which I hope the representative of Grande will also be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1464	Yes, I can promise the Council of State that the commitment will continue in this field. I think there is reason to stress that it is important to take a stronger initiative to contribute to the participation of more men. Firstly, I believe that men's involvement in the care arena as regards the sex-shared labour market we see in care professionals, and not least in caring for their own children, is a silent revolution, but also an opportunity for the community to ensure that we get solved, among other things. the recruitment challenges that we see in the care sector. It is also the case that many men experience major shortcomings in gender equality. They are often subjected to violence, to suicide, they live shorter than women, there are more men in prison than women, and they lack time with children after a break in life. Therefore, I would like the government to also make a commitment, because I think there are many municipalities and counties out there that can make a great effort. I will challenge Horne for the last time whether she can take a clearer grip on this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1471	As I said in my previous reply, to another representative, the state cannot control equality alone – it takes place around the kitchen table, it takes place at the workplace, and it takes place outside the organization. Therefore, it is important that we raise this issue, and that we also take seriously the challenges that men face in the field of equality. I believe that this government has done much more than the previous government did, by the fact that the gender equality message we have now promoted has a global human perspective, while the new equality and discrimination law is now being consulted. We have also said in the Communication that we will increase the competence for gender equality in kindergartens. It's important that we start early. We want to increase the recruitment of men as kindergarten teachers, so that children have good role models of both sexes, and we also want to strengthen the knowledge base on gender differences in learning and the implementation of educational choices. It's important to start early.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1482	This question, from Martin Henriksen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1485	‘In 2014, the government cut the spring quota from 14 to 10 weeks. The Progress Party and the Right have argued that the federal quota restricts freedom of choice, but the State Council Solvency Horne has nevertheless stated that she hopes men take more leave. If fathers are to spend more time with their children, the government should provide for other schemes that contribute to this. Does the Council of State consider that there is value in fathers taking a greater share of care for children, and in that case what means will the government use to ensure a equal distribution of parental leave?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1492	I would like to thank Mr Huitfeldt for his question. It gives me a unique opportunity to stress that both parents are important caregivers in children's lives, and that the government is very concerned about promoting equal parenthood. Norway has one of the world’s best parental care schemes, which are important for both mother and father to combine professional activities with care for young children. Nevertheless, we know that the parental leave is primarily for the children. It is of great value to the children that both mother and father participate in the care of the children, and the government believes it is important to design the scheme so that it gives each family the freedom to choose which solution is best suited to their everyday lives. Not all families are equal, and the most important of all is the care of the children. The Government, together with the Cooperation Parties, has adopted an extension of the common share by eight weeks. Parents now have eight weeks more than before for which they can determine the distribution according to the needs of their own family. I stress that the father's quota is in place, still 10 weeks are reserved for father and 10 weeks are reserved for mother. But with today's system, in other words, father, like mother, is free to take out more weeks than the quota says. I have registered that someone believes that increased freedom of choice for parents means reducing equality. I totally disagree with that: the mother's quota and the father's quota have been reduced by four weeks each, but it's added to the common share, which the parents themselves can choose how to dispose of it. Parents today have a unique opportunity to combine parenting and working life. I have recorded that the opposition has asked me a number of questions with different angles about precisely these weeks of parental leave, as if equality policy is and falls on this. Neither I nor the majority of the Storing have changed their mind on this. The government's family policy is based on freedom of choice and flexibility, and on the fact that each family itself is closest to assessing which different solutions are best suited to them. This also applies to parental leave. The government is very concerned about promoting equal parenthood and therefore wishes to facilitate the possibility for both parents to be equivalent caregivers, both during life and when life is dissolved. We have therefore had proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act to promote equal parenthood. I also hope that representatives of the opposition will support proposals for more equal parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1509	The large, large majority of fathers and men want to take their share of maternity leave, and many want to take a larger share. However, in reality — and there are also more surveys — men may be even more discriminated against in the workplace than women when they are at home with children, because working life puts pressure on you, and it is in a way a symptom that you are not dedicated enough to work. I expect that Horne has also met several men who have not met with understanding from their employer when they wanted to take the father's quota and the paper commission they themselves want. Does the council disregard the fact that many men may encounter a lack of understanding with their employer when they want to take cardboard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1516	There is nothing in the law that implies that neither men nor women should have to deal with their employers and say that they want to take parental leave. So today we have a parental leave where it's 10 weeks to father and 10 weeks to mother, and where parents can choose to take the increased share of community weeks as it suits each family. So I'm surprised that the opposition goes all the way out and says that fathers are going to take fewer weeks. Why not build up the fathers and encourage them to take more than the ten weeks? They have the full opportunity to take 12 weeks, 14 weeks and 18 weeks if they want to, and there is nothing in the legislation that prevents the individual from doing so to the employer. But I see clearly that it is important that the social partners put this on the agenda, and actually make sure that they do not have discrimination against parents in terms of the parental pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1523	The council says that there is nothing in the law that prevents fathers from taking longer leave. That's right. Then she goes on to say that there is nothing in the law that prevents there from being an equal distribution between women and men. That's also quite right. But that's not what I asked. What I asked was whether the Council of State disregards the fact that some fathers can experience pressure from their employer not to take their leave. All studies show that fathers today want to take it, but many experience that the pressure is there. Then you can say that the law is neutral, but as a politician you have to think politically: how can I get tools to ensure that fathers get the rights that fathers want to be more at home with their kids? Is it true that there are no fathers who are discriminated against by their employer when they want to take out cardboard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1528	I fully agree with the representative. There are fathers who feel that they are being countered at work, and there are women who are being discriminated against against pregnancy. It's there today. But I don't believe that increasing to more allowances is what's going to happen. Then we have to have an active attitude, we have to have an active work against each employer, because in the law today there is a possibility that both fathers and mothers can take more than their quota. But we must not forget that the parental pension scheme exists for the children. What has been important for this government is that families should be able to have an freedom of choice, a flexibility, when the children are young, in order to be able to choose who is going to be at home with the children at that time. There have been important values over which this government and the majority of the Grand Duchy have suspended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1535	Question 15 has been answered earlier. We're going to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1544	‘4. On November 9, I was with the Joint Association, Section 9, and looked at the construction work of a new police station in Arendal. I witnessed that there was work on the roof of the building without any kind of fuse around and with several meters down to the ground. The matter has been raised with State Building, the Labour Inspectorate and the police without this being taken seriously, and the first evidence of a lack of security is from March 24th this year. How can the Council of State ensure that the Labour Inspectorate and state-owned companies take seriously the government’s strategy against labour crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1551	Let me first thank you for the question and for what the representative addresses. Too many people today die at work – on average, 12 people die only in the construction industry every year. 100 get permanent but damage, and 8 000 have damage-related absences. There is a situation that cannot continue. That is why I and the government have signed a HMS charter together with the construction industry to get a harmless construction industry where a zero vision is important – and well anchored. Then we carry out more supervision than ever before, precisely to ensure safety at work, to ensure that we have good standards to prevent damage and accidents from happening. So specifically to the question that the representative de Ruiter addresses. I have been in contact with the Labour Inspectorate. They state that this site has been supervised earlier this year. It was imposed, which is now closed. The Labour Inspectorate cannot see having received written tips on this site either in terms of height work or other aspects, but in the light of the observations and what the representative de Ruiter refers to in the questionnaire, I have asked the Labour Inspectorate to carry out a new inspection and a new check on this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1558	I am very pleased that the Council of State takes this seriously, and also takes this important single matter seriously from my district. As the Council of State says, too many die, too many are injured in dangerous workplaces. Public opinion should certainly lead by example, and I am sure we agree on that. But I react a little to the fact that it is said here that the Labour Inspectorate has followed up this matter. My information suggests that the Labour Inspectorate has followed up this matter very poorly locally, and that the Labour Inspectorate has not taken this seriously enough. I have reports – from today on – that the security measures have not been implemented satisfactorily, even now that the media have seized the case, after the Labour Inspectorate and State Building have said that they should do a better job. So my challenge to the council is to go one more round, make sure that it is properly secured, among other things. on the roof of this building. Because I am far from sure – insofar as my information is correct, it is actually not done now either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1567	As I said in my previous answer, the Labour Inspectorate has been supervising this construction site. You have not received any written tips on the relationship that the query is dealing with right now. And as I say, I have already asked the Labour Inspectorate to follow up this matter, in the light of the information that emerges, among other things. Here in the Question Time, and which the representative de Ruiter brings to the square. I have been assured that the Labour Inspectorate will follow up this case, and there is no doubt that the HMS Code will apply fully, Norwegian construction sites will be secured according to the requirements and rules that exist. That's something that we're also very concerned about. That is why we signed this HMS Charter, together with the construction industry itself, to ensure high safety and to ensure the working conditions of workers in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1574	There is no reason to doubt the intentions of the Council of State here, and that the Council of State will follow this up. I believe, however, that the Council of State should take an extra round with the Labour Inspectorate and check the accuracy of the fact that one has found no deviation. This has been well known, this has been pointed out countless times since March 24th this year. The Labour Inspectorate has dismissed the criticism. Neither the Labour Inspectorate, the State Building, the main contractor or the police have wanted to address this matter. Suddenly, there was a lot of speed in the matter when it was notified that it was going up in the Storting Question Time, and it was media-focused on it. So I would ask that someone take a round, a check on what the Labour Inspectorate has actually done in this case. I do not feel sure that someone has taken the signals seriously. I also do not feel confident that the trade union movement will be involved in these matters in a good enough way when they point out defects and deficiencies. One has rather used a methodology where one has rejected criticism and even criticised the fact that unworthy employment has been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1581	I assume that the Labour Inspectorate will follow the instructions they have been given. I have no reason to doubt that the Labour Inspectorate will follow it up. And so, as the representative de Ruiter says – if we are going to take an extra round: we have just recently taken a round with the Labour Inspectorate, got insurance right in front of this question that you will follow up the case. I can always – if it’s more satisfactory for the Ruiters – go back to the office and contact the Labour Inspectorate just after I’ve been to Stortinget, but I don’t know if they’ve pulled so much on the neighborhood I’ve been here to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1592	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In the consultation note issued by the Police Directorate on the election of police officers in the new police districts, the different criteria are assessed according to different percentages. My question is whether the Council of State believes it is right for the Directorate of Police to focus on localisation policy at 10 p.m., the lowest assessment, when this clearly violates the first two objectives of the guidelines politically?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1601	Let me first thank the representative for the question. The question says that a consultation note has been sent on the election of the police chief. I guess it's the choice of administration that the representative refers to, and I'll deal with it in my answer. When the Stortinget dealt with the reform of the police, the majority agreed that the Police Directorate should investigate and decide – and decide – administrative locations in the new police districts. At the same time, the Directorate was required to deal with the guidelines on State employment. Guidelines on the location of state jobs and on the production of state services set out the objectives of government localisation policy and procedures and assessment requirements in relation to the location of state jobs. The questioner refers to the purpose of the localisation policy in his question. The issue of the location of administrations in the new police districts is about state localisation policy, but it is also about the location of police authorities in a way that ensures the acquisition of competence, limiting the costs associated with the establishment of new operational centres and facilitating good communication flows in the police district. This will provide the best possible framework conditions for the new police districts to provide the best possible police services to the population. I believe it is important that the most professional reasons for police services be given a heavy impact in these assessments. It is good police services to be provided in the new police districts. The guidelines for the location of state workplaces state that the conditions for location, the purpose of location policy and cost-effectiveness and efficient response should be used as a basis for the selection and assessment of alternative locations for location. The guidelines say that the different considerations should be weighed against each other, but the different considerations should not be weighted. That's why I think it's not right to claim that the Police Directorate is not following these guidelines. The Directorate has created an operationalisation of the requirements, providing transparency and transparency around the balances that have been made. The Directorate of Police has been given authority to investigate and decide the administrative location, and I trust that the Directorate of Police will carry it out in a thorough and good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1620	I thank you for your answer. I believe it is important that the Council of State takes responsibility for the basis of the consultation document. At least I feel that there is a gap between the government's own purpose around the state workplaces and the emphasis on localisation policy in this document that has been sent out to the hearing. As it now appears, it may almost seem that the Council of State has abdicated because you don't want to have a lead on it, but say that it's stressed well enough as it is in the document, when there's such a big difference in the emphasis of, among other things. recruitment, which has 20 pst., and localisation policy, which has 10 pst., which is the lowest weighting here. So once again, I wonder whether the Council of State stands for what is in the document, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1627	The question from the representative was a little strange. She herself, in Stortinget, has voted in favour of this approach: the Directorate of Police will carry out the professional assessment of the location of the main seats. I think it is very good that the Police Directorate has, in a thorough and proper way, put the emphasis on the issues that will be highlighted in the hearing that are now over and where the consultation period has not yet expired. It is still possible to send recordings until 17 November. It doesn't mean in any way that I've abdicated, that means that the Police Directorate is going to do the job that the Police Directorate is responsible for. This is something I think Else-May Botten and the Council of States will agree on is important that we do, and that we don't have a Council of States interfering in where it's obvious that the Directorate has been given an added responsibility. I still think it is wrong to claim that the guidelines are not met. I believe the Police Directorate does so, according to what has been the starting point of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1632	We have to go from 27 police districts to 12. Clearly, there are major discussions around the seven criteria contained in the consultation paper on where police officers should actually sit with their operating centres and administration. These are important discussions around the country per now. Then I think it is important to actually follow up what the police reform said and the government itself has emphasised as demands for state jobs. If you don't, and if you weigh it the lowest, it'll always be the largest place that wins, whether there's multiple counties that merge or there's a small town up against a big city. It is important to clarify whether you actually mean what is in the document, or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1637	The conclusion of the representative Botten must consist of an incorrect conclusion. Of course, it's not that the smallest place always loses, there's no reason to say. If you look at what the criteria in the guidelines actually deal with, then competence requirements are one condition. Other conditions include cost-effectiveness, efficient response, proximity to service, infrastructure, proximity to other types of professional environment and public authorities, etc., and consideration of the objective of localisation policy. Several criteria are taken into account when dealing with state guidelines for the location of jobs and government service production. I believe that the representative Botten is wrong when she believes that Stortinget's intention is not respected. It's taken care of. This follows the government up, and we do it in a proper way. The criteria to which the representative Botten refers all have different references to the same guidelines. So saying that they're just weighted by 10 pst, they're really not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1648	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In Norway, we have a shared system to protect vulnerable persons. Kripos have assumed the most serious cases in which a fictitious ID can be created. Oslo and other police districts are responsible for threatened persons in connection with assaults, family violence, forced marriages, hate crime, informants, etc. They have fewer means of providing real protection, and there is no programme of their own in the Norwegian police. Will the Council consider setting up a working group to create a system for better local protection of vulnerable persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1657	Let me first thank the representative for a question on a very important topic, and I am pleased that the representative addresses this discussion. The police — and the police’s task — have been prioritised by this government. It's the representative of Bøhler who's very familiar with it. These are large resource strengths. A great deal of resources and resources has been allocated, and new, major structural changes must be supported during better and more efficient task execution. The police budget has increased by about 2.1 billion. kr to approx. Mr 15.9 B.C.E. kr as at 30 September 2015 and a further growth has been proposed in 2016. With the proposals now under discussion in Stortinget, police budgets will have increased by about 3 billion. kr since the Progress Party-Right Government joined. Such significant resource strength will provide a basis for good management also of the type of case raised by the representative of Bohemia. Close police reform involves structural and other changes that will affect police capacity and competence in the performance of different tasks. By bringing together today's 27 police districts to the age of 12, we will lay the foundation for larger trade unions, pooling resources and improving interaction on this issue as well. It shall contribute to the better functioning of the police. In this respect, the near-police reform will help the police to improve their ability to protect vulnerable people in individual police districts. The police's efforts to protect vulnerable people are organised through national witness protection guidelines. These guidelines establish two levels of responsibility for protection: a local level, where police districts are responsible for ensuring the security of witnesses in their own police districts, and a national level, taken care of by the Police Directorate at the Kripos. In addition, the Police Directorate is responsible for the interaction and coordination of witness protection and the coordination of witness protection with other countries. Local police have a number of tools to protect vulnerable people. The active substances vary and will always be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Mobile violence alarm, electronic control, relocation, restraining visits, patrolling, watchkeeping, address bar and protection of personal data are some of these instruments. When this is not enough, you can apply for inclusion in the national witness protection programme and get a fictitious identity. The question from the representative, Mr Bøhler, is whether I would like to set up my own working group to see how the protection provided at the local level can be improved. One of the reasons I was very happy with this question is that I feel we have been in the lead and have already delivered on this, because there are some police districts that have developed a particularly good competence in protecting vulnerable people. They are now participating in a separate working group, such as: look at how the new police districts should organise the protection of vulnerable persons. It is also necessary to develop its own functional descriptions for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1672	I thank you for your answer. It is important to clarify that there is not just witness protection, because there will be people, for example. in cases where there has also been no outreach, against which there may be threats – sending to the country of origin in order to be coerced, that there may be a risk of repeated abuse, violence in close relationships, where there is no mention of witness protection, but other factors that give rise to very serious threats. There may be aspects of the culture of honor in child protection matters, the conditions of informants, etc. So it could be a wide range of tasks that local police departments have to deal with. When I talk to those who work on this, and – as the Council of State also says – it is clear that it depends on the work locally, they say it cracks, and that better coordination is needed. But will the working group of the Councils begin to look at coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1681	It is absolutely right that there is a diversity of situations, and there is a huge challenge in many ways to ensure that one has a satisfactory follow-up and protection of those at risk. We have also taken another initiative that I think there is reason to mention, namely a separate initiative to take a full review of the visit ban as a safeguard measure, as well as these other follow-up measures. The purpose of the work of the working group is to look at how to solve this in a more coherent and equal way locally, and that is what I believe the representative is concerned about: bringing together what can be described as ‘best practice’, in order to ensure that a person with a new police district structure is managed and followed up on protection measures aimed at vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1690	That's good. I think it's limited capacity that's set aside for that until now, for example. Oslo police district, which has the largest scope of this, has two people working on it, and they have a lot of things and they work around the clock. But it is clear that the police district must also look at its resource use. What they point out is that they have limited instruments. The Council of State said that if you have a person who is seriously threatened and you do not have enough tools locally, you can apply for inclusion in the national programme. But it's a very long step to go too many to delete its entire ID, create a new ID and delete all the tracks after who you've been in life. So they cancel out an intermediary thing, where you can get more security than today, but don't take the step all the way out. So I would also encourage you to look at opportunities, for example. in the case of the creation of a temporary second ID, other intermediate solutions, in order to provide greater certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1699	There's a good input that I think is good, because there's no doubt that all the measures taken to protect those at risk will somehow have an impact on their private sphere. And of course, being included in the national witness protection programme is a huge burden, because then you're kind of wiped out from what you've been, the identity you've had a whole life, and it's a huge burden on those who are exposed to it. I am open to consider all kinds of measures that can help reduce the negative impact on those at risk. This is a situation in which they haven't put themselves in, because there are others who put them in that position. And it is important then to ensure that we have a diversity of instruments. Now we have a diversity of instruments already, but I am open to considering further actions that may have an effect, provided that it has a real effect, and that it is an instrument that could be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1710	«Inside. 305 S for 2014-2015, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party wrote a plural note on the demarcations in the agreement with the Netherlands on the lease of prison places, that medical interventions outside prison and drug addicts on LAR programmes should not be transferred. In reply to written questions, the Minister for Justice and Security has acknowledged that addicts to the LAR programme have nevertheless been transferred. Why does the Council of State not respect the majority of the population and sends LAR patients to settlement in the Netherlands?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1717	Under the third paragraph of Section 1a of the Criminal Enforcement Act, when transferring to the Netherlands, prisoners are to be offered health care equivalent to the one they would have been entitled to in criminal proceedings in Norway. At the time that Prop. 92 LS for 2014-2015 was provided, the Ministry was not fully aware of the offer that one would eventually end up with in the Netherlands as regards the offer to LAR patients. Therefore, the Ministry considered that patients under LAR treatment should not be transferred to the Netherlands, which is repeated in the position of the Judicial Committee as referred to by the representative. As a previous answer to written question No. 50, from the representative, and written question No. 28, from Kari Henriksen, shows, the Netherlands offers LAR equivalent to the follow-up to the sentence given in prison in Norway. Some inmates following LAR treatment have themselves requested a transfer to the Netherlands, which has been transferred after an individual assessment and in consultation with the responsible LAR centre. Prisoners are informed of the possibility of LAR in the Netherlands in advance and have a conversation with the health department. Thus, it is not appropriate to force the transfer to settlement in the Netherlands of persons attending the LAR, but I think it would be difficult, even for the representative Toppe, to find good arguments for refusing a voluntary transfer to settlement in the Netherlands under LAR treatment. So I'm curious if the representative actually thinks that we should have special rules for people who want to be transferred to the Netherlands, who are going to prevent them from doing so, because they are LAR patients. I think it would be demanding to defend. It's not about not having respect for remarks in Stortinget, rather on the contrary. I think the most important perspective with the comment was to prevent us from forcing people under LAR treatment to be repatriated to the Netherlands, not to keep people who want to go to the Netherlands voluntarily, back in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1724	This is a somewhat surprising answer, I have to say, because there was a broken political majority in this case, and the majority suggested that the transfer of stakes in all matters should be done of free will. Now there's been another situation, but let's see. But in that situation, regardless of whether it was of free will, or whether it was of coercion, the Storting was clear that when there was a glitch in need of health care outside prison, and the intrusions on the LAR – that is, it's not about ordinary health care, it's about insertion that has a different health need – they shouldn't be transferred. I have to ask again: how do my government councils say that the rehabilitation part of the LAR programme should be dropped in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1733	The LAR offer in the Netherlands corresponds to the LAR offer in Norway. The question is whether we should make use of an opportunity to specifically prevent persons who want to settle in the Netherlands from travelling to the Netherlands to make a settlement because they are in the LAR when they receive an equivalent offer. As far as I can recall, the representative Toppe's party did not agree with this majority remark, but it is nice that she takes care of the interests of those who supported the majority comment anyway. I have to say that I find no reason to refuse any person who wants a compensation transfer to the Netherlands, who receives a proper offer, and who, after an individual assessment, receives a follow-up similar to the one that would have been received in Norway, a transfer to compensation in the Netherlands. Now it is not right, as the representative Toppe says, that the transfer to the Netherlands should be voluntary. It should be voluntary as far as it can be done, and it is practiced today for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1740	After the Council of State argues, I understand that the Christian People's Party, which was involved in obtaining multiple numbers for this agreement with the government party, is fully in agreement with and quite a few in that LAR patients should be able to be transferred to the Netherlands, and this does not mean what they expressed in the vote. I just want a confirmation from the government that what's going on is completely consistent with the Christian People's Party's big crowd.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1747	As the representative Toppe is certainly familiar with, I do not represent the Christian People's Party, and I think it is important that the Christian People's Party responds on its own behalf. I respond on behalf of the government, and the government has found no basis for preventing people who wish to transfer to the Netherlands voluntarily, even if they are under LAR treatment, from being transferred to the Netherlands. I believe that the question from the representative Toppe is really backwards, because the question is: what is the reason, or the reason why, that we should refuse someone to go to restitution in the Netherlands at their own request, when they receive the offer, is in line with the offer they have requested, when there are similar offers they receive in the Netherlands as they receive in Norway? Now I know that I am not going to ask the representative a question, so I accept that I am not getting an answer, but I believe that the question from the representative Toppe is completely backwards. I believe one must have a specific basis to refuse it, when one has an offer that is actually equivalent to what we have in Norway. When people themselves want such a reconciliation transfer, we should, of course, facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1758	‘In the government’s additional contribution to the State budget, the energy-oriented assistance is cut significantly. How will this affect the work of the International Department of the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate, which is under the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1765	As the representative points out, it is proposed in the supplementary proposal that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be capped. 166 item 74, renewable energy assistance is reduced from 790 million. NOK 270 million. kr. Within the NVE, cooperation projects with eight countries are currently funded under this item. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now launched a process in cooperation with its foreign stations and Norad to look at how budget reduction can best be implemented in a way that has the least impact on the achievement of the objectives set by the Storting for international efforts in the field of renewable energy. This process has not been completed at the moment. That is why it is not that we can today say how this reduced framework will be distributed among programmes and institutions. Therefore, it is not easy to say anything very specific about how this will in detail affect the NVE’s international work in the future. That the reduction will make the work and activity of the NVE also in the international department – where many in the NVE work on international issues, without being employed in the international department – likely to be downgraded, I think there is reason to assume. At the same time, a significant part of this effort is made with hired consultants, not always with own employees of the NVE.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1774	Thank you for the answer, although there was really no answer. What I can at least read out of it is that it will mean quite a lot for the investment in the international in what is the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy. Because as he illustrates very well, it's about very large cuts. There are therefore two thirds of Norway’s contribution to renewable efforts to be cut. As the Minister of Oil and Energy should be very aware, it is that if we are to succeed in avoiding an international climate disaster, growth must come in renewable energy in developing countries. In Norway, we have world-leading competence in this; we have world-leading competence in the planning and realisation of important projects. These have been used to contribute to sustainable growth in developing countries. So this is what the government now wants to break. My specific question to the eight projects for which the NVE is responsible today is: are there projects of the projects where it is relevant to break already concluded agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1781	Of course, it is important in this work, which is mainly done in a department other than mine, that the way this is scaled down is as tidy as possible and creates as few negative consequences as possible for the cooperating countries. Then I would like to agree with the August representative – international cooperation on the development of renewable energy sources will be important to enable the development of more sustainable energy systems over time. This is, as Aukrust's representative is familiar with, something both the government and the majority of the population take the most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1788	I notice that the Minister will not answer if it is appropriate to break concluded agreements. When he doesn't answer here in the Storting, it says in the proposition from the government that it's going to be the consequence of the policy that the Council of State has agreed to. Then the climate summit begins in a few weeks. I don't think the oil and energy minister is going there, but I know that very many of his colleagues around the world are going to meet in Paris. As the Minister knows very well, one of the major issues is financing climate action, and financing renewable energy as one of the most important. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Energy is: Does he agree that there is a need for continued assistance for renewable projects in developing countries if we are to succeed in international climate policy, and if we are to get the energy mix globally turned more towards renewables and out of fossils?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1795	In a situation where we see global energy demand increasing – it is largely driven by the fact that people who previously did not have access to high-value energy resources are now receiving it – it is, of course, important to encourage renewable energy to make up a larger share of the global energy supply in the world. When we also know that a significant part of the growth in energy consumption is coming precisely in countries that do not have the level of development and industrialisation that we have in Western Europe, it is of course important that growth is facilitated there too. So it's that Norway's involvement in this area will still be significant. But it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has a significant part of the responsibility of the representative of Aukust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1805	‘The provision of temporary wells on Norwegian pedestal is raised by several as a current measure to contribute to activity on Norwegian pedestal, as well as a measure made possible by falling rigs and increased availability of rigs. Will the Council of State facilitate accelerated well-plugging where appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1812	Let me start by saying that I am happy and appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party is concerned with the level of activity on the Norwegian base. So is the government. There is no doubt that both industry and, in part, the Norwegian economy are facing some day-to-day challenges because, by 2013–2014, we saw a sharp increase in costs on Norwegian pedestal, partly driven by a very high level of activity. We have also seen that the oil price has fallen quite sharply in the last 18 months. In total, it puts parts of the oil industry in a very demanding situation. In this situation, stability and predictability by the authorities are very, very important. The main responsibility for addressing the challenges now facing industry lies precisely with industry, and my clear impression is that industry, represented not only by suppliers and operators but also represented by trade unions, is taking this challenge seriously and is now working to bring down costs so that it can not only harvest our energy resources, but also create great values for society in the decades ahead. But the management of petroleum resources must be managed in a long-term perspective. It is an objective that these resources should benefit the entire Norwegian people, principles that I know the Workers' Party is behind. In the very framework of petroleum activity, we have a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the authorities on the one hand and the industry on the other. The authorities control this activity through frameworks, such as: consist of obligations linked to the abandonment of wells. This legislation sets out both how and when wells are to be secured, monitored and studied. According to today's regulations, all wells must be secured before leaving, so that the integrity of the well is maintained during the time they have left. There are different requirements for different types of wells, and there is a very complex work that also needs to be well planned. But to demand well-plugging as a counter-cyclical measure is not a wise approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1821	Firstly, it is not a counter-cyclical measure; it is a measure that must be implemented sooner or later – studying wells permanently is perhaps one of the most boring jobs an oil company should actually do. What is one of the essence of the discussion is that it may be socially reasonable to exploit the available capacity, among other things. in the rigging market now and in the planning phases related to permanent study. We know there's a discussion with the oil companies on the one hand and maybe those who are most eager to get the wells studied permanently on the other side, where there's not a full overview of the number of wells to be studied. But there is no doubt that the rate at which the permanent study takes place is less than what the need for permanent study should be, at least there is reason to assume it. Is that an opinion shared by the Minister for Oil and Energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1828	I share at least the belief that this is a great work, it is a technically demanding work, and it is very, very important that these types of operations, like all other operations on the Norwegian base, are handled with the necessary degree of thoroughness. It includes, inter alia: that these types of operations must be well planned before they start. The representative of Aasland is told that there is no permanent well-plugging at all on Norwegian soil. That's not right. In the next few years, there will be a study of between 50 and 60 wells on a Norwegian base, and there will be permanent well-plugging in the North Sea as we stand here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1835	I am aware that the activity related to permanent study has increased somewhat. It has increased somewhat in line with the attention related to the need for permanent study as well. I am concerned that the Minister of Oil and Energy rejects this as a good measure in a situation where industry as such has a low economic cycle, and where the Council of State itself believes that in some time the activity will come back – not to the historical level that has been in recent years, but back to a slightly higher level. It would then make sense to manage skills in the best possible way in the low economic cycle, and then it would have to be sensible to do things that have to be done in any case. My specific question now to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State contribute to providing the authorities with a sufficient and good overview of which and the number of wells to be and should be studied in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1842	First of all, I want to say that I have not rejected the fact that this is a good measure. What I tried in my first answer was to reject the fact that it would be a good idea to oversee the framework of activity we have on Norwegian pedestal by making political decisions that override the role-sharing on Norwegian pedestals, which sets the framework, and the companies, which in the framework make commercial decisions on these kinds of questions as well. Then I would like to say that we have a good health, environmental and safety framework on a Norwegian base. I think there's a broad consensus on that. As far as well integrity is concerned, there is also legislation that has been tightened up in recent times, and what I am of course concerned about is that the health, environment and safety considerations – including the external environment – are well taken care of. I believe that is the case with today's legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1853	‘How will the Council of State work to ensure that the necessary competences, which will be necessary for the further operation and development of the Norwegian petroleum sector, do not disappear from the Norwegian base during downtime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1858	Let me repeat what I said to the representative of Aasland: I am pleased that the Workers' Party is genuinely concerned with the level of activity on the Norwegian base and the management of the amazing energy resources we have in our seas. But that's how we saw in the period until 2013 that the costs on Norwegian pedestal evolved in a direction that was unsustainable, with an oil price of $100 barrel, and at least it's not with an oil price of about $50 barrel, as we see now. I realized that parts of the industry were well in the process of reducing costs already in 2013–2014, and it is clear that this is a work that has been intensified today. It's an important job. Industry is responsible for its own competitiveness. It is an important work that is now underway in industry to reach a cost level that allows profitable energy production from Norwegian pedestal to continue in the future. On the part of the authorities – I repeat once again what I said to the representative of Aasland – stability and predictability in the framework of petroleum activity are all, most important government and collapse can contribute. In the longer term, we need to find more resources to maintain the activity at today's level. That's why access to new areas is important, which I know the Workers' Party agrees with me. We are now working in the Ministry of Oil and Energy both with the 23rd concession round and with the allocation in TFO 2015. When it comes to maintaining the capacity of the industry, I also believe that the industry itself has the primary responsibility. Nevertheless, we have chosen by the government to propose to strengthen petroleum research in Norway by 100 million. kr in the 2016 budget of the Danish Research Council’s DEMO 2000 programme. This is a programme that is very targeted at academics — highly educated personnel — in the supplier industry, for example. Civil engineers, as we now see, have challenges in the labour market. DEMO 2000 will be important in the short term. It will release a total of 600 million. SEK for petroleum research and employment of many people next year. At the same time, it will provide a good basis for enhanced resource management and increased energy production and safer and more climate-friendly energy production on Norwegian soil in a longer perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1871	Thank you for your answer, Councillor. The Council of State says that industry is responsible for its own competitiveness, but also refers to various research programmes in the budget to which it proposes to allocate money. It's, as the Council of State also said, opening up new areas in the 23rd concession round. New land, as far as you can see, hasn't been available in 20 years. That would mean moving activity in the north. Future activity in the north will require today's competence in the west. It is important that these human resources do not disappear abroad or to other sectors. What will the Council of State do to ensure that it does not do so, other than by providing funds for various research programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1878	As I said, we see the demanding world around us, not only large refugee flows to Europe and also to our country, but also an oil market out there that has some challenges. Just in such a situation, I will never stop repeating that stability and predictability in petroleum management are one of the most important contributions we can make. So I want to draw attention to something the representative of Aasland said in an article earlier. It has not been given that we will have all the large capacity we had in the industry in 2013 and 2014, again. We have to make this more efficient, we have to produce oil with something less annual work than the case has been before. That's why I'm not important to lock in – fantastically important – competence in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1885	Federal Head of Industry Energy, Leif Sande, says this clearly: ‘A whole generation of oil workers are losing their jobs.’ He asks the government to extend the period of leave. I guess that's what the Council of State pointed to in the answer right now. The Prime Minister has also said several times in this Chamber that it is not a proposal that the government will meet. But what measures does the Council of State see as more effective to ensure that the necessary competences remain in the oil and gas sector and do not disappear than changes in the law enforcement system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1890	My impression is that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Robert Eriksson, first of all, has already extended the legislation on permitting in line with the wishes of the industry. I have the impression that Council of State Eriksson has said that the development of the labour market also in individual industries is a development he will follow closely and continuously assess. There has been a tradition in Norwegian policy of scaling up and down the period of leave depending on the situation in the labour market. It is my impression that the Council of State, Eriksson, has also said that he will. Then I see that industry is now getting a good grip on the cost challenges. It is also about to get a good grip on preparing for the journey that we all assume is coming – and we know it is coming – and the industry is also well gripped by the issue of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1901	‘Existing participant agreement at CO2 Technology Centre Mongstad expires in 2017. [[TCM]] TCM has intentional agreements with a number of technology testing actors that will go beyond 2017. The final agreement may not be concluded until the future operation of the centre has been completed. How will the Council of States proceed to ensure that the future operation of the TCM is clarified in time for final testing agreements beyond 2017?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1911	Last fall, we briefed the Storting on our carbon capture and storage strategy in connection with the state budget for this year. That strategy demonstrates that the TCM is an important element of the government’s strategy, and the installation has already delivered significant results in terms of qualifying CO2 capture technologies and reducing risks associated with this type of project. We have had several suppliers with different technologies where there is a very competent environment, whose competence benefits not only in other Norwegian industry but also in carbon capture plants in other parts of the world. We have also learned important lessons about what other environmental challenges can be encountered in setting up full-scale carbon capture plants, including information shared with our international partners, and have also been used internationally. The Technology Centre is also an important element of international cooperation and has strengthened interaction and cooperation between Norway and not least the United States in this important area of technology. It has always been the basis for this work to operate the Technology Centre in close cooperation with industrial actors. There has been a principle that has had the support of the Workers' Party – I guess it still has. At least I think it's very important, but also to make sure that the plant will still be attractive to technology owners who will test their technology there. It is also important in the further work on the TCM. Then we have also announced in the strategy that we will consider different options for the operation of the Technology Centre after the expiry of the existing participant agreement in August 2017. It's a mission we've now given to Gassnova, among other things. to evaluate how the installation has achieved the objectives set by the government, but also different alternatives for the organisation of operations after 2017. This work will, of course, be kept informed in the context of the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1925	I thank you for your answer. The work carried out at the TCM is extremely important both for Norway as a major oil and gas nation and for the fight against global warming. What's the problem here, and what worries me, is that the crew at TCM is the second of the industrial partners. If we are to have further operations beyond 2017, we must also have industrial partners with us. There's a timeline in this as well. It must be completely crystal clear in mid-2016 that there will be continued operation at TCM in order to allow those actors that have now received support from the Department of Energy in the United States to test at TCM to initiate their testing, which will go beyond 2017. Then there is a timeline as to how the Storting should be involved, how to get businesses in place, and how to get budgetary resources in place in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1930	Let me admit that I've probably been worried a lot about whether the testing centre in Mongstad is able to get partners, especially in the testing area. I must admit that I do not have that concern today. On the contrary, I believe that there is a great international interest in testing at Mongstad, among other things, as the representative Henriksen points out, from American technology owners, both state and commercial actors. So, of course, this is big industrial processes. On the one hand, it makes you have to start in good time. I believe that the government has done so. At the same time, it must be addressed with the necessary thoroughness, precisely for the same reason. We are going, as I said, to keep the representative Henriksen and the rest of the Stortinges informed about this work in the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1937	It is not the annual budgetary processes that I am concerned with being informed about now. What we need to get in place is a continuing operation agreement that is so clear in mid-2016 that the test agreements that now exist will be implemented. I would also like to take the opportunity to follow up on another question related to this issue, which concerns empty 3 at the test centre. What we have now is two plots that test on a fairly large scale two different types of technologies. It has been discussed whether the third site could be used to test several different technologies, and perhaps also on a smaller scale than the two large, heavy test facilities now standing, which are very one-sided in technology. This will also make the plant more attractive for testing by industrial operators. Will this continue to be part of the Ministry's plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1944	It's true, as the representative Henriksen points out, there are areas available in Mongstad, which you could call the third plot, which in theory can be used to carry out scale tests of less size than the two large plants currently operating in Mongstad. It's of course in a further development of this. I will in no way rule out the fact that the representative Mr Henriksen is calling for will be topical, but no decision has been taken to establish the necessary infrastructure on that site. But of course, it's one of the things that needs to be considered in the question of the further development of the test centre at Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1949	We're going to go to question seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1956	This question, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister of Culture, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has declared himself inhabitant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1959	‘Kistefos-Museet is owned by a foundation controlled by Christen Sveaas. In 2015, the Workers' Party proposed to increase the allocation by 500 000 kroner. This did not get a majority in Stortinget. What new criteria have been used to ensure that the Council of State” – the responsible Council of State – ‘has proposed an increase in 2016?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1966	State Councillor Thorhild Widvey has declared itself incapacitated in dealing with Kistefos-Museet. The budget application from the museum was usually presented to me as a set-up council. However, I was in paperwork at that time. The museum’s application was therefore dealt with by my local councillor Elisabeth Aspaker. In other words, the question has been a bit of a journey by the government. From the Ministry of Culture's budget chapter 328, Museums and other cultural protection purposes, substantial State operating grants are granted to about 70 museums, including a minor grant to Kistefos-Museet in the municipality of Jevnaker in Oppland. In 2015, the grant to the museum amounts to 0.5 million. kr. Kastefos-Museet keeps up in the premises after the A/S Kastefos Wooden Sliberi, which was in operation from 1889 to 1955. In addition to being a technical-industrial cultural memory, there is also an art dissemination arena with a sculpture park and an art hall. With the support of the Riksantikvaren, a major effort has been made to bring to life industrial history, including: so that important parts of the retained production equipment can also be demonstrated in use. The sculpture park has also been expanded with generous contributions from the financier Christen Sveaas. In 2014, the museum registered 25 000 visitors, an increase of about 25 pst. compared to the previous year. In its budget application for 2016, Kistefos-Museet has asked for a significant increase in the grant from the Ministry of Culture. A real increase of 2 million was applied for. to actions related to enhanced dissemination and operation. Of total budget proposals on cap. 328, close to 1.2 billion. The government has proposed a small increase of SEK 483 000 to the Kistepos Museum in 2016 to strengthen the museum’s intermediary activities. Kastefos-Museet today appears to be a rather unique plant in the Norwegian museum flora. Both the number of visits and the overall scope of the museum activities indicate a slight increase in the state grant. The government decided to give priority to increasing the Museum's contribution for 2016 in order to recognise the work done by this museum. The museum has been good at operating its institution with mainly private funds. Of a total application volume from museums of 300 to 400 million. In recent years, there is always room for prioritising real growth to only a few museum measures on the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Among these applications are very many qualified applications which cannot be identified as a priority. This is why the government did not find any room for prioritising real growth to the Kistefos Museum in the 2015 budget, just as it was not possible to prioritize a number of other qualified applications from museums around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1983	I thank you for your answer. There is little doubt that there is a need for means of communication to Norwegian museums and other cultural institutions. What I want to follow up with concerns the criteria the Council of State responsible has used to strengthen Kistefos' approach to other relevant, very comparable facilities, both in the case of museums and not least in the industrial history of Norway, by putting it on the cultural budget versus the industrial history of the Ministry of the Environment's chapters and records.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1990	Now it's like I'm only responsible for the Kistefos Museum on the Ministry of Culture's budget, because of Thorhild Widvey's instability. So the general questions about the priority criteria for other museums need to be addressed to the Minister of Culture. Now, in my reply, I have clearly identified the kind of museum Kistepos Museum, both an industrial museum, an industrial memory and an art museum, which is therefore also involved in dissemination. When there are more applications than you have money for, a few have to get money and others do not. Then the normal technical criteria are based on what are the plans for dissemination. Well, I guess you're looking at numbers, and you're also looking at the quality of the museum. When this is also a museum that has been nice to operate with private funds, I believe that the increase that has been introduced is reasonable and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e1997	I thank you for your answer. I am not quite sure if I get a specific response from the responsible state council regarding the allocation to Kistepos rather than other comparable museums and art intermediaries. So I want to ask the question again: what criteria has the responsible state council used to give funds to the Kistepos Museum?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2004	To be honest, I'm not quite sure if I understand the question. The premise here is that you have an application volume of between 300 and 400 million. kr, and then you can prioritize real growth for only a few museum actions based on it. Then there's an assessment going on in the department. I don't think there's a public list of criteria you have to fill for it. It is normal political and technical assessments that take place in all such budgetary matters. If it is the case that the Ministry of Culture has a fixed list of criteria, which are also public, then, of course, I must be corrected and the representative must see it. However, it is not possible to give any other answer to this than that when you have to give priority, you see which applications are good and where there is a need. When there are many good applications, you have to choose a few every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2009	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2016	«In Today's Business Saturday, 31 October 2015, it appears that the brothers Løvenskiold and the school group Anthon B Nilsen have collected 100 million kroner from the operation of private schools. It is illegal to take dividends from state-supported educational institutions, while at the same time Løvenskiold claims that everything has been done under the law. What is the assessment of this by the Council of State and what measures the Council of State is considering to implement in terms of organisational, control, punishment, decoration, etc.?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2023	Private higher education institutions receiving State grants may not generate any financial dividends or otherwise transfer a surplus to the owner or its related party. State operating grants and self-payment from the students shall benefit the students. In the case referred to by the representative of Knag County, a merger has been carried out in a way that has given the parent company Anthon B Nilsen Education AS an accounting gain when selling two colleges. The transaction is done in multiple terms. First it was Norway's Information Technology College AS, NITH, the two universities NISS College AS and Westerdal University AS. So, NITH inducted both NISS and Westerdal's college, and took the name Westerdal's ACT. NITH bought NISS College and Westerdal University from its own owner, Anthon B Nilsen School Operations AS, for 105 million. kr. The Ministry has been presented as an intragroup sales transaction. Anthon B Nilsen Education AS and the colleges have underlined that no dividends have been paid. We do not yet have a basis to conclude that something illegal has happened. The Ministry has asked Westerdal's ACT why the merger was carried out in this way, and why the owner company Anthon B Nilsen did not just merge NITH, NISS and Westerdals without one college buying the other two first. We have also asked questions about the pricing of the companies. On Monday, it became known that Anthon B Nilsen Education AS will return the purchase price in its entirety and ‘unsetting’ the economic transactions. I think that's good, but the department is still going to get answers to the questions we've asked. Once we've got it, we need to look at what we have on the ground to proceed with this specific matter. Regardless of this, the case also illustrates that today's legislation is not clear enough. The same applies to the content and location of supervisory responsibilities. It was also a recognition that the red-green government came to when it put down the so-called Andreassen Committee, an expert group to investigate how this can be improved. When we came into the government and took a position on the sample that was set down, we decided that this was an important work, and the expert group got its work completed and delivered its report. It has now been at the hearing, which was finished this summer. We are now working on following up the expert group's proposals and will submit proposals for regulatory changes at the consultation in spring 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2046	It's a little unclear to me what is unclear about today's legislation for the owners of these institutions. It is a clear ban on exchanges in this sector. It was also pointed out by the National Audit Office in 2013 that this should be given a specific follow-up. It also alerted the department before the government change that a wanted to do, because here the Riksrevision thought it was problematic things. In Question Time last Wednesday, Erna Solberg said that there might have been more questions from the government on this matter before. There has been a lot of meeting activity after the discovery of today's Business. Have questions been asked directly to Anthon B Nilsen before the cases exploded in DN?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2053	Firstly, whether the legislation is unclear or not: I would recommend the representative to read the Andreassen Committee's report, which points out that it is unclear. Let me just do one example. The Andreassen Committee fully agrees that there should be a dividend ban, but not a ban on sales. This is then a sale not out of a group, but an intragroup transaction, which means that in theory this money can also be taken as dividends. That is the basis for the case, at least what is being examined now. There is in itself evidence of a regulatory framework that is not clear enough, but this is well and thoroughly illustrated in the Andreassen Committee's report. As regards the follow-up of the Ministry, more questions could have been asked in the past, for example: on a film and television study on which it was a round in 2011. There could be more questions for the ministry. In the past, the Ministry could also ask several questions about the transaction, even though the Ministry has followed all the usual procedures and followed up after the annual accounts came into effect in the summer of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2060	I do not feel that I received any answer to the question as to whether questions have been asked at all before the cases exploded in DN. In 2013, the National Audit Office announced that the department should follow this up, and the Ministry said before the government change that it would do – one would have a special follow-up to this case. And Erna Solberg has said that it could have asked us more questions before. My question is simple: Has there been any question about Anthon B Nilsen before the cases exploded in DN?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2067	Just so we're clear: what the Riksrevision pointed out in 2013, which was the relationship that existed before the government change, was that the equity of Anthon B Nilsen was high. What the Prime Minister responded to in the Question Time was whether more questions could be asked about the merger already in the autumn when the department was briefed on the merger. I fully agree with that, and I have repeated that from the very first moment that it could be. With regard to the follow-up to the department, we have follow-up afterwards, when annual reports come in. The merger was carried out in 2014, and the full annual accounts of Anthon B Nilsen came to us this summer, and therefore these questions are asked in the autumn. That means it's taken a long time. There are correspondence and feedback to all the private colleges, including Westerdals, but the concrete questions about this merger have now been raised in the autumn following the submission of the annual accounts for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2072	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-11.ana.ud728e2085	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
