ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e36	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad will table a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e39	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Snorre Serigstad Valen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the right to safe and toxic air.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e44	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The first case under consideration has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget examine the matter now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e62	The case concerns an additional appropriation, a change in the State budget, on which the government asks for the approval of the Storting. It is a dispute settlement where Gulating Lawyers' Law has sentenced the State to liability. This is about the construction at the Statens Hus in Stavanger. The amount is 43 million. NOK, including the costs involved, will be 45,6 million. kr. The Committee proposes that the framework be increased by 40.6 million. kr, and that the remainder will be a reduction in the budget framework of the County of Rogaland. So the matter is up and out of the world. The Committee has no other comments, refers to the proposition and asks the Stortingen to take a decision in line with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e71	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e85	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e92	The Economic and Social Committee has examined a proposal from Knut Storberget, Else-May Botten, Arild Grande and Ingvild Kjerkol to legislate on good commercial practices in order to ensure important consumer interests. I thank the Committee for its work on the matter. The Committee agrees that the Norwegian food value chain is characterised by a strong market concentration at the supply, distribution and daily food stages. The Committee agrees that it presents a challenging competitive situation. The Committee considers that sound competition is important in order to ensure safe, good and reasonable food for consumers. In order to ensure that different producers of food are given the opportunity to reach the store shelves, it is essential that there be neat negotiations that take into account good trade practices. If we are to ensure increased Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources, the Committee believes it is essential to ensure the ability to distribute and sell this food on the market. The Industry Committee points out that both the Food Chains Committee and the Food Law Committee concluded that there is a need for clearer driving rules for negotiations in the food chain. The Committee wishes to strengthen competition at retail level and to ensure that consumers' interests in terms of price, choice, quality and availability are properly respected. It is also the Committee's common position to include, inter alia: Both the work of the Committee on Food Chain and Food Law and the Committee on Foodstuffs must be at the heart of the Government's proposals for measures to improve competition and the efficiency of the food market as soon as possible. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Centre have submitted the following proposals: ‘By June 2015, the government is asked to submit proposals for the law on good trading practices in supervisory capacity, which also includes the distribution of food products.’ The majority of the committee, represented by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, think differently. At the same time, there is a concern about the competitive situation in the Norwegian groceries market. The majority believe that a well-functioning and efficient market is essential in order to safeguard the interests of consumers in terms of quality, diversity, availability and price. The same majority would stress that the current situation is such that consumers’ interests are not adequately safeguarded. The majority note that there are several opinions and opinions on the nature of the instruments to address the challenges of inefficiency and competition in the food market. The Good Trade Act is one proposal, primarily designed to make the negotiations between suppliers and food chains more effective. However, other measures and instruments may also be possible. The majority of the Committee notes that complex issues need to be addressed when dealing with the competitive situation and efficiency of the food market. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that there is a need for effective instruments and therefore wishes the government to make concrete proposals in order to improve competition and efficiency in the food market. The majority of the Committee therefore favours the following proposal for a decision: «The government is asked to propose measures to improve competition and the efficiency of the food market.» In this way, both the government and the Stortinget can continue to work on a comprehensive approach to solutions that need to be developed to improve the competitive situation and efficiency of the food market. I therefore look forward to the government coming to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for measures to improve competition and efficiency in the food market. As I understand it, the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European to 30 pst. This has not been discussed by the Committee. Me and the Left are not prepared to take this on board in this debate and will not support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e126	The Workers' Party wanted to make proposals to this effect, good trading practices with supervisory capacity, which include the distribution of food products. It is because we are concerned about ensuring good, safe and reasonable food for consumers. Increased food production at home in Norway is an important objective for us, depending on the ability to distribute and sell food in the market. Today, there are few actors that represent the daily food industry in Norway and competition is tough. In order to reach the store shelves, it is essential that negotiations take account of good trade practices. We believe that a law of good commercial conduct could be one of many instruments that ensure more transparency and opportunities for real impact and market management of the pricing of groceries so that they become as reasonable as possible. The Stoltenberg government reduced two samples, the Food Chains Committee and the Food Law Committee, which would make proposals and arrangements to improve the competitive situation in the food industry. This resulted in proposals for good trading practice. It was made clear that the legislative proposal must cover the distribution of groceries and ensure proper control and sanctioning in the event of any breach of the law. There are currently significant challenges in the Norwegian food market, and there has been a development in the value chain that has a negative impact on consumers, on the development of food trade and on food production across the country. Especially demanding is the relationship of power between the chains and the suppliers, which has been permanently changed. The Food Law Committee concluded that negotiations and contractual relations between suppliers and the food chain are such that Norway needs a new law on good trade practices. This is important in order to ensure consumer and social interests related to the production and marketing of food. The Committee also recommended the establishment of a trade supervision to enforce the law. As for what the rapporteur said instead, I want to say that at least there is a lot of work on this proposal already when there have been two samples that have concluded immediately, so it is at least mature for action if you want to do so. If you're clear from the government that this is something you don't want, then I kind of have an understanding of it, we might disagree about it, but at least it starts to be reasonably clear if you want to do it. If you're going to see it in a whole context, at least it's one of the points that is absolutely recommended to address, so the challenge to the government is, if you want to do it, when will it happen, and today you can be clear that you won't do this, if that's what you want? Finally, I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, even though they were partly submitted here from the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e139	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e142	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. There's a very strong focus on this. It is based on the strong desire that we have good access to and ensure that new products enter the market and that new producers enter the market. We record that the market concentration is very strong at all stages, really, in the Norwegian food chains. It has something to do with the fact that we also have a rather closed market, so there are major challenges we're talking about. But it should be raised beyond any doubt that there is a very strong focus in the government and in our government parties that there must be some grip here. But what kind of grip is the right one to take is pretty complicated. As far as we're not going to make it too complicated, it's a question of expanding the laws we already have, or of making our own trade law. What's the best thing to do? It is also a question of who should be empowered to follow it up. To be placed under the supervision of the Competition Authority, or to be subject to other measures and, for example: is new oversight being created? Here there are quite a number of questions that should be addressed in a proper way before going into a solution. I believe, on the basis of the signals given, that there is no doubt that there is a need for driving rules for negotiations so that there is fair treatment, especially where the really strong players meet the small and perhaps new players in the market, so that market power is not abused. There's the focus. It should ultimately benefit consumers and not be too much legal food – I think we can say so either. It has to be relatively easy to manage while achieving the results. So a little comment on the Greens' proposals, because that proposal opens up a completely different discussion. It opens up discussion about what kind of instruments we actually want to use in competition in Norway, and it violates the Constitution's principle that it should not be retroactive. That's the one. But it goes a long way in discussing antitrust legislation in Norway, where we break up already existing structures, and there is a big discussion that we do not take on board after a proposal that came yesterday. With that, I agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e153	I would also like to join in what the President-in-Office, Pál Farstad, said at the outset in the debate, and not least in what Mr Gunnar Gunnarsen said in his speech. In fact, one might briefly sum up that there is a cross-political consensus that there are many challenges to the competitive situation in the food industry in Norway. The challenges related to competitive conditions, efficiency and structure in the food value chain have been on the agenda for a long time, and the Committee has noted that competition is healthy and ensures safe, good and reasonable food for consumers. I think that's very nice and a good start. In the public debate, more points have been made to distribution and the close integration between distribution, wholesale and retail trade, and this is an important barrier to the establishment of the food market that needs to be considered. The distribution market can be demanding and this is absolutely something that needs to be considered when assessing possible measures to promote competition in the food market. This is important for the government to take part in the further work. I am pleased that the Government of the Minister of Food and Agriculture in its letter to the Food and Agriculture Committee confirms that she is already in the process of evaluating a number of measures to improve the competitive situation, and of which part of the proposals mentioned in its reports by the Food and Agriculture Committee and the Committee on Foodstuffs and Foodstuffs, and has also embarked on a larger amount of work and evaluated a number of other inputs. Not enough: as we know, you have also been abroad to look at the competitive situation of other countries in the food industry – and its value chain. Competition policy measures are also seen by the Minister for Industry, and I understand that this is a major work. These are challenges that go across policy areas and sometimes very complex issues. In a matter like this, it is important to have all sides illuminated. It is important not to take decisions that may have unintended, negative consequences, but that the measures are very accurate. I am therefore pleased that a majority supports the motion for a resolution that: «The government is asked to propose measures to improve competition and the efficiency of the food market.» I look forward, of course, to debating these measures when the government makes its recommendations to improve precisely this – including the issue of law and supervision, in which I believe that the Council of State has not fully concluded but continues to assess strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e171	This is not a new debate. The balance of power and the concentration of power in the daily food industry has been debated in this room before, and also in the public vocabulary. We have received two public investigations that both point to the challenges and outline some solutions. There is a common consensus across the batch lines that healthy competition is important in order to ensure safe, good and reasonable food for the consumer. The fact that we today have two state councils present in this room also shows how complex this matter is. If we had been fully up-to-date, we would probably have had three state councils here – we should also have had the Consumer State Councils. But I'm very happy that the Minister of Industry is here, and that the Minister of Agriculture is here, because it shows the importance of the very matter we are now discussing. While we have this consensus, we know that there is a great concentration of power at all stages, at both the distribution and the supplier stages, and in the chains we see power concentration and a distorted balance of power. There is a danger that today we have a situation where there are only the greatest and strongest who get fit in, and that that is the general rule in all terms. We know that there are large barriers to establishment in the food sector, and it can also be difficult for small suppliers to get into the range of products to the largest chains. It may also be difficult for new products to be transported to the store shelves, and it is difficult to establish new shops or chains to compete with the other large ones. It tells us recently. The Steensnæs selection, one of the samples that have looked at this, found Norway to have the worst range of products in Europe, and it is half as large as our neighbouring country in Sweden. It is too poor, especially when we know that consumers demand increased diversity and more niche products. It is also a paradox that Norway is subsidising niche products and locally produced food when the same products are struggling to enter the market in the large chains. In the debate that has taken place in public space, it has become known that there is a lack of transparency in the agreements in the food industry. It's probably because of the fact that individual actors fear to give up competitive advantage. You see that, but it also creates a room for secrecy of agreements and solutions that may not tolerate the light of day. Therefore, this industry also needs to become more transparent, but fully transparent, this industry is not going to be, because it is about competition. That's the way it is, and we have to deal with that. But the Steensnæs committee could also tell that the negotiating climate between suppliers and chains is surrounded by a lot of frustration, and also by fear of represals, and that trust in periods of trust is fragile. We know that there are threats of «delisting», poor exposure in shops and demands for higher discounts and bonuses, and that is totally unacceptable. I guess there's a lot of agreement about that, too. On the supplier side, too, we see a significant concentration of power. A few, but very strong marks have great power of definition in the negotiations. This may ultimately affect smaller and more niche-shaped goods. There is also a risk of harming consumers through higher prices and poorer sample sizes. The challenges in this sector will be eliminated if we take four measures. We need greater transparency about the agreements in the food industry, we need to get a standardisation of contracts, we need to establish a common code of good business practice, and we need to get good supervisory and dispute resolution arrangements. «The whole day is the consumer» said the head of the Food Chains Committee when he presented his report. I agree. It is the consumer's best that must be the leading star in the debate we are now in. I am therefore pleased that the government is now considering various measures to improve the competitive situation in the value chain and that the government will come back to Stortinget with such a case. So today we have made some suggestions that the government can take into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e192	Food is important, and we have a responsibility to ensure that consumers get safe, healthy and good food. The food chain from land to table is very important for everyone in Norway, and it is a value chain that is an important part of Norwegian value creation and Norwegian business. Then we have to make sure that this value chain works and that it is marked by healthy competition. In order to ensure Norwegian food production, it is essential that producers reach consumers with their products. A strong concentration of power at the supply, distribution and daily food stages may prevent this. This has been determined by two public committees and is also supported by the Committee in its comments. The disagreement arises when deciding whether to act now or to investigate, assess and analyse further. It is a matter of prioritising the ability to act or speak. I believe that action is to present proposals and adopt rules and guidelines – which have been thoroughly investigated. Talking power, I see it as when you see a government calling, whether it's the daily food industry, or it's gas station winners, to kick their ass and make a media show. It's speech. We now need action. The centre party believes that time is overdue to get a law of good trading practices to the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee disagree and ask the Government to propose measures to improve competition and the efficiency of the daily food market. The Central Party records that nothing has been said about when this is going to happen, there is an entirely open question about and when something will happen, and the Council's response to the Committee is very scarce in providing any signals or signs of what the government thinks of further action. But this matter we are dealing with today, I hope to put pressure on the government, that it perceives an impatience to move on. Good trade law is one of several instruments. As far as the Greens' proposals are concerned, there is a proposal that we need to consider in more detail. I would like to hear if either the Minister for Industry or the Minister for Agriculture have views on the proposal that has been put forward, but we are not initially prepared to vote for it today. Diversity and safety are important in food. The price is also central, but it should not only be the price that is applicable. But then something happens to this milk – and the price of the milk – from the grass until it stands in the store and on the consumer's table. The price is rising quite significantly. Knowledge of what this does is important, and for the centre party it is important to ensure that the value chain also gives the manufacturer its legitimate share of the value that is there. A previous article mentions the scarce and poor diversity of Norwegian shops and refers to the report that writes about this. It is my clear impression that there are no Norwegian food producers in it, there is a strong willingness to develop new products. What we need now is a value chain that captures this, so these products have an opportunity to reach the store shelves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e211	It is usually not good when a few have very great power, and that must be the starting point for the debate here – and for other debates. There's a lot of talk about the freedom of choice that comes from an unregulated market, but what often happens is that there are a few actors who build themselves very large, get a lot of power and thus standardize large parts of our lives, even the representative Pollestad said about product selection. In the pursuit of profit, I think it is often tempting for many to streamline to such an extent that the freedom of choice, the real freedom of choice, becomes harmful. Traditionally, Norwegian food production, distribution and sales have been a field of fair distribution of power and with a completely natural distribution of profits, where those who produce our food in Norway have received proper payment, and where a significant proportion of the profits in the retail trade itself have been distributed back to consumers through cooperatives. I have to admit that I am concerned about the structure of Norwegian food production in the long term as the large chains that we are discussing today also go more directly into agriculture. It is on the side of this case, but it has its origins in the same problem, namely that the competitive situation in the food industry is weak. It seems that the Minister of Agriculture – and the Minister of Industry for that matter – agree. The Minister of Agriculture has also expressed himself in that direction repeatedly, but I think that there is a great deal of lack of willingness to implement measures – rather uncontroversial measures, measures for which it should really be easy to have a majority in the Storting. Here, I think the majority of the vote is too reserved. We in the SV support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Senter Party. It's simply because we know that the power concentration in the daily food industry is large, it's too large. We know that the range of products could be much better and wider, and that there is a willingness to do that in many other places than at the sales level itself. We know that the Nordics want increased diversity, while the big chains stand in the way of it, directly and indirectly. We know that transparency is too poor, that there is too much secrecy, and we have received clear recommendations on simple measures that proposers point to. A law of good trade will be a good step on the way. I think the government parties are pushing the enforcement force with which they made a lot of complaints a few years ago, in front of them – for reasons I don't fully understand. It will be exciting to hear the Minister of Agriculture explain that. We also think that the Greens' proposal is good and interesting, and that the experience of the Greens' Greens' Environment Party points to, for example. from Finland and the United Kingdom, we need to learn from and take a closer look. It is a good initiative by the Greens, so we support their proposal to ask the government to assess such a change. I have also received some information that the proposer is considering making the proposal for a transmission proposal, so that it gets a proper treatment. Several of the parties at Stortinget had benefited, so if the proposer does, SV would also support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e226	The law on good trading practices is much more than the fact that two parties in the business community are going to be nice to each other. Basically, it's about having well-functioning value chains for food. Food is something each of us needs every day, but it's also culture, tradition and value choices, and it has significant influence on politics outside the food chain itself. So the question is how the value chains for food work, and it concerns us all. The power concentration in the Norwegian food value chains is very high. In 2011, the Matkette Committee revealed that the power of food chains in the value chain has increased sharply, contrary to many political desires. In 2012, the Commission concluded that there is a need for a separate law on good trade practices in the daily food market, because other legislation is too fragmentary to have a so-called ‘successful’ purpose. The Green Party therefore supports the Committee's minority, which wants the government to propose a law on good commercial practice and a supervisory function. Good trading practices are fundamental to the functioning of value chains. Increased supervision is necessary to increase transparency — trust — and to reduce the burden of alerting, which is a significant factor when you are a small supplier facing a very large and powerful buyer. The plural setting allows for more instruments. It asks the government to make proposals to strengthen competition. The Committee points out that the Norwegian food value chain is characterised by strong market concentration both at the supplier’s and at the daily food level. The Green Party therefore agrees with the Committee's assessments, but considers that the Committee has not taken into account the weight and power of the development of power constellations in the food chain. That is why we have proposed our own proposal that the government's proposed instruments also consider lowering the limits of dominant actors in the food market from 40 p.m.. to 30 pst. market share, as it has done in Finland. It shall not be unlawful to have market power, but with a strong market position, it shall also be a responsibility for the exercise of that power. The Competition Act therefore provides leadership for dominant actors. The power shall not be exercised unduly. The examples listed in the Competition Act are supply denials, under-prices, discount schemes, exclusive supply agreements and product linkages. However, the purchasing power in Norway is concentrated in the retail trade in very few hands, and if Coop and ICA get what they want, we will have three completely dominant food chains in Norway. With the Greens' proposals, two of the three food chains of the future will be defined as ‘dominant’. It will mean with our proposal that the advantage of being so large will be limited somewhat, and that smaller competitors will have a competitive advantage. It offers greater opportunities for smaller actors and new actors to escape, and it gives greater openness to diversity in the market, as I understand that everyone really agrees that we want to. I would therefore ask the representatives and parties who agree that a market with only three food chains is worrying, to consider the Greens' proposals. We believe that well-functioning value chains are a prerequisite for conscious consumers to make the choices they want. In a well-functioning food market with good value chains, the qualities of food from farmers and fishermen are targeted to consumers, and that means that there are more stories being told about the product than that the meat is highly affordable, and that means that the battle for the shelf must be determined by more factors than just which supplier pays the most. This also means that the price of food will have to reflect increasingly the actual cost of production. What the Greens want and hope for – and to the extent that they believe that the majority of people want – is to open up for smaller suppliers and new food chains to compete on quality and not just to compete on price. We are therefore proposing that the limit for dominant actors in the groceries market be reduced from 40 pst. to 30 pst. market share. But we understand – as the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has already done – that this proposal will not have a majority here and now. We therefore want to turn it into a transmission proposal, hoping that it can be dealt with in the usual way in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e250	I have been working all since I became Minister of Agriculture and Food to ensure that consumers get a fairer and better choice of food. However, there are some barriers in Norway that prevent a greater diversity in Norwegian shops, and I think it is important to do something about that. I therefore share with the proposers the description of the challenges in the Norwegian groceries market, and I believe that we need to find accurate tools to do something about this. From June to July 2014 we experienced a price jump on food that was exceptionally large. 3.2 pst. was the strongest monthly increase since July 1982. The representatives of the food chain quickly pointed to the agricultural situation. I knew that only a small part of this increase could be explained by the agricultural settlement, so I asked the industry for an explanation and took the initiative to meet the food chains and the suppliers. The meetings provided useful information. Prices went down slightly after the rise in June/July, and in the last half of 2014, food prices fell. I think that the attention we have about food prices has contributed to the fact that consumers are more concerned about price, and that the daily food industry also needs to be a little more concerned about food prices than what they were last summer. The food market and the food value chain have been identified several times, including: by the Food Chains Committee in 2011, and the latest by the Food Law Committee in 2013. These investigations have concluded that competitive conditions and socio-economic efficiency are not satisfactory. The food market is a large market and goods are traded for over 200 billion. kr annually. The market is characterised by a strong market concentration at the supplier, distribution and grocery level. Norway is among the countries of Europe with the highest market concentration. The Norwegian food market also has consistently smaller samples and higher prices than other countries with which we can compare. Studies have shown that Norwegian consumers have the smallest choice of food in the Nordic region and meet the highest prices. Competition conditions are crucial for price and selection, and food prices and diversity in shops in Norway are still subject to debate. That's good. The debate draws attention, and the food chains and the food industry note the pressure from consumers in a completely different way. For the government, it is important to provide measures that meet challenges of demanding competition. It is necessary to look at the whole value chain in the context, from primary production through industry and the supply industry to the daily food industry. I have already started work on improving the efficiency of primary production. The Government is also concerned with market concentration and restrictions on competition at industry and supplier level and the Market Balances Committee is due to deliver its report in June 2015. Challenges related to competitive conditions, efficiency and the structure of the food value chain pose complex issues. The challenges also go across policy areas and framework conditions, such as: the protection of imports. It's important for me to spend time looking into and knowing that the tools we put in actually solve the challenges we want to solve. Based on the reports of the Food Chain and Food Law Committee and a number of other inputs that have come into the process, the government assesses different actions. The government will return to Stortinget on the matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e283	As we have heard, already two samples, the Food Chains Committee and the Food Law Committee, have concluded that there is a need for clearer driving rules for the food chains and a good trading practice law. We have also noticed – and it is good – that on several occasions, including in an interview in Evening News in November, the Council of State has said that she would regulate and promote more competition in the daily food industry. She referred to the United Kingdom, she had received information about the legislation there – a law, which, as I see it, is closely related to what is proposed here. The government's mantra has been a force for action. Why does the Council of State not now show action and present a legislative proposal, which has already been well drafted after a thorough examination, to the Stortinget without any further delay?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e290	Law of Good Trade is one of the measures we are looking at. But that law will not resolve the competitive situation in the groceries market. The Commission considers that it has developed an unhealthy business culture in the industry, which prevents operators from achieving the most socio-economically effective results and that this could have a negative impact on consumers. That's what the law can do. The competitive situation and the lack of competition we have in this sector will not solve this law. That's why it's important for the government that we get to work on other measures, whether we can find other measures that can help increase competition and give more people the opportunity to get into this market. That's why it takes some time, but I promise the representative that I'll work, along with the Minister of Industry, as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e297	I think it is good that the Council of State is busy with the whole value chain, while she has a lot of meetings and has started work to solve the challenges that lie there. But then it is also important to know what kind of driving rules the State Council really wants. There's something about the political picture in it -- what's she putting in the order to find an answer? And who's going to have the right to drive, who's going to have the duty to leave, etc.? In this context, it will also be important to clarify the driving rules. We believe that we have had a very basic work in advance, before there was a change of government – with the two selections – and said that the law of good trading practice is ready to do, that it is just to introduce. What are the solutions that are not caught up in this, and what are the challenges that this does not answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e302	As I had in my previous answer, the law on good trade practices will not solve the challenges of competition in the daily food market, but it can help to increase the efficiency of the negotiations and thus, through it, secure consumers more affordable goods – perhaps – at the end of the day. That's what this sample points to, that it disappears part of the way because of these structures. As far as other measures are concerned, that is exactly what we are now working on, and it is not right for me here and now to present what measures we are considering, because we want to do a thorough job and then come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. But I think it is also good in itself that we focus on this matter, that we have looked at food prices, because it is important for everyone living in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e309	I'd rather go a little deeper into what's the order, what it is you have to solve. Because when the Council of State says that you want to come back ‘in an appropriate way’, I think it’s fine, but what is it that you want to solve, and what is it that you focus on? Because if different measures are to be taken better, it is important to have a discussion about what kind of measures you work with. It has to be something that is important to share with Storting too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e314	What's important to us is to look at the barriers of establishment that lie there today, which makes it almost impossible for someone who wants to start a grocery store, to actually do it. We want to see if there are any steps we can take to facilitate it, because we believe that Norwegian consumers will benefit. I also believe that it is important to follow closely ahead. Now we're in a situation where the dollar price has fallen. This means that it is already announced that what is imported into the country can get higher prices, and then I think we have to make sure that no one chooses to grind their own cake and perhaps set the prices extra for the consumers, so that someone takes in more than what is strictly necessary from the cost increase that the industry has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e321	The issue we are now debating is food policy, it is competition policy, and it is consumer policy. It is a complex area – and representatives of the Workers' Party believe that the answer is law on good trade practices. As I said in my post, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the government is now considering different measures to improve the competitive situation in the value chain, and that they will come back to Stortinget. But I'm probably a little impatient, because this is one thing that's been on the table for a long time. We have had two investigations, and the Council of State says it will take time to investigate, but it will come. Can the Council of State nevertheless suggest when the government will come back to Stortinget with such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e326	I can do that. I can at least promise that I and the Minister of Industry are working very actively with these questions, and that we will use a lot of resources in the future both to discuss what is sensible to do, and to make the necessary investigations, related to the measures we think we should look into. So it's hard to get engaged at the time, but this is a matter that has a very high priority in both of these departments, and where, of course, we also want to have contact with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, which the representative mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e333	Here a bill has been drawn up that is on the government's table. We are told that there is a need for further work here. I don’t think it’s good enough just to talk about different actions – over and over again. When one says to Stortinget that there are processes going on, I believe that the Council of State should also say something more about what kind of track one works after, what is meant by ‘different actions’. I don't think one should break the final solution, but one might say something about what kind of track a worker is working on, what measures a person is assessing in this process. It is very difficult to relate to the fact that we cannot get a law now because different measures are being investigated, when one does not have the ability to say anything about what the different measures are. So my question is, what are the different measures? Can you say something more specific about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e341	I understand very well that the representative Pollestad would have liked to tell me a little bit more about these proposals, so that we could start a big debate before one has at all come to an end to the assessments and, to some extent, the conclusions. But I think it's most neat that we now spend time reviewing what is possible to do, and what we finally want to do in order to increase competition. The law we're discussing here, as we've been through many times, won't solve anything about the competitive situation. We are going to come back, and I can promise the representative Pollestad that we will have a lot of good and certainly healthy debates when that time comes, but the government now needs time to work on these matters in peace and quiet. So we're going to come back at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e348	There would be nothing special if one could now have a discussion on the basis of the measures mentioned. We have had a discussion about animal police – presented in capital letters, but nothing was clear. We've got a discussion, and I think it has to be a basis for doing the same thing here, to say something about what you've been thinking. But then I want to ask you a little bit more about the process. Is it like that there's going to be a new public investigation that's going to go into special things? These are very complicated things. If you're going to go into very new areas, you're going to need to have a professional basis at the bottom. Is it true that there can be a new NOW? A selection of experts? Can the Council of State say anything more about what is thought about the further process?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e355	In my opinion, enough resources have been spent on public authorities in this matter. This is a matter that has been thoroughly highlighted in terms of the challenges, but also some solutions. That's why I think the most important thing now is that we get to work on these issues internally in the government, and this is a collaboration between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food, which will then continue the process. I was concerned that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will also be involved. So we feel like we have the investigations we need on the challenges and some of the answers, and then there are other things that aren't so clear about what you can do, and that's what we're looking at now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e365	As a proposer and not a member of the Committee, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on the matter. As several speakers have said, and as the Committee's discussion also reflects, the Norwegian food value chain is characterised by strong market concentration, and this presents a challenging competitive situation. We in the Workers' Party believe that healthy competition is very important in order to ensure that consumers are safe, good and reasonable food and to ensure that different producers of food have the opportunity to reach the store shelves, and the crucial thing here is clear negotiations that take care of good trading practices. If we are to ensure increased food production on Norwegian resources, we believe it is essential to ensure the opportunities to distribute and sell in the market. There is no doubt that there is a need for driving rules for the negotiations," said Gunnar Gundersen from the Right. Cross-political agreement, said Rytman of the Advancement Party. That's good. Everything needs to be looked at – that’s good too – and the Council of State said that a law of good trade would not solve everything, but that enough public resources have been used to investigate this here. Nevertheless, the answer is more investigation. Two selections have concluded that there is a need for clearer driving rules for the negotiations in the food chain. State Councils have visited London and received information on similar legislation in the United Kingdom and have stated that she will use pressure to obtain more competition in Norwegian retail trade. We are calling for action from the government in this matter, and we are asking that the bill that has been drawn up be presented to the Stortinget without delaying this further. As the Council of State said, enough public resources have been spent on investigations. We also believe that good control and sanctions should be ensured in the event of a breach of this legislation. The majority want more investigation and clarify that these are complex issues. Yes, that is so far, but that is not a good argument for not taking a decision on well-tested and effective instruments that address parts of the challenge. The red-green government dropped the samples to find solutions that can create confidence among consumers, and we will follow this up with political action to achieve those objectives. The working party believes that this is nothing to wait for. We want to take action to ensure that consumers are safe, good and reasonable food, and that diversity and quality reach our store shelves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e378	It is the way the Minister of Agriculture has presented the government's work in this matter, and I can only confirm that we, on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, also prioritise this matter and are committed to providing solutions that solve what is the real problem. When I take the floor, it is because the head of the Business Committee wanted a view related to the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA. I have three assessments in this regard: firstly, it will not repair what is the challenge today, because laws, under the Constitution, do not have retroactive effect. That's the first thing that has to be based on today's situation. The second is that there is no absolute 40 pst limit in the rules of the Competition Act today. This shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis and that is what the Competition Authority is doing. Thirdly, it has been – and is – important for us that our legislation is harmonised with EU legislation, and that is how it is today. Therefore, it is a bit funny that Finland has made a different decision, and we do not know the experiences of Finland. That is what I can say about the proposal. We haven't gone through it in any more detail. We can of course consider doing that if we were to find out that this is relevant in the work we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e401	In this case of amendments to the Constitutional Act, it is proposed to set up a Board of Appeal to deal with complaints concerning individual decisions taken by the Board of Supervisors. The case has its background from the opinion of the Committee on the Foundation's Law from right back to 1998, where this was proposed. A few years later, the Stortinges treatment concluded that the complaints as a provisional scheme were to be dealt with by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. With the exception of legal liability, the responsibilities of the Foundation were transferred on 1 January 2013 from the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the transfer of regulatory competence and responsibility for the management, supervision and control of foundations in Norway, including the Foundation’s supervision. As you know, the administrative responsibility of the Constitutional Act was transferred from 1 January 2014 to the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The responsibility for handling complaints about the individual decisions of the Foundation’s Supervisory Authority under the Constitution is therefore now with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Since its establishment in 2005, the number of foundations has increased sharply and the total equity of the foundations has increased from 43 billion. kr in 2005 to 125 br. kr in 2013. There has also been a large increase in the number of complaints, and they have proved to be more complicated and time consuming than provided for in the law. To this end, the Economic and Social Committee is in agreement with the assessments of the Ministry, which considers that the cases are more suitable for an expert body in the form of a complaint subject of its own than for ministerial proceedings. Finally, I would like to stress the need and the need for independence and professional expertise, and that it is important that the Board of Appeal has its own secretariat. It is important to ensure independence, and it is not ensured if this is co-located in the premises of the Lottery and the Foundation. This is also supported and pointed out by several hearing bodies. Since there is cross-political agreement on this matter and on the proposal from the government, I stop here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e416	I am very pleased that a Joint Nutrition Committee recommends that the Stortinget adopt the proposals for amendments to the Constitutional Act to establish a complaint. The proposal involves transferring the handling of complaints about the individual decisions of the Foundation’s Supervisory Authority from the ministry to an expert body, a complaint subject. It will help to ensure that treatment is independent of political considerations or other ministerial governance. In this way, we can also ensure the greatest possible level of non-discrimination for the complainants. The Ministry shall not be able to instruct by name in individual cases or to amend the terms of individual decisions in accordance with Section 35 of the Administrative Act. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries will be able to give general interpretation opinions on the Constitutional Law, since the legal responsibility lies in the Ministry. Since the amendments to the Constitutional Act in 2005, there has been almost a doubling of the number of complaints sent to the Ministry. The cases have proved to be more complicated and time consuming than what was assumed, and they travel difficult and complex judgemental considerations. In the light of both time use and professional expertise, these arguments also argue that complaints should be moved from ministerial proceedings to an independent complaint subject. The Board of Appeal shall consist of three members. They are appointed for a period of four years, with the possibility of re-appointment. The Board of Appeal shall also have a secretariat. It is the Ministry of Culture that is responsible for the creation of the subject of complaints, and the Board of Appeal will be subject to the Ministry of Culture on administrative matters. The annual cost of an action for damages has been estimated at 1.8 million. kr. The term proposed is financed by an increase in the annual fee for foundations. The maximum cost increase is added to foundations with the highest equity, so that the levy increases by the amount of equity. It is reasonable to assume that a high-equity foundation has more ability to pay for the review procedure than a foundation with little equity. In addition, the larger foundations often require more resources for the review process, and poor operation of a large foundation will have greater consequences than for a small foundation. The annual supplement to the annual fee payable by the foundations for the operation of the name is from NOK 6 to NOK 4100, depending on the amount of the Foundation's equity. In general, these amounts are very small for almost any foundation. The proposal also covers all expenditure and revenue resulting from the proposal within the current budgetary framework of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e439	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e511	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Else-May Botten, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By June 2015, the government is asked to submit proposals for the law on good trading practices in supervisory capacity, which also includes the distribution of food products.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e536	Recommendations of the Committee The members of the Committee from the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The Committee's recommendation II is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e547	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e556	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in its proposal for instruments to strengthen competition in the food market, consider lowering the limit for dominant actors in the food market from 40 % to 30 % by model from Finland. Any changes to the Competition Act will be added to other instruments to promote increased competition in the food market.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e655	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e665	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-12.ana.ud1982e677	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
