ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e49	The representatives Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Heidi Nordby Lunde and Helge Thorheim, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, there is an application for an exemption from the meeting of the representative of Mazyar Keshvari on Thursday 19 November, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate for Oslo, Aina Stenersen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Aina Stenersen is present and will take the seat. As previously announced, there will be a break in the Stortinget meeting today following the debate on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 15.30 for the treatment of the rest of today's maps and voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e95	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e102	Today, we are dealing with a law that will mean a lot to many patients – a system of contact doctors in the specialist health service – and the committee is unanimous in its view that the need for hospital contact doctors is necessary and supports the ministry's proposals. During his own cancer treatment, doctors and professor Fugelli met a whole hour of what he called the one-time doctors. He met 37 single doctors during his treatment. When he learned that the department was working on presenting a bill on contact doctors, he said to the Medisin of the Day, "This is gold!" and it is gold to give more rights to patients and to ensure that patients with serious illness or injury should feel safe through an entire treatment course. The Committee considers that a contact physician is involved in improving safety and communication. Many seriously ill patients just experience that they meet many doctors. This poses a risk that information, and not least communication, can become poor, and we all know that failure to communicate poses a high risk of injury to patients. The Committee also considers that the introduction of the specialist healthcare coordinator was positive for the coordination of the service provision. A coordinator is one who shall coordinate long-term and coordinated services, ensure the necessary follow-up of the patient and develop an individual plan. The Committee supports the fact that the coordinator does not need to be a doctor, as the ministry also suggests. There is a wide variation between health enterprises in the extent to which a coordinator function has been established, and there is also a wide variation in the occupational groups involved. In addition, there's a little bit different how the coordinate role is defined. This mechanism is of the opinion that the Committee has led to the need for a contact doctor because the scheme was not clearly defined and not least was not entitled, as a contact doctor is. It is important that there is a clear role between the coordinator and the contact physician, and the Committee therefore supports the design of the Health Directorate as a guide to the roles. Basically, we can say that the contact doctor is the one with the medical responsibility, and the coordinator is the one with the practical responsibility for coordinating the services. A clear majority agreed that it is the individual health business that has to decide for itself which competence a coordinator should have. The coordinator must be trained as a health professional, but socionomists, child protection educators and other groups not authorised as health professionals may also be a coordinator. And it's important that hospitals have good information about the different roles and what they're going to do when it comes to providing the patient with better health care. The Committee therefore supports the question that each undertaking must in fact decide for itself how and who should have this coordinating role. And we're concerned that patients, whether they're being treated in public or being treated in a private non-profit or other private institution, should have both a coordinator and a contact doctor. Now we know that it is often the case that patients with long-term or chronic illness are often associated with public health, but it is also the case that private healthcare providers can have patients with long-term illness, so it is important that they also have this offer. This is a good day for patients. Chronic patients encounter many people on their way, not only in hospitals, but also in the community health service, so it is also important that the cooperation between specialist health services and community health services is good for patients with chronic illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e123	Prop. 125 L for 2014-2015 contains changes related to the current scheme of specialist health service coordinator and new scheme of specialist healthcare liaison – two related proposals. In addition, proposals are also made for the introduction of time limits for actions for decisions carried out by three different names, which I will not comment on in this post. We hear too many stories about sick people who have to deal with many different doctors and tell their medical history over and over again. It is a burden for seriously ill people and their relatives, for whom they should be saved. The previous government introduced the system of specialist health service coordinator with a view to better coordination of the provision and treatment of the patient. The coordinator of patients in need of long-term and coordinated services shall ensure the necessary follow-up of the patient and the preparation of individual levels. Proposals to make changes to this scheme have been made in the light of hospital feedback, from the specialist healthcare service, which shows that there are wide variations between health businesses in the roll-out of this scheme and the professionals who are and have been involved in the follow-up of the individual patient. It was the previous Council of State in the Ministry of Health and Welfare that sent the proposal to simplify this scheme to be consulted in June 2013. The consultation round also confirmed the appropriateness of changing the general rule that the coordinator must be a doctor, so that other health professionals can also carry out this task. The proposal that health professionals themselves should make the correct assessment of the competence of the coordinator was also widely supported in the consultation. Our health services have an incredible number of good professionals: help nurses, surgeons, infectious physicians, orthopaedic engineers, audiologists, oncologists, radiologists, cancer nurses, physiotherapists – yes, up to 30 specialized professionals. I think these guys know their trades. Each of them manages knowledge and skills that are built patiently through education, research and self-critical practices. But for serious illness, it's probably the experience in too many cases that they have to deal with very many, often in short moments at a time. Serious sick people must experience continuity when they come to long-term and often complex treatment in our hospitals. That's the healthcare we work for. The Working Party, like all parties, believes that a contact doctor can be involved in creating security and better communication. Many seriously ill people meet many different doctors and helpers from other professionals. This poses a risk that communication and information may become too poor, and failure of communication is a risk of injury to patients. The work of doctors in hospitals with seriously ill patients must be organised with continuity as a guiding principle. The patient has to meet the same doctor largely through the course of the disease. Only in this way can the two build mutual knowledge, openness, trust and security. The system of contact doctors in the public hospitals will strengthen the service and the patient's experience of it. We in the Workers' Party are not surprised that the privatisation reform can create a little curly for this scheme. This has to be sorted out by the government when it is the government that has actually created the challenge. An overall committee therefore asks the government to ensure that patients’ rights under the Special Health Service Act must apply to all patients, irrespective of where they receive their treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e140	The decisions we take on this matter today will mean a lot to patients and relatives. For the Progress Party, any action that strengthens the rights of both patients and their relatives is important. The Norwegian health system is absolutely fair in most areas. Whether you are poor or rich, grandchildren or great-grandfather, you will receive help from Norwegian hospitals. The challenge is not primarily here, not in this case. People who experience the heavy message that they have had a serious illness, such as: cancer, often gets many thoughts through your head at the same time: how will this go, what happens next, and not least what happens when? The government introduced the package course for a number of cancers. Many people have contacted me and expressed joy at receiving them in a more coherent and predictable way in our healthcare system. It is a victory for the Advancement Party, but above all a victory for patients and their relatives. But this isn't enough. One of the reasons why specialist healthcare professionals are now being contacted is that the same patient group should not have one-off doctors, as Per Fugelli called it in his meeting with the health services. When you are sick and weak and have to present yourself to a number of unknown people time and time again, it loses everyone for strength and profit. When persons who have a serious illness, injury or suffering over time are required to stay in a hospital, it may contribute to the patient’s safety to establish a certain level of knowledge of the doctor to treat them. In addition to the introduction of the right to a contact doctor, it is also important to point out the need for a coordinator, as proposed in the proposal. This coordinator shall have the practical responsibility for coordinating and coordinating services. This creates security for patients to experience an overall meeting with the healthcare system. The health fraction of the propulsion party has, inter alia: followed a younger patient associated with the Rikshospitalet. The family tells us that it is a relief to know that it is the same doctor and nurse who meet them from time to time. It's about safety in one too many other unfamiliar everyday life. When this communication between the patient and the doctor helps both patients and their relatives to make life easier when living with a serious illness, this shows that legislating the right to contact doctors is the right way to go. There are many patients of all ages who will get a better everyday life when they can not meet any one-time doctors, but get their own contact doctor as a firm stop. It is very much appreciated by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e157	The size should today change the laws so that there will be a statutory obligation to appoint a contact doctor. After all, a former legal obligation for a coordinator changes, removing the general rule that it should be a doctor. This statutory obligation to appoint a coordinator came in January 2012, replacing previous rules on a patient-responsible doctor. There has been no lack of legal duties and courts. For several years, health professionals have had a duty to ensure that patients with a long need for medical follow-up in hospitals have a responsible doctor or coordinator to stick to. When converted from a patient-responsible doctor to a coordinator in 2012, open one so that this person did not need to be a doctor, but there has been no significant improvement in the services. Now removes the main rule that coordinator should be a doctor, and the Center Party supports it. What is our concern is that there are still too many patients in need of a coordinator and for such services who are never informed that they have such a right and where healthcare professionals have not been able to do so. We thought it's been way too long. We have addressed this with the government before and asked for feedback on how many health professionals have introduced this right, without having received a response. The government doesn't seem to want to know about it either. We believe that this has been a service that has been known, and that all healthcare professionals should have an offer of coordinator during 2016. The Central Party and the Socialist Left propose that ‘all healthcare companies comply with the Special Health Service Act § 2-5(a) by the end of 2016 and establish a coordinator for all patients entitled to do so’. So, for a contact doctor in the specialist services. This shall apply to patients with serious illness, injury and suffering who need treatment or follow-up over time. We support the intention behind it, and we support the proposal. It involves both an obligation to give and a right to get. What is the discussion is that this with serious illness and condition is not specified. It states that it shall be decided on the basis of an objective and professional assessment. In addition, the Directorate-General for Health shall develop a guide to define the criteria for the diagnosis or patients for which it is natural for it to apply. It's a little bit uncertain. I think a part can get confused about what a coordinator is, and what a contact person is, so you have to see how this is actually being fulfilled. Then I see that there have been multiples for something that the Center Party has brought up. I was quite surprised when the government said in the message that the right to have a contact person should not apply, for example. in connection with the free choice of treatment, that one could not impose it on the private. I think it has to be that a patient has a need, has a right to get a contact doctor – that is, a patient with a need has to have a contact doctor whether it's before the public or the private. I'm very glad that the committee has come to an end about that. Finally, whether a contact doctor should be a medical doctor or a treating doctor: a doctor opens here so that the contact doctor does not need to be the treating doctor. The centre has clarified in notes that one must work for the same doctor as the treating doctor, who is a medical doctor and a contact doctor. Otherwise, it can get you too many leagues to stick to. We support the promise, but we've made it clear that the intention must be that it's the same doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e172	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e175	For someone who gets seriously ill, it is not given that waiting room, referral, epicrisis, diagnosis or prescription is known. We take it for granted that it is. Especially when you have to deal with many people who have a specialised competence, being a patient becomes difficult. Per Fugelli — perhaps one of the most resource-intensive patients we have in Norway, and with long experience from the health care system — talked about the one-time doctor he met. When even such a resource is talking about a single-use doctor, it says something about the challenges we have in facilitating patient progression. ‘Packer sequence’ is another term we use when talking about healthcare today. It is an important part of the course of treatment. It is not the package that is important, it is the course that is important, and so the discussion about a contact doctor hears about it here. It is both dealing with the actors and the flow that is important. For patients with severe disease or injury in particular, it is important to feel well-kept throughout the patient course. Good care of the patient is also important for close relatives. Therefore, we think it is positive that the patient is appointed to a contact doctor. We know that seriously ill patients have to deal with a lot of people in health care. For some, it's also about psychiatry, and the fact that you can get a psychologist appointed instead of a doctor, we think we're right. In some cases, there is a closer and more appropriate professional than a doctor. As far as the coordinator is concerned, we haven't gotten there that we're discussing authorisation for socionomists, but the competence of the coordinators is very important. For the Left, we want to strengthen the debate about who the coordinators should be, and also the authorisation related to them, because there is an increasingly important part of patient safety in the process. I'm not going to go into that debate any further. I hear that the Workers' Party characterises free treatment choices as a privatisation reform. Now there are many private people who say that prices are not attractive. This means that the public is likely to be the big winner in terms of free choice of treatment. I do not want to discuss free treatment choices at those premises, but I believe that a contact doctor is also necessary for the private and non-profit actors. We are talking mainly about the ideals in Norway, there are very few commercial, private hospitals and health services in Norway, but that it should be the same rights and the same obligations throughout the chain, that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e188	It is an important matter The Storting treats today. The provision for a patient-responsible doctor and specialist healthcare coordinator has been in existence for several years. Nevertheless, many seriously ill patients experience that they have to deal with a large number of doctors and other health professionals, and that they have to tell their medical history over and over again. So the situation hasn't improved. It means, in my opinion, that the current legislation in this area is not accurate enough. I have great faith that the proposals put forward in this proposition will help to ensure patients' continuity and better experience in dealing with healthcare. There is a significant difference between what has been presented now and what the condition has been before. There I have to correct a manifest error in the representative Toppe's posts, when she talks about patients has also previously had the right to set up a contact doctor. That's wrong. Health companies have had an obligation in the past, but patients have no right. The significant new feature of this proposal is that it becomes a right for the individual patient. Under the current law, specialist health services have an obligation to appoint coordinator for patients in need of complex or long-term and coordinated services. As a general rule, the coordinator shall be a doctor. The coordinator's tasks include, but are not limited to: to have the practical responsibility for coordinating services so that the patient avoids unjustified waiting. We believe that this type of task can also be carried out by other health professionals. We now see examples of the coordinators who work with cancer patients in the course of a package, they're not doctors, but they're very important for the patient's course to work well. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal to replace the general rule that the specialist healthcare coordinator should be a doctor with a rule that it should be a healthcare professional. This change will make the coordinator system more accurate and make it easier for hospitals to fulfil the coordinator’s obligation. Per Fugelli has been referred to several times, and this law presented today could actually have been called ‘lex Fugelli’, because he has repeatedly pointed out the challenge for patients in response to the one-time doctors. I am therefore very pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal that healthcare companies should have an obligation to appoint a contact doctor for patients with serious illness, injury or suffering, who need treatment or follow-up of a certain duration, and not least that patients are now also entitled to a contact doctor. Feedback from the hearing bodies shows the need for more information and guidance on differences, responsibilities and tasks for the coordinator and contact doctor. The guide to be developed by the Directorate-General for Health will provide information on this. The guide will also provide information on the types of patients to be covered by the contact medical system. It is not possible or appropriate to regulate this in detail in a legal text. The proposal is based on an individual assessment of each case. Among other things, a professional assessment must be made as to whether the condition would lead to a risk of severe disability or disability, loss of important body functions or senses or any risk of early death. I have noticed that a joint committee has proposed a request decision, which reads: ‘The government is asking for patient rights under the Special Health Services Act, such as the right to appoint a coordinator and a contact doctor, to apply irrespective of where the patient is being treated.’ I refer to the fact that patient rights are regulated by the Patient and User Rights Act, and that the system of coordinator is not a right for patients. With this in mind, I believe that the intention of the proposal is that patients should also be appointed a contact doctor when they receive health care from private hospital providers/health institutions. I want to make sure that this is followed up in an appropriate way. I have also noticed that the members of the Central Party and the Socialist Left have underlined that healthcare companies have to cut the patient offer in many places and that the introduction of contact doctors will require new administrative procedures and work tasks. The government has suggested that the introduction of contact doctors is primarily about better organisation of services. Although the scheme may lead to more administration at the beginning, I am fully convinced that the scheme will also provide better patient treatment and information to patients and thus also better resource use. It is also the experience we have after organizing cancer treatment as a package. The Proposition also proposes to introduce a six-month period for actions for decisions taken by the complainant for treatment abroad, in the Preimplantation Diagnosis Study and the State Health Care Professional Study. I am pleased that this proposal has also been supported by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e219	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e222	The Government does not consider it appropriate that the new legislative proposal obliges private institutions to appoint a contact physician and justifies the fact that the obligation to appoint a contact doctor is limited to ‘treatment or follow-up from the specialist healthcare service of a certain duration’. I think these are good arguments for that position, and follow it far on the way. However, some of the criticisms that are directed towards the reform of free treatment options are, of course, this two-way, and that the offers that can then be obtained from private individuals will not be particularly suitable for patients who need long, heavy and long-term treatment in hospitals. My question to the Council of State is, how do you evaluate this dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e230	I don't see this as a very big dilemma. The patient’s rights are linked to the Patient Rights Act. It's going to apply anyway. In the case of seriously ill patients, private individuals in Norway participate largely in part of the course, and it is important that the patient has his/her contact doctor in the public health system, and it is also not appropriate to require that the contact doctor should always be the treating physician. The treating physician today in the healthcare system will often vary at different times in the patient’s course. Then it is important, precisely for that reason, that the patient has the right to have a contact doctor to deal with, who is responsible for maintaining contact with the patient in terms of medical conditions, and that in many cases there is also a coordinator who coordinates the services for the patient. So here I have the impression that one is trying to blow up a problem that is really very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e237	It's not the intention of the undersigned to inflate anything. However, with regard to the reform of free treatment options, the government has also announced that drug use and psychiatry are to be phased in first, a patient group that just needs continuity — help and treatment over time. Then the treatment institutions that are privately run, whether they are ideal or commercial, I'm not going to comment here, have responded that pricing so far for these services leads to a turn against more 24-hour treatment and more insertions instead of day care and outpatient clinic, which is a common goal, and which is the professional development. How is the right that the Council of State argues well and heavily for in its first response, as important for the patient, when one is to receive these long-term treatment services from an actor other than public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e244	The patient's rights apply wherever the patient is treated, so it's answered in the bill. With regard to pricing in the free choice of treatment, I think it is wise for the Health Directorate to set the prices, in line with the leaders decided by the Stortinge, that prices should be set below what is general tender prices, precisely because we do not have the intention that private operators should be able to find it more lucratively not to submit tenders or to participate in the free choice of treatment system. I would believe that the Workers' Party also agrees that it is not a good idea to spend more money than is necessary to get good health care. In terms of the type of treatment the patient should receive, it is the referral that will decide, and in terms of drug use and mental health, it is often decided by public health admission teams. However, once you have been granted the right to daily treatment, e.g. in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, I believe it is beneficial for the patient to be able to choose between different private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e253	I want to ask for a coordinator and not for a contact person. I know that the Council of State was very concerned that the hospitals had not introduced this when the Council of State was in opposition. In June 2013, opposition politician Bent Höie had an interview in which he asked then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre if he could tell how many health professionals had implemented the offer of the coordinator. He had asked the Minister of Health earlier and had not received an answer to that question. I would like to ask the Council of State now: how many health professionals have introduced the coordinator, and how long do the Council of State possibly think hospitals can be allowed to use this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e260	All healthcare providers have now introduced the cancer patients coordinator as a follow-up to the introduction of the cancer package pathway. I also believe that the bill that Stortinget is dealing with today makes it easier to get these arrangements in place throughout these patients, because one clears up the scheme that was before, where the general rule was that it should be a doctor. It turns out that it has not worked, although this has been a legal requirement for a very long time. Now we clean this up, so the coordinator doesn't have to be a doctor. It is often very reasonable that a nurse is the coordinator of a patient course. Then we introduce both a right and an obligation to have contact doctors, and these roles become more distinct. This is what we think should help to address both concerns, namely that patients receive more coordinated services, while at the same time getting better communication with their contact physician on medical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e269	I notice that the Council of State says that he believes that it will contribute to more coordinated services. This has been so important for Stortinget that the obligation to create a coordinator has been statutory in the specialist health services law. The cancer patients now have their coordinator, and there will be a contact doctor for those with serious diseases, but this will not apply to those who need long-term follow-up defined to have a coordinator. I would like to ask again: does it not seem to the Council of State that it is important that the coordinator comes in immediately, that has after all been in law for a long time? And why can he not tell us that this will be introduced in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e276	If I had been satisfied with the state of things, I would not have promoted this proposition. My answer to the question is the proposition, and I am very happy that the Storting joins it and clears up in these circumstances, for the current legislation, which, as Kjersti Toppe rightly points out, has not worked, we have to clean up. Of course, when this law comes into force, I expect health companies to comply with the laws and regulations. As my predecessor as Health Minister from the Right said when he visited the hospitals and consistently asked the question whether they had done this, and got the answer that they were in the process: if I am stopped by the police when I run in the 70 in the 50's and answer them that I am in the process of getting down to 50, it will not be accepted. Of course, the fact that one does not relate to the law is not acceptable and will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e310	As rapporteur, I would like to make a few brief comments on these matters. The proposed Regulation regulates different aspects of the Internal Market Information System, IMI. IMI has so far operated on an illegal basis and, in order to facilitate a forward-looking system facilitating interaction between EEA authorities, the European Commission has promoted a proposal for an IMI Regulation. The European Commission’s proposals were sent to be consulted, with a deadline for consultation on 30 November 2011, and the feedback has been largely positive. The Committee has also noted that experience with IMI from a Norwegian point of view has been good. The introduction of the regulation requires a legislative amendment and a unanimous committee is in favour of the Storting adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e319	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e333	No one has asked for the floor. Then Stortinget takes a break until noon. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 10:41. ---- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e352	The President will first draw attention to the fact that, due to the continuing negotiations between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties on the budget – if anyone is in doubt about it – it is clear that it is not possible for the Financial Committee to give the financial position by the deadline of 20 November in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinget depart from the provisions of the third paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget no later than 20 November. Does anyone ask for a word?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e357	I really don't have anything to postpone and object to the conclusion, because that's an actual description of the situation we're in. But I want on behalf, I think, of those of us who are not in budgetary negotiations, but who are waiting for a result that enables us to do our duty as elected representatives, namely to illuminate our alternative, to express a strong regret over these postponements. This was supposed to be done on Monday, and the deadline was Tuesday, and we now have Thursday afternoon without knowing what the outcome would be. It was an intention of this government to listen more to what is happening in Stortinget and listen to the opposition. Here I believe that we are in a situation that is regrettable, and I would like to have said that from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e364	Several have not asked for the word. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and is therefore deemed to have been adopted. The budget shall continue to examine matters on agenda No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e382	The President has reason to believe that the Christian People's Party will present a proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e385	It seemed that the arrow pointed to the undersigned, so on behalf of the Christian People's Party I presented the following proposal for a law remark: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: In Section 76, second paragraph and third sentence, Romans should be presumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may also not instruct the Foreign Affairs Department to interpret or execute judgment. The Ministry may instruct on the prioritisation of matters.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e401	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal he referred to, which is a law note that the law decision is not accepted and with a text below. The next speaker is the representative Ola Elvestuen, then the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen. Snorre Serigstad Valen has to wait a bit, there's a ranking here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e406	The left voted against giving instruction authority to the foreign student at the first reading, and will therefore vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e411	The words must be. Only cards about process and voting. In line with what is common practice, SV does not take up its opposition to the legislative changes we voted against last Monday in this second legislative procedure. We take it for granted that all the parties here in the Chamber agree that it is common practice and must not be interpreted as new support for the legislative changes. Then I have to add that it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party has now changed its view of the law changes associated with UNE. Since the Christian People's Party has actually changed its position since Monday, we think it is neat that the Christian People's Party makes it clear, and SV will vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Then there is reason just to briefly remember that such confusion would have been avoided if the Storting had adopted an expeditious committee procedure. The matter had not to be dealt with urgently in Stortinget because the Storting itself had sold, but because the government spent several weeks agreeing with itself. It is unfortunate that the government's lack of enforcement power, and the consequent achievement that has taken place in the case, have been at the expense of the Stortingen's ability to deal with important legislative changes in a tidy manner. A sign of good leadership is to show calmness and determination. There should be several of the parties here in the house thinking carefully, because we will undoubtedly have to face more immediate challenges in the years to come, and I'm a little sure of how both we and society around us will look at the events of the harvest in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e422	This decision from Monday, which is now before the second reading, is an example of this. We in the Greens agree that a good, fair and predictable policy is urgently needed to ensure that, as far as possible, the people in need of protection are the ones seeking asylum in Norway. However, we believe that the government is now misusing the pressured situation to introduce far-reaching, intrusive measures that should have been far better explored, professionally justified and discussed, even though, fortunately, the legislative changes are now only temporary. We should have more respect for the Storting and for the great effects that these proposals can have on many people's prospects than I think the Stortinget has shown in recent days. This is about people who are in a vulnerable situation. The Greens voted against the amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act, which open up an extended instruction authority to the Foreign Affairs Department, on Monday. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party has turned around in this matter since then, and we are going to support the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We need more independence in the appeal body for asylum seekers, not less. It is precisely at times when, where governments need to tighten up, it may be tempting to put human rights under pressure. And it's just in times like this that we have to be sure that we have an independent review board for the right of individuals to independently process their application for protection from war and persecution. The proposal to open up UN policy governance is also not an action that needs to be pursued. The fact that we now stand here three days after the first treatment and at least one party has already changed its mind, in itself shows that this is going very quickly. Maybe another game would have turned around, if we had waited three more days. The legal security of asylum seekers is being attacked in a hurry, and the Stortinget has obviously not been summed up. Even though I'm alone in my party group, there's no doubt that there's a lot of discussion going on in parties other than ours. It is not at all that all the representatives of big business – as I have seen it – share the majority’s views in their own parties on the constraints that the Stortinget is now doing at full speed, and I think that we should take it seriously. The discussion both within the parties and between the party groups is precisely the foundation for making good decisions when the situation requires a little bit extra of us. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Greens want to contribute to a most constructive and good discussion on how Norway can cope with the changing refugee situation. But we have noticed that in the election campaign this year, when we discussed the refugee crisis, we talked about the refugee crisis. In the public debate over the last few weeks, we have been given the impression that the refugee crisis has become Norway’s crisis – a border crisis, an immigrant crisis. This is now used as a justification for serious restrictions on the legal certainty of asylum seekers. Unfortunately, the Greens cannot support the Greens. Norway is not in crisis. If we take the time to think about it, we'll avoid it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e439	I would like to clarify something for the Stortinget: the Christian People's Party makes a proposal on Monday that this particular issue, with the instruction of UNE, should be sent to committee. Our proposal came Monday because we thought it was a very fundamental decision, and because it was not as urgent to look at that point as the other points in the laws that were passed in the first reading on Monday. That is the proposal. Then the Christian People's Party chose to vote for the law change on Monday. We chose to ask questions to the department and go closer to it. We have received answers from the department, but we do not seem to respond so confident that we can support the proposal today. So we have the same idea about the question. I think it shows the need that that very part of the bill should have been sent to committee, but that it is not done, I respect. Today, we are dealing with measures to address the authorities of Storskog and to ensure better control and overview of those who are coming to seek asylum. The situation in Storskog is demanding because some of the people who come do not have a real need for protection. We are facing the greatest refugee disaster since the Second World War. Man flees from war and misery. Many of those who come to Norway now come because they have a real need for protection. The tightening-up we adopt today is precisely to ensure that we have the capacity to help those who have a real need for protection, in a good and defenceable way. That is why we really support five of the points in the bill, but the question of instruction I think we should be given a more thorough treatment in Stortinget. But when we don't get a sense that it's urgent and right, well, we say exactly what we said on Monday, but this time we have to naturally vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Then the Storting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e457	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that by the end of 2016 all healthcare companies comply with the Special Health Services Act § 2-5(a) and establish a coordinator for all patients entitled to do so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e614	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e624	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e701	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e711	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e813	This is the second time that the law has been dealt with and applies to Act No. 5th@item: inlistbox During the debate, the representative Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal for a legislative remark on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Roman numerals In the second and third sentences of Section 76, the following sentence is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry cannot instruct the Foreigner on interpretation of the law or the exercise of discretion. The Ministry may instruct on the prioritisation of matters.’;» According to the third paragraph of Section 42 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal was submitted after the deadline, when it was only delivered at 1 p.m. 12:45 today. However, the President will propose that the Storting should take the proposal up to voting time. No one has spoken against it, and we then take up the proposal for voting. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e844	The rule of law 5 has thus been rejected, and the Bill of the Stortinge has been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-19.ana.ud1259e884	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
