ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e72	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative Sylvi Graham on leave in the days of 1 and 2 June and from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt on leave on Monday 1 June – both to attend the COSAC meeting in Riga from the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kristian Norheim, Knut Storberget and Bengt Morten Wenstøb on leave in the days of 1 and 2 June – all to participate in meetings of the Nordic Council of Riga from the representative Jenny Klinge on leave in the period from 1 June to 12 June and from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik and Ingenderd Schou on leave on Monday 1 June – all to participate in the strategic crisis management course at the Royal College of the Defence from the Workers' Party on leave in the time of the representative Jonas Gahr Støre Monday 1 June and on behalf of the representative Anette Trettebergstägen Monday and Tuesday, 1 and 2 June – both to participate in the EAT Forum in the Stockholm Forum from the Swedish Labour Party on 2nd plenary session on the application of 10th June and the Permition of the application of June 1s from 1s from 1s from June to June and the European Parliament on Monday 1s from 1s and the 1s of 1s of the 1s of 1s and the European Parliament of the 1s of the 1s of the 1s of June 1s and 2 June to the 1s of the European Parliament These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Eastfold County, Tone Damsleth, there is an application for a waiver from the Stortinget on 1 and 2 June due to disease On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Thore Vestby and Are HealthFor Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen and Thor LillehovdeFor Møre and Romsdal County: Mette Hanekamhaug, Steinar Reiten and Geir Inge LienFor Oslo: Prableen KaurFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunhild Alis Berge Stange For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes AmundsenFor South Trondelag County: Lill Hariet SandauneFor Eastfold County: Tage Pettersen and Simen Nord
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e198	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e212	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e223	I would like to thank the Minister for a wide-ranging presentation on key challenges for Europe – and for us – in our relationship with EU cooperation. Councils of State started in defence and security policy: Russia's annexation of Crimea and support for the rebels in Ukraine, the importance of the integration of Balkan countries into EU cooperation and a stronger anchor in democracy and the principles of the rule of law. This is also important for Norway, and therefore we are also actively involved in these parts of EU cooperation as far as we can. However, I would like to start in another situation that can be a serious threat to stability, democracy and the structures of cooperation in our part of the world, namely the lack of economic growth, high levels of unemployment – especially for young people in several of the countries – social unrest, the confusion of hope and faith in the future. Russia's assault in Ukraine is being met with extensive sanctions. Fear in several countries that have a completely different experience with Russia as a neighbour from what we ourselves have is to be taken seriously. Nevertheless, we must not lose sight of the fact that these countries too are now anchored in NATO, and that the military power relationship between NATO countries and Russia is so definitely in our favor. Eight out of ten countries with the largest defence budgets are on our team. We must not let fear and unrest over these tangible realities overwhelm us. But the aftermath of the financial crisis is far from over. The crisis has most recently taken place in the real economy. Although economic growth in the euro area was on the increase last year and may be slightly better this year, unemployment remains high in many of the countries: in the EU as a whole, the youth unemployment rate of 17 p.m. is even more severe. on average, over 32 pst. in Spain and Croatia and 45 pst. in Greece. A whole generation can be lost to work. It is a threat to democratic stability, a ground for populism, as we saw at the elections in Greece, and – even more seriously – extremism. The end of Greece’s debt problems is uncertain for the country and for cooperation. The United Kingdom’s path towards referendums on membership will also create uncertainty in cooperation and take political attention and energy from tasks that could help to help countries out of economic misery. I will not, as the Left's parliamentary leader did in the Question Time for some time, ask the Council of State to stop Cameron. The European Minister has just enough a broad portfolio and sometimes creates great expectations for what he is going to achieve, but I hope that his responsibility will not go far enough. I believe that the economic challenges, unemployment and social unrest are the key challenges now for EU cooperation and therefore for Europe. It could deserve a bigger place in the presentation. Governments are right that in several countries there is still a need to increase productivity, structural changes and investment in research and infrastructure, but it is also necessary to shift economic policies and stimulate growth rather than new cuts. The Juncker Plan, which will help the countries in their efforts, must be more than a new paper tiger. But to say, as the Council of State did in its statement, that ‘here we see again common challenges between Norway and the rest of Europe’, I think it will be something separate for most politicians in Europe. Norway remains in a unique position. The transition that has become the government's mantra, we have a very good experience with it. We have been doing this in Norway quite so continuously for decades, both in business and in the public sector. It is not a lack of adaptability that is the greatest threat to the soundness of our welfare model. It is the government’s main priority — tax cuts — that poses the threat, because it points to a situation that has long marked some of our European neighbours, namely a lack of recognition that we have to pay for the public welfare we grant, through taxes and taxes. The Council of State concerned the EU's strategy for a digital internal market. On Tuesday this week we had a meeting with the European Parliamentary Jörg Leichtfried, who attended the government conference on the subject. The impression he gave us was that the Commission will be following up quite quickly in important areas such as roaming, ego blocking and privacy. At the meeting of the European Committee on 28 April, where the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner explained this, a government announcement was made. It should come quickly to provide the Stortinget with a thorough basis for discussing and shaping Norwegian positions on the EU's work in this important, comprehensive and demanding area. Let me also remind the Council of State of the call I went to the European Committee on 28 April, namely the follow-up of the Data Storage Directive by the government that disappeared. The Prime Minister said here in the Chamber that the government would now review the judgment of the German Constitutional Court and assess whether the legal rules drawn up in the context of the implementation of the Directive should be adjusted in the light of the judgment. It is beginning to be quite a long time ago, and in the meantime we have legislation on this demanding and sensitive field that does not adequately regulate the storage, storage and deletion of traffic data by companies. When will the government come back to Stortinget, as the Prime Minister has promised? The Council of State acknowledges in the statement that the inclusion of new legislation is too slow here with us. Here the Council of State was early out with high ambitions. We have supported that, because a common regulatory framework is only common when implemented in all countries. But reality is often contradictory, and the last overview pointed the wrong way in terms of what the government itself is dealing with, implementation after new rules have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It is good that the government sets itself higher targets. Then we'll see if the promised implementation force is in line with the ambitions of the next measurement. It is worrying that the negotiations on new EEA funds are under way. The government has our support in rejecting unreasonable demands for increases that this time cannot be justified either by enlargement or by a similar increase in the EU's own efforts in this area. That the government requires better market access for fish is good and important, not least in the light of a possible TTIP agreement. One of its challenges could be increased competition for the fisheries industry in the European market from US competitors. And then the Article 19 negotiations: I just want to repeat that we require close contact with the Storting on the design of Norwegian positions when EU demands come to the table. The cheese is getting old, but I should not be surprised if it is still in the EU's debt crisis. I agree with the Council of States that it is in our interest to be part of a common European labour market, as we have been part of a common Nordic labour market since the 1950s. Of course, it will also meet different challenges. This time, the Council of State drew up the debate on so-called social security tourism in several countries. We look forward to the government's big message on the topic, but we must not let go of the principle that the rights attached to participation must apply to everyone. Nor should we forget that these have been arrangements that have included all labour immigrants from our Nordic neighbouring countries since the 1950s, without anyone raising this as a serious problem, and that in Nordic cooperation we are working hard to remove all sorts of obstacles for people who want to live across the Nordic region either as individuals or as entrepreneurs. We also need to include this in these assessments, which we are looking forward to taking place on a revised basis in the context of the Government's announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e265	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of States for a very good and thorough account of a wide range of current issues in European policy, areas where all the countries of Europe, despite their differences, are in a destiny. From the right, we will get to grips with this through a series of contributions to the debate. The European policy of the Government rests on several pillars and the EEA Agreement is the pillar. The main objective is to ensure that Norwegian interests are best served in the broadest sense and also to provide good conditions of competition for business. Europe needs to renew economic progress and growth. The Norwegian economy is also dependent on that. The Council of State initially discussed how the Norwegian economy should move from specialty to conversion and how the government equips Norway for the future by investing in innovation and competitiveness in business. But if we are to succeed at home, we also depend on Europe to do well, and the countries of the European Union to regain their growth and stability. Norway is not an island in Europe, but a part of Europe, although we are not a member of the EU. The European countries are our close neighbours, friends, allies and important trading partners. As a result, Norwegian foreign policy in Europe begins, and as a result, from the first day on, the government has focused on taking Norwegian European policies out of rest and moving into an active mode of action. It involves being proactive, closer dialogue, faster entering into processes and contributing to important issues of relevance to Norway. Formal and informal forums are important. In practice, over the last two years, Norway has been in a much closer interaction and dialogue with the EU system than before, we gain recognition for it, and it benefits us today in a situation where conditions in Europe have partially changed dramatically only since the government joined in the autumn of 2013. Norway has safety challenges that coincide with the EU. It is worth noting that the Council of State in its presentation spent a lot of time on the EU as a defence and security policy actor and on the cooperation between Norway and the EU in security policy. Since 2013, the European Council has had a common defence and security policy on the agenda and since that time the theme has been updated to a degree few would have foreseen. After 25 years of tough weather and mutual trust building between East and West in Europe, we are now in a period of challenge to stability and security on several levels. Ukraine’s clear choice to move towards Europe is not respected by the large neighbouring country in the east. During the last year, Russia has committed aggressive acts and violations of international law in Crimea and the rest of Ukraine. We have experienced terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe by extreme fundamentalist terrorist groups, and the threat of terrorism remains real. In meeting with Russian aggression, we have seen a demonstration of the impact of a combination of NATO's sedation measures and the collective defence of the Member States on the one hand and the EU's political and economic toolbox as sanctions and restrictive measures on the other, where Norway has co-existed with the EU. Ukraine and the other Eastern Partnership countries, Moldova and Georgia, have concluded association and free trade agreements from June 2014 and countries have been assured that the EU will strengthen and continue assistance and cooperation on political, economic and social reforms, which Norway also participates in. Turkey and the countries of the Western Balkans continue to aim to become members of the EU. The talks with Serbia just started again, and it's joyous. Given the history of this region, there is every reason to continue the integration work. At the same time, we must be vigilant and closely monitor developments in the region. In the case of other countries in Europe which are in a more undemocratic direction, the development of Hungary and Macedonia in particular is worrying, and unfortunately this situation is so that instability can easily be spread to neighbouring countries. As the Council of State stated in its statement, developments in Ukraine will be a test piece and will be decisive for the credibility of European cooperation. Let us hope that the package of measures launched by the Prime Minister earlier this year during a visit to Ukraine will over time support the reform work in that country. It is reassuring when the Council of State emphasises that the government takes care of Norwegian interests through ongoing security policy dialogue with the EU, through frequent meetings and discussions both at the level of office and at the political level, but also through increased defence cooperation, formally through participation in EU battle groups, in civil and military operations and in cooperation with the EU Defence Agency, EDA, where Norway is among the largest contributors in research and development. The EU is now intensifying its efforts to address the internal terrorist threat through a new Security Agenda 2015-2020. The strategy is based on actions in individual countries and on efforts at EU level to prevent terrorism, combat radicalisation, organised crime and cybercrime. These are actions that Norway can model and that may be useful in our own work against the same threats. The fact that the EU, in addition to NATO, has become one of the most important areas in which defence and security policies are debated and developed is questionable. Enhanced cooperation in defence and security policy in Europe will be the subject of the June summit. It meets with excitement. Nevertheless, Norway must, on its own and in cooperation with the EU and NATO, strengthen our own defence capabilities and take greater responsibility for our own security. We remember Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg's visit to the White House on Tuesday this week. There President Obama stressed that NATO is still the cornerstone of the United States, not only in terms of transatlantic security, but also in terms of global security. These are reassuring statements from our important ally in the West. The government is basing our relationship with the EU on the EEA Agreement. The fact that the government is doing a good job of complying with this agreement and reducing the delay in the implementation of legal acts is crucial for Norwegian interests. The agreement is of particular importance for Norway, providing Norwegian enterprises with access to a market of 500 million people. Two thirds of our trade is with the EU. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU. If we keep oil and gas outside, it equals 70 pst. of exports of goods and 50 pst. of Norwegian exports of services. As an integral part of the follow-up work to the EEA Agreement, Norway participates in 26 EU agencies and 20 EU programmes. And we have implemented over 10,000 legal acts in Norwegian law. This is how the EEA Agreement is a pillar of the value creation and well-being here to countries. It is therefore with considerable amazement that some people in this room also want to put this agreement into play, with the dramatic consequences it could have for Norwegian working life and well-being. The EEA Agreement is our main protection in a tough global competitive environment. Without this agreement, Norway will be marginalised in relation to our most important market in Europe and will remain alone in a very vulnerable position in a market with strong global players. Being in such a situation I think very few in Norwegian business and Norwegian export industries will appreciate it. Therefore, we need to rehabilitate and further develop the EEA Agreement and ensure the best possible framework conditions for Norwegian business. The negotiations on the level of EEA funds between 2014 and 2019, Norway’s solidarity contribution to economic and social cohesion in the EEA area, are now one year in overtime. The EU demand has been unrealistically high and too high for Norway to accept it. However, during the last meeting of the EEA Council, last week, the Helgesen State Council presented an enhanced offer, with which negotiations have shifted from level of office to level of policy. The distance between the parties is still high, but it is hoped that Norway’s last negotiating event will give new impetus to the process. In particular, I would like to express the tension associated with whether we can obtain market access for fish. In a short time, the government will present two key and EU-relevant key messages — one on trade and globalisation and one on the export of social security benefits. Both of these will be interesting in the light of today's debate and set the course forward in strategically important policy areas for Norway. The importance of strengthening our links with Europe and those closest to us internationally cannot be overestimated. For Norway, it will not be possible to shape what is happening around us. We will be involved in shaping the development of an active international commitment, especially in the European political community. In an uncertain and complex security policy situation, we can remind each other that the EU was formed as a peace project. Perhaps it will just be as the peacemaker of the European Union will show its greatest strength and fulfill its perhaps most important mission in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e311	First, I would like to thank the State Council of Vidar Helgesen for a good enough and comprehensive presentation on key EEA and EU-related issues. Even I will be generous enough to admit that I am not completely impartial, but I still believe that the statement bears the mark that the government was serious when it announced a much more active European policy in the government platform. Honor the councillor of Helgesen and the rest of the government for this. Although Norway is not a member of the EU, we are very closely linked through the EEA Agreement and through the many other agreements we have with the EU. There is no debate on Norwegian membership of the EU today in Norway. Nevertheless, there are a number of EU-related debates. In our most important European allies, in the United Kingdom, there has just been a parliamentary election, with perhaps the result coming unexpectedly on many. The Conservatives secured a majority alone, which I was very pleased with, and there will be negotiations with the EU, with a subsequent referendum in 2017. In 1982, The Economist recognised the 25th anniversary of what is today the EU by printing a picture of a tomb on the front page. Many have also later predicted the death of EU cooperation, especially in the event of crises, but it turns out that it is rather in such a crisis that cooperation is actually strengthened and not weakened. In fact, there I believe that the so-called EU creators may also help to get back on track in the EU. I believe the future of the EU project depends on at least two things. One is that cooperation must have relevance to the citizens it embraces, and not just to the politicians and bureaucrats it benefits. The second is that cooperation must deliver in at least two important areas, both of which have to do with security – security of importance to growth and jobs and security of importance to the common front against those or those at risk from the outside. A number of UK issues are related to the EU, give us good feedback here in Norway, whether on issues related to bureaucracy, power distribution and self-determination, or on issues related to immigration and social security tourism. The same issues are also raised in more EU countries than the United Kingdom. From the Norwegian side, we should be clear that these are questions that we too should have wanted better answers to than those that are leading from the European Union today. Having followed the debate of the United Kingdom versus the EU over time, I am in fact surprised that the European Union has shown no greater ability to show some humility or at least to meet the British This brings me to the next topic I would like to say a few words about, the security policy situation in Europe. If there is something more than something that has made both European cohesion and gathering even more relevant again, there are currently safety challenges in Europe. A short time ago, I attended the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting in the European Parliament and discussed defence and security policies with colleagues from the European Parliament and the national parliaments. In such debates — and with that discussion in mind in the United Kingdom — it is absolutely necessary to recall that the United Kingdom is the most important and largest military force among EU countries. Without the United Kingdom on the team, the perception of the EU as a relevant security policy actor will quickly fade away. In the new security policy situation in Europe, Norway has also served to keep the United Kingdom at the table when important decisions are taken by the EU, not least in terms of the security policy dimension. We are now in a particularly challenging security policy situation in Europe following Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine. Putin is at risk of ending what he might least have wanted, namely increased cohesion and integration in Europe. Russia’s acts of international law and use of force in Ukraine have triggered a serious security policy situation. It also has clear implications for Norway’s relationship with Russia. On the Norwegian side, there must be no doubt that we are with our closest allies and partners both in the analysis of what caused the crisis and in the condemnation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Nor should there be any doubt that this has led to a difficult situation of security policy, which can still only be solved politically, not militarily. Finally, it is important to remember that Norway has historically had a good and constructive relationship with Russia, that what can continue through cooperation continues, and that we are the first to be ready to further develop and strengthen the neighbourhood and cooperation around common challenges if Russia decides to adjust the course. Such normalisation will require Russia to change its line, respect international law, respect the Minsk agreements and contribute to trust building. Consequently, Russia’s further actions are crucial for how cooperation can be achieved. It goes without saying that cooperation on security policy and defence policy must be given priority. But it also needs to work on a common energy policy, which, not least, guarantees energy security in a completely different way than before. In addition, there are ongoing negotiations on TTIP between the United States and the EU. As they come forward, the EU and the United States will have established the world's most remote free trade area. We do not yet know what kind of consequences such an agreement will have if it comes to a final conclusion in port. The only thing we know is that it will have consequences, including for Norway. Norway is going to stay as close as we can to follow these negotiations, says itself. Not only will such an agreement have major commercial policy implications, it will also bind Europe and the United States together in such a way that it produces results in areas other than those that can be counted in ringing coins One of the pillars of EU cooperation is the principle of free movement. It must be quite clear that the starting point here is, not least, a free movement across borders with work and not welfare benefits for the eye. The Progress Party agrees that labour immigration from other EEA countries as a whole is positive, including for Norway. But – and there is one but here: it has followed a lot in the wake of this, and so we should also follow the debate on so-called welfare tourism, as one has in the United Kingdom, and as one also has it in Denmark. Therefore, I am very pleased that the government takes seriously the issues of welfare tourism and that one will look into the possibility of limiting social security exports. European policy is as much foreign policy as domestic policy – perhaps even more domestic policy in recent years than foreign policy has been. Not only in this room, but in municipal government halls and city government halls around the country, there is hardly one day going on without discussing an EU or EEA-related issue. The EU has become mature and has taken on its role in security and foreign policy. If you remember at the beginning of the bloody Balkan wars – and this year it is 20 years since the end of the bloodiest of them all, namely the war in Bosnia – the EU did not behave very mature and not very united. Europe was shattered, Europe was a little on. Now we see a completely different role; we see that the EU has taken responsibility as a security policy actor. While NATO has become more important recently, the EU has also become more important. We also have to take that into account in Norway. The EEA is very important for Norwegian industry and business, and we will continue to develop our relationship with the EU through the EEA and the other agreements. It is our biggest trading partners who are EU Member States, and we must also take that on board. But we have to be in an active European policy, and it also means being willing to make demands, to raise our voice when you have to raise your voice. That's exactly what I perceive that the Council of State Helgesen and this government are actually willing to do, and I hope that way they will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e339	First, I would like to thank Mr Helgesen for a day-to-day and good report. In today's situation, it is quite natural for the European Minister to pay great attention to how we can do more to meet the major challenge in the Mediterranean. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the EU has not managed the wave of boat refugees in a satisfactory way. It is a tragedy that occurs in what the Romans call Mare Nostrum – our sea. Migration challenges are also something we in Norway have to take co-responsibility to solve. We can be proud of the way Norwegian ships have followed up good marine ethics and frightened thousands of lives. As a maritime nation, we literally sail in the middle of that challenge. It is also important that Norway, vis-à-vis the EU and Schengen cooperation, clearly indicate that EU countries need to do more, and that Norway will make greater efforts. That is why we are using a vessel for the Triton operation, and the mandate for this operation needs to be strengthened, so that search and rescue are more active in the areas where the boat refugees are. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will support the agreement reached with Greece to redeploy some EEA funds to support the creation of a reception centre on the island of Lesvos. Today's capacity is far too poor. This will be a requested and useful Norwegian contribution. As you know, there are already negotiations here in Stortinget on how Norway can contribute more to helping refugees from the war in Syria, both in the neighbourhoods and by allowing others to accept Norway. So I'm not going to go closer to this, but just stress how important it is for Norway to show solidarity. The human smugglers who send desperate refugees to the Mediterranean on fragile craft, run with cynical crime. There is every reason to cooperate internationally to stop this criminal activity. Active police cooperation is a possibility. When the EU now discusses a military action, I would like to stress the need for such actions to be carried out in accordance with international law. It is good that the Minister also stresses this. Several of the criminal networks in North Africa are ‘linked up’ to terrorist groups. Several terrorist groups also use crime to finance their actions. In this sense, there may be a connection between what's happening there, and terrorist threats we must also face on our continent in Europe. The terrorist attack in Paris and Copenhagen this winter shows that the threat from Islamist groups is real. He must meet with both measures for better integration, active prevention and resolute police action to stop attacks. In this process, the Minister was also concerned about the economic situation in Europe. It is a reflection that, while the US is experiencing significant economic growth and employment growth, the EU is striving, and not least the eurozone, to speed up the economy again. This is probably an expression of the failure of the euro. Many people have paid dearly for this. Growth in the countries in crisis in southern Europe is now increasingly being stimulated. The European Minister asked far more questions than it is possible for me to comment in a few minutes, but much of what he said is broad political agreement. It's a strength that there's a wide gap between what the government is leading in important foreign policy issues, and it's a great value we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e362	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough settlement, even though I may not be the same as the previous speaker in all the assessments he made. The EU’s sad situation is self-imposed. He's the result of a series of bad economic decisions that we've barely seen make. This is not a quote from the Center Party's program or from No to EU. On the other hand, it is an award from one of the most reputable professors of economics in the world, Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz – an award that stands in stark contrast to the European Union's estimation of the European Minister of Economic Affairs on Tuesday. Stiglitz notes that the creation of the euro and the subsequent policy of tightening up is a disastrous miscarriage that has led to ruined lives, broken dreams and dissolved families. When a Spanish girl has to cancel her doctorate in order not to appear as overqualified for a waitress job, we see how crazy it has gone. Stiglitz is concerned about how little need in Europe seems to affect the EU elite. The emergence of an extreme party in Europe is a consequence of this. The EU's market-liberal projects are seen working across Europe in competition with each other – a competition where the strongest market forces win and people lose the most. The experiment with a common monetary policy based on Frankfurt without a common fiscal policy is doomed to fail, and young people in large parts of Europe feel this on the body. Between Spain and Greece, young people have the same chance of winning in heads and coins as getting income. The creation of the euro was an error. The question is whether the EU is now making even more and even more mistakes. One's in a shoe fast. One can go back and reverse the misappropriation of the euro, but such a loss of performance will not be accepted by Brussels. One can introduce even more supranational governance, but it does not want the people of Europe. EU misguided economic policies have not created more reconciliation in Europe, on the contrary. Listen to how Germany and German politicians are referred to in Greece, and vice versa. Professor Stiglitz concludes equally fully that economic madness cannot continue forever. Democracy does not let that happen. But how much more must Europe suffer before reason can prevail, says Professor Stiglitz. Norway shall base its defence and security policy on NATO membership and active UN work. Next to our national defence is NATO and Article 5 of the NATO Pact, which says that armed action against one or more of the confiscated states is to be seen as taking action against all those who secure Norway. The central party will warn against using security policy as a breakpoint for EU adaptation that has nothing to do with security policy. For example, the European Minister has used security policy as the basis for an TTLP agreement. When I asked the Council of State Helgesen if he could point to a security policy element in the TTIP agreement, I got no answer, only that the agreement would lead to economic growth and mutual understanding and cooperation. But we are all in a defence alliance with the United States and most EU countries! Don't we have all mutual understanding with our NATO allies? If we are to follow this logic, the TPP agreement between the United States and a number of Asian countries must also deal with security policy. I also asked the Council of State if he knew about the security policy element of that agreement, but did not get an answer to that question either. Perhaps the Council of State can clarify this during this debate. The government sees the slow introduction of our EEA obligations as a time thief in management and in the business world – time thieves that provide temporary weak access to markets and poorer conditions of competition. We see an increasing legalisation of policy. The European Court of Justice and the EFTA Court of Justice are constantly given more power to decide on people’s lives. The decisions are taken by lawyers who are far away and who are not accountable to those who are being directed. The EEA Agreement also introduces one EU law after another in Norway, without Norwegian politicians taking their foot down. Now the government will have an even faster implementation of the EU directive. How quickly is it really possible to introduce EU laws and at the same time ensure an independent national assessment of them? I have not heard of a single Norwegian company that is excluded from the EU market because legislation is not yet in place in the EEA. Can the Council of State give a concrete example of this? I would like to get an answer to that during the debate today. On Tuesday, the Council of State said that the government did not take a position on the TTIP Transatlantic Trade Agreement. However, the Prime Minister has already stated that the government is very busy giving way to third country membership. It is possible that there is a preconstruction to the Norwegian connection to the TTIP agreement when the government has now sent a proposal to introduce investor protection mechanisms also in Norway. Does the government hope to dampen the resistance to TTIP and TISA? What effects do investor protection agreements have? We have many examples of this, but the time is too short for me to go into them here, but I just want to mention that even CEPR, the research centre for economic policy, which the European Commission has rented to carry out an impact assessment of TTIP, has found that between one and two million jobs will be lost as a result of that agreement. We should go into it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e396	Europe has been experiencing a major economic crisis since the 1930s. There are not many places left, and the unemployment rate is still high. In that period, it has been entirely decisive that one in Europe has not repeatedly failed from the 1930s, which was that a demarcated boundary. In Europe, we have kept the boundaries open, both for goods flows and not least for labour and migration. This has been important for Norway, for we have been so fortunate here that we have experienced a continuing boom which has largely been driven by high oil prices. It has been a good thing for the Norwegian community, we have had a great need for labour, and many have come here. Now we see that things may be turning around, unfortunately for Norway's part, but we also see that many of those who have come leave Norway looking for other labour markets. In the first quarter, net immigration in Norway had decreased by 2,600. It shows that the system is working. It shows that the EEA Agreement is working and that the workforce is looking for work to do. The consensus that there should be freedom of movement of labour, goods, services and capital is something we have here in the Stortingen and in the European Union, but it is being challenged. One of the points that Helgesen was in for the Great Britain was the situation in the United Kingdom, which others here have mentioned today. The United Kingdom will be allowed to do as it pleases, but Norway is still concerned about one of our closest neighbours and most important allies participating or not participating, fully or not fully, in European cooperation. Heilgesen mentioned in his post that the government was positive about getting a reform package. I'm a little curious what the government sees as such a reform package, initiated by the United Kingdom, will consist of, and what the consequences will be for Norway. What is nearby is what both Helgesen and others have to say, that is, the problem of social security exports. It is important, as the representative of Norheim mentions, that there is a lively debate both in the United Kingdom and in Denmark and partly in Norway, but in all three countries the debate is led on equally wrong premises. This is a ‘problem’ that is very small; it is very small amounts of money, but there is a very high risk of starting to delimit justice, creating A and B layers when it is just a matter of having to migrate from country to country. If you are busy limiting your cash benefit to other countries, it is probably most effective to spend money on services and not on cash transfers in your own countries. Further to the situation in the Mediterranean: the Mediterranean is our outer limit, and along our outer limit, humans die in thousands. It is good that Norway has arrived on the track, that we should participate with ships, but we must also participate with solidarity by accepting more refugees to our country. Then I would like to stress that many of those who, in a desperate situation, are trying to get over the Mediterranean are, in fact, not refugees or asylum seekers, but economic migrants. But the problem of economic migrants is not something that solves by military means or anything else, it's about creating an honest door to Europe, an honest door for those who want to and can work. Otherwise, in the policy on security, I would like to take note and stress that it is good that Norway and the government are shoulder to shoulder with our allies and with the EU in the view of the situation in Ukraine in the approach to Russia. Of course, when it comes to the internal threat of terrorism, which has also been mentioned, starting with the tragedy in Paris and Copenhagen, it is important to have targeted means of action against it, but at the same time one should never forget about privacy and individual freedom, which quickly comes under pressure in precisely those discussions. Finally, it has been one of the matters at hand, with the participation in financial supervision. The minister mentioned that too. It is good that one has come a good step further, but, as far as I understand, the negotiations have dragged out. One does not yet have a final agreement, and nearly 100 major financial acts are pending. What does the government do to get ahead of it? And last but not least, why does the government still insist that Norway should not benefit from the so-called SME discount, lower capital requirements from small and medium-sized enterprises, in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e415	Let me begin by thanking the Minister's statement and then thanking him for a good contribution from Liv Signe Navarsete. I'll start where she started, with the economic situation in Europe. Although it is that we get positive figures about economic development in Europe — as the minister also mentioned — it is not that it concerns the whole of Europe. According to The Economist, the economic crisis in Greece is as deep as the crisis in the United States was in the post-crisis crisis in the U.S. economy in 1929. At that time Roosevelt replied with the New Deal in the United States: building a welfare state and investing in industrialization. Let's say it carefully: that's not the way the EU has chosen in the face of the crisis. In Norway, after World War I, a social experiment was carried out. Norway then implemented a narrowing policy through the policy of parity. We're going to learn from history. It led to a negative development and led Norway to spend more time getting back to the fences after World War I than the country that did not choose not to pursue parity policies. In the same way that the Paris policy created the groundwork for the progress of the Labour Party in Norway, the policy of tightening up has led to the creation of a ground floor for Syriza in Greece. To see how important it is to pursue countercyclical policies, we can just look back at our own close history. During the financial crisis, we pursued an active counter-cyclical policy in Norway. We did it because we were able to do it. One reason is the strong automatic stabilisers we have. The fact that we have a high tax rate and a high proportion of publicly funded welfare schemes makes it easier for the state to carry downtime. The state makes up money when someone else would have dried on the private side, such as in the United States and several other countries based on large private-funded welfare schemes. Then the crisis becomes stronger. The second reason was political will. Therefore, I think it is striking that the number of totally unemployed in Norway is now higher than in the financial crisis years 2008–2010. It's just to notice that that's the case. European politicians today should have learned from the past. Neighbor's seat was on one. Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman is one of the many prominent economists who have regularly written in the New York Times about how bad it is to think that Greece can spare itself out of the crisis. It would have been better, he writes, if Greece’s reasonable demands to keep a greater share of growth in order to invest in continued growth were followed in order for the country to get out of the crisis. I notice that the EEA Minister’s statement was empty of his political position on this issue. For this reason, I ask the Council of State: What is Norway's message to the EU about the crisis package framework for Greece? We have influence through our indirect governing position in the IMF – the International Monetary Fund, which is one of the actors involved with Greece – and therefore it is also important what kind of position we have, because it has an influence on other actors dealing with Greece. Unfortunately, those of us who opposed Norwegian EU membership and were critical of the EU's common monetary policy have been given the right in the arguments about solidarity and economic muscles to meet the different economic developments in the different parts of the EU. For those of you who are in favour of Norwegian EU membership and the euro, this should be the test piece for the social sustainability of the euro project. No one has been served by social collapse in Greece, Spain and other countries — at least Greece’s own inhabitants. That's why I'm giving all the support to Syriza for a responsible effort to ensure that its own population is not sacrificed to the miscarriages of former elites. I would like the Helgesen State Council to express the same thing to the European Union. I would like briefly to say something about the climate and the environment. It would have been good to get feedback on how the negotiations are going and how the talks with the EU on Norwegian links to EU climate policy are. The EU's climate policy is based on three bones. One is the quota market, the other is energy efficiency improvement, and the third is renewable energy. Norway has agreed to participate in one part. Had I been to the EU, I would have said that, well, you will be in one part, you will have to be in the other parts too. I could think of hearing the State Council Helgesen say something about why we have not yet agreed to the EU Energy Efficiency Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e434	I am pleased that there is a broad understanding in this Chamber that we are in a new security policy situation in Europe, and while NATO's role has become more important, the role of the EU in foreign and security policy issues has also become stronger, also because non-military instruments are the primary ones in meeting Russia's behaviour. Then there has been a lot of attention on the economic and social situation in Europe as a result of the crisis. In my presentation, I placed great emphasis on the initiatives taken in the EU to get out of the crisis, but I have not previously hidden the fact that the economic crisis has also evolved into a social crisis, and in several countries also a political crisis, and that this is a challenge that is both a common European responsibility and a responsibility for individual countries. This applies not least to Greece. It is not sustainable to live over time, and that is what Greece itself needs to reform itself, but also to get help to get out of it. That is why we see it as very important that the current negotiations reach a conclusion that will enable Greece to move forward – and for European cooperation to move forward with its initiatives. There is no doubt that the restoration of Europe's growth power now stands as a point. 1 on the EU agenda and on the agenda of the European Commission. The budget that the Commission presented yesterday has almost 50 pst. reserved for growth measures, for competitiveness, for employment. Today, the EU agreed on the new European Fund for Strategic Investments, an important part of the Juncker Commission’s investment plan. The funding for education and research is increasing sharply, with an increase of 30 pst. in relation to 2015 in the Commission’s proposal, and Horizon 2020 has received 11.6 pst. increase. We see the investment in the digital single market as a great opportunity to allow the internal market to also relate to the digital area with high growth potential. The Energy Union and the investment in infrastructure where, working with a capital market union, red tape, smart regulation and not least the negotiations on TTIP – all these things are pan-European raising for increased competitiveness. While it is very important to contribute to tackling and addressing the social challenges, we do not avoid the fact that growth and employment are the basis of well-being in all European countries. Norway has important contributions to make here. We are an important energy player, the energy union is important to us, we are far ahead in the digital field, and as a participant in the internal market we are one of the countries receiving the most labour migrants. It is, as mentioned here, good for Norway, but it is also good for other European countries. In the EEA funds, we focus a lot on social measures, but in the next period we will also aim to increase efforts for competitiveness and action against unemployment, not least youth unemployment. Norway is in a completely different situation from most EU countries economically, but we also know that through the transition we are undergoing, we are going to become a new normal in the Norwegian economy. This means that our situation is likely to be more similar in at least some EU countries, and that means that our relationship with the EEA and having stable and predictable framework conditions for business is not less important. Let me comment on some of the details of the debate so far. Our negotiations on financial supervision – as I said in the presentation – have progressed slowly. We are aiming to find a solution, we are intensifying our efforts, but it is a demanding situation, and that is to the extent an example in an area where, if Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland do not have the same rules as EU countries, you can see that financial institutions will be concerned – and as they say in Liechtenstein, perhaps will look at other solutions outside Liechtenstein. With regard to the issue of the Data Storage Directive, the government has asked Professor Graver and Henning Harborg to make a statement. That statement has been postponed until 1 October, so that will be the basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e455	The northern regions are important for Norway. Perhaps even more important now is to keep up the pressure and maintain good relations, at a time when security policy changes are taking place in Europe. What initiatives have the Council of State taken against EU countries to promote attention to the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e460	Nordic policy is important for Norway and important for Europe, and in the current security policy situation we see increased interest in the north, both from the point of view of security policy and still due to the economic potential of the region. We see that the European Union is working on an Arctic strategy. We're very busy helping to make it based on actual circumstances and not on misunderstanding of actual circumstances. We have seen in recent years that the Arctic policy of the EU has moved in a direction closer to Norway’s point of view, and we are close to that process. In addition, issues relating to the Arctic and the North are those addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not least in discussions with his European colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e465	I thank you for a good answer. I think it is important for Norway to take the lead in this work. We're the area within this region that has the highest population density. That is why we also have a natural role to play in the North Region effort. But I am concerned that other countries are taking over the initiative. I am aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is addressing this issue with his colleagues, but my question is: Has the Council itself taken some new initiatives to increase the attention of its colleagues in the EU around the North?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e472	What is my main concern in this area is to ensure that we are close to discussions in the EU on the Arctic. Norway has a number of initiatives in the north, so I'm not worried that our leadership there will be weakened. But I am very concerned that we contribute to other countries having a proper understanding of the situation, of the challenges and of the legal and political framework that applies to the Arctic, not least. And it will be important for us to influence the discussions and influence the processes in the EU related to the Arctic Strategy. That's what matters to me, because it's an ongoing process in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e477	The Council of State says that the EU needs to get out of the crisis. The Council of State describes the social, political crisis, which is becoming more and more serious – a political crisis that gives political shocks. But there is no mention of the root causes. There is no analysis behind it. No one is saying that the single currency without a finance minister who can redistribute financial resources is an experiment. On the contrary, the European Minister talks about pan-European responsibility, about national responsibility. Yes, we have heard it all along; we have heard all along that Greece must introduce reforms. We see how the reforms are received by democratic Greece. My question is, why can't the Council of State tell us that the single currency without a finance minister who can redistribute large financial resources is a system error?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e484	It is true that the EU has seen weaknesses in its system as a result of the financial crisis, and that is the reason why fiscal policies have been tightened up and strengthened. We're part of this, among other things. in the negotiations on financial supervision. There is a need for transnational mechanisms to prevent excessive levels of unemployment at national level, and it is taking place in the EU. I do not think the discussion about the need for a EU finance minister is important here, the important thing is to address the problems, and that we, as part of the EEA, also see that we should contribute to this common rule development. Although we are not a member of the euro zone and are not affected by it, we are affected by the internal market, because we are part of it, and then it is important for us to contribute to the EEA-relevant parts of a more consistent policy and practice in the EU area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e491	I have two questions. The first was what I had in my main post: Why does my government think that small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway should have worse competitive conditions when it comes to accessing capital than those in our neighbouring country? The second question concerns climate. The minister stressed in his post that a quota market was going to work. It's the Left Unity in it. But the allowance market works, in the sense that one lets out nothing more than one has decided one to let go. The problem is that the allowance price is too low because of economic developments, and when the allowance price is too low, it does not drive technology developments in the future. Therefore, Germany, Denmark and Sweden are pursuing an ambitious national policy to promote climate change. Does the Council of State agree that this is also necessary for Norway to drive forward the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e498	First to capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises – I think we can touch briefly, because there is a question that has been answered in detail by both the Minister of Finance and myself on a number of occasions. We have decided not to implement the provision on reduced capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises, because we have a different economic situation than that which has motivated that regulatory change in the EU. On climate: Let me say that our negotiations with the EU on Norwegian participation in common with the EU will be about an agreement. It might be a more technical exercise. What is important is the discussions in the EU about what climate policy should mean in practice. Those discussions are in progress, we are committed to them, and we are also going to have national consultations. Moreover, it is quite clear that, in addition to our participation in the quota market and other EU climate policies, we must do a national job, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e507	Ever since the Brundtland Commission report, we have always been eager to work for a world that has economic, environmental and social sustainability, and that it should be a goal for the policies we conduct internally in our country, and for others. It leads me back to Greece again, because I felt that Helgesen did not give any real answer to my question and my challenge about what kind of job we are taking into the negotiations that are now going on between Greece and the creditors and the EU. Does Helgesen believe that the EU's approach to, and work towards, Greece is economically and socially sustainable? Does he think that Greece’s government is wrong when it says that it is not socially sustainable to cut pensions and reduce welfare schemes and thus hamper both social well-being and economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e514	It is in the word ‘sustainability’ that it is a long-term issue, and not only can you look at the situation today, you have to look at what has created the situation today. It is obvious that an economic policy in which we live is not sustainable. It is not economically sustainable, it is not environmentally sustainable and it is not socially sustainable. When we face the situation we are doing in Greece today, the only way to ensure sustainability for the future is to find a solution that consists both of reforms and of international support. That is why we support the ongoing conversations. We believe that dialogue is positive, but we really hope that the dialogue will lead to a result that can provide both lasting economic stability and lasting political stability in Greece, because what is happening in Greece is important for euro cooperation, it is important for the European Union and Europe, and it is therefore important for Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e521	In its proposal to the 2016 budget, submitted this year, the EU Commission presents the negligible nominal cut in co-rogations, and re-priorities have also been made. According to the Post Office, the government has increased Norway’s supply of EEA funds by 778 million. according to what the Council of State says, ‘allows us to go up to an increase corresponding to the increase in the EU’s cohesion funds’. Does the budget submitted by the European Commission mean that Norway will reduce its supply of EEA funds in line with its reduced budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e531	Now we haven't been able to go into all the details of the Commission's submissions to the budget, and it's also going through a process. Of course, we will deal with what comes out of such a budgetary decision in the European Union. At the same time, there are several items that are relevant for the calculation of cohesion measures, but what is our starting point is that we are already making a generous contribution. We're willing to continue the shy contribution. We in the EEA Council have recently indicated that we are looking for an increase similar to that of the EU. If there are changes in the EU's approach, of course, there will be something that we take forward in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e538	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e541	Like everyone who has spoken before me, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation, which merely confirms that European policy is so much more than what is happening in Brussels. European policies are domestic policies, so they are monstrous. Both May 8 and May 9 were special dates for Europe this year. Then it was marked that it was 70 years since a five - year - old bloody and painful fight against Nazism was over. No more war, was said throughout Europe in 1945. We got peace – which was interrupted by the war in the Balkans – but we also got a split Europe. In connection with the message "never more war" I feel the need to stop a little by the date of 9 May, also mentioned as the European Day. For most of us, the marking of the European Day went under the radar, and it was also not mentioned by the Council of State in his presentation. Perhaps it should have been, precisely because it is 65 years since the then French Minister for Foreign Affairs Robert Schuman launched a plan that was in many ways the starting point for what was to be Europe's largest peace project. The Schuman plan was an example of learning from the past, as requested from the pulpit here today. In order to ensure peace in the world, Schuman would create a united Europe, a united Europe that, in turn, would bring the long-term conflict between France and Germany to an end. That old enemies proved to be able to cooperate created a climate of trust, which in turn contributed to further cooperation in many new areas. Looking at Germany in this context, the country has gone from being an aggressive war power to being one of the most important countries in Europe in its efforts to create peace and stability in our part of the world. Robert Schuman translated the words 'never more war' into action through his plan for peace. In this perspective, the European Day on 9 May is worth marking – because the peace perspective is the very foundation of the EU. And without it having any meaning to anyone other than myself, this is exactly what makes me a convinced follower of the European Union. We are all aware of the security challenges Europe is facing today. They have been duly commented on by the Council of State in his presentation, but also by the representatives of Hansen and Norheim in their good speeches earlier today. So I'm not going to spend much time in my post on this right now, but I want to refer to what NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg said yesterday about Russia's saberrasling. It's serious, it has to be taken seriously, and we do. But I miss the word 'dialogue' when we talk about the security policy situation in Europe. Secretary-General Stoltenberg said: ‘There is no contrast between dialogue and strength. On the contrary. It is precisely because we have the strength to be in dialogue with Russia.’ I think these are wise words that we should take along to find a solution to the security policy situation in today's Europe. Russia must show will, but I think it is also important for us to put the dialogue on the agenda. I miss it. I am pleased that the Council of States spent so much time explaining why the EEA Agreements are important to Norway. We see an on-going debate, in which, in particular, No to the EU and parts of the trade union movement argue strongly to terminate the EEA Agreement. And what are their options? Yes, bilateral trade agreements between Norway and the EU. They refer to the examples of Switzerland and South Korea, which have agreements with the EU. I have to agree with the Council of State when he writes in his chronicle in the Newspaper on 26 May: ‘Cooperation with the EU is not an orderable list of sandwiches.’ At the same time, he questions what are the options. Only choosing agreements in the areas that best suit us has proved to be difficult. Switzerland has experienced that. I have seen the European Union there that the Swiss solution is no longer up to date. If they are to continue, they must negotiate within a space of action which is confusingly similar to our EEA Agreement. There is a very clear feedback that alternative agreements between Norway and the EU will not be easy to find. It is widely known that Europe is our home market and receives about 80 pst. of total Norwegian exports. That way, we secure a lot of jobs here at home. For my own part of the country, there is no doubt that our exports of fish depend on the market that Europe represents. Every day, 170 car trains, perhaps more, travel with Norwegian fish to the EU. The fisheries and aquaculture industry may be that part of Norwegian business where we can see the benefits of the EEA Agreement very clearly. Last year, Norway exported seafood to a value of 53 billion. kr. Two thirds of this went to our trading partners in the EU. Therefore, we also support the government's efforts to link the continuation of EEA funds to ensure further improvement of market access for the maritime food industry. It will be interesting to see what the TTLP negotiations between the EU and the United States can deliver on challenges for Norway. If the agreement is implemented — which many believe will happen — such an agreement will challenge Norway, especially as regards our exports of seafood to Europe and the United States. We expect the government to pursue an active policy with the aim of ensuring that Norway has an equivalent relationship with the TTIP. It is essential that such a link is achieved as soon as possible after the EU and the United States have concluded their negotiations, so that Norwegian business does not lose positions between the date of entry into force of the EU-US agreement and the time of Norwegian association. Heartbreaking pictures from the Mediterranean and Syria impress us, as the representative of Aarhus Byrknes was inside his post. Millions of refugees, people like you and me, are drowning on the journey across the Mediterranean – cynically exploited by human smugglers. These must be taken. I am very pleased that the Council of State, together with the government, the EU and others, are so clear that these networks must be destroyed – if necessary through military operations. The actions of human traffickers are comparable to the use of the sword by the IS to kill; these people pull out the bottom plug in the boat. Think about this: Only last year, around 3,500 refugees drowned in the Mediterranean. So far, more than 1,700 people have drowned. Among them we imagine the four-year-old being carried ashore by a fisherman in Greece – dead because of drowning. One gets quick thoughts about where he was going, what life he was missing, whether he was on his way to us, and would we accept him? Even with such pictures of the retina, someone in his folly here at home could allow himself to say, "Let them just drown." We have to react to such statements, we must not forget that 70 years ago we were ourselves a people who were chased away. It is an inhuman reminder of world inequalities and indescribable distress when people see themselves having to risk their own and their family lives in a desperate attempt to come to Europe — to Norway — in order to achieve the most important of all: security. We can't stop this alone, but we can contribute both here at home and out. And in this perspective, the content of the word'solidarity' has an important meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e585	In 1990, Asia stood for about 26 p.m. the production of goods globally. In 2013, this had increased to 46 pst. The increase is mainly due to China’s opening up of its own economy, through market-oriented reforms and deregulations promoting trade. These reforms have led to economic growth that has raised about 500 million people out of poverty, which inevitably leads to the planned economy. We can imagine what this economic growth could have done for those countries of Africa where refugees today cross the sea route to Europe. Today, China is the strongest driver of production, development and economic growth in what is called the Asian factory. Tax incentives, availability of competent enough and not least enough labour and good infrastructure make China attractive to highly competent companies such as HP, IBM and Nokia. At HP's request, the provincial authorities of Chongqing have built a route to transport HP's PCs to Europe via Kazakhstan, which has reduced the transit time from 35 to 22 days. It is possible that the president now thinks: what in the world does this have to do with the EEA? Well, without an agreement that simplified our access to what is actually our home market, it's the competition from the emerging Asian economies we'd competed against. It had definitely made Norway a different country to compete against the wage conditions and productivity of these countries. It is always as fascinating to hear the opposition to the EU and the EEA from them as they seem to defend Norwegian interests. The unwillingness of the previous government has led us to lag behind the implementation of the directives and rules that are so frequently criticised, but where most actually give Norwegian business better market access and a level playing field towards our main market. Several have mentioned that the EEA Agreement has ensured access to the market that receives around 80 pst. of Norwegian exports. There is no doubt that this has not only served the Norwegian economy but has also ensured Norwegian jobs in Norway. But it is not just access to the market that has been important. Free movement of labour means greater opportunities for individuals, who are given the opportunity to use their labour force where necessary. It also means that countries in need of labour do not stagnate in the lack of workable hands and heads. Less than a year ago, LO’s chief executive, Stein Reegård, said to Dagbladet that since the financial crisis in 2008, the whole employment growth in Norway has caused foreign labour. Since the financial crisis in 2008, 260,000 people have been employed in Norway, which obviously does not seem to be the case. I think the 260 000 people involved, and their families, have a different attitude to that possibility. The free movement of labour, goods and services has served the Norwegian economy very well. With a forward-looking government that will make sure that we actually take advantage of the opportunities offered by this agreement, it will do so in the future as well. One of the key factors for sustainable business and economic growth is research and innovation. The EU Horizon 2020 programme is with its 80 billion. the euro is one of the world’s largest research and innovation programmes. It is nice to be able to give praise to the red-greens for at least saying yes to joining as a full member of this programme. Norway’s participation will help to ensure the value of the future and competitiveness, and this government wants several Norwegian players to take a greater share of the competitive funds – not just to benefit from our own investment, but above all to strengthen our competitiveness and innovative capacity. Speaking of competitiveness and innovation: the EU Digital Single Market Strategy is good news, as there are today major national barriers in the digital market due to different national legislation in areas such as telecommunications regulation, copyright, geo-blocking and privacy. A digital single market for over 500 million people offers great opportunities for the future. But then I have a warning and a call for the government: it is allowed to be critical of the EU. Thank you to the parties in Stortinget that were active against the EU Data Storage Directive. We should not be so willing that we uncritically say yes to all directives just to keep our part of the agreement. Fortunately, the resistance in the EU was high enough for the directive to be drawn. An efficient market rests not only on economic principles but on trust. It just becomes more important as technology gives opportunities we've never seen before. Better organisation of digital infrastructure and services, including between authorities and citizens, demands that we be able to balance privacy and individual rights against the need for monitoring and obtaining mass information. The last time we had the opportunity, we failed. Don't do it again. What we should do is be forward-looking in the discussions on teleregulation, geo-blocking and modernisation of copyright. These may be the main barriers to innovation and development in digital Europe. But then we must also take the debate on the modernisation of copyright here at home, and there are strong special interests and counter-powers inside and outside this room. Here the government has a job to do, but I have all the confidence that the government will take that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e615	The first thing that struck me when I heard the Council of State's reflected statement on Tuesday was that important EU and EEA issues can no longer be confined to issues related to trade between European countries. It is equally an account of foreign policy issues which, a few years ago, would have been considered completely irrelevant to the purchase and sale of goods across borders in Europe. The fact that the situation of refugees in the Mediterranean, the situation of the Roma, the development of Hungary, the EU resistance in the United Kingdom, the situation in Ukraine, the relationship with Russia and military cooperation within and outside NATO would have an impact on European trade would be strange for many. But it's not. All these matters are most relevant for creating the best possible conditions for the purchase and sale of goods and services in Europe. However, what role Norway can and should play in such a global setting is not a simple question to answer, but what we know is that we will in any case be directly affected. Europe is experiencing a rapidly growing immigration pressure from the Middle East and Africa. Some of these are persecuted and need protection, but most are people who escape poverty in order to gain a better economic life and future for themselves and theirs – a perfectly legitimate desire. Those who manage to get to Europe have often risked their lives and at the same time paid traffickers for the dangerous journey. Smuggling is organised by criminal networks, and it is therefore positive that the EU is taking comprehensive action to combat these networks. Combating human smuggling requires good analysis and targeted efforts against the backers. It is therefore positive that in June the government will present a major communication on global security challenges with the aim of strengthening this work. However, the fight against smuggling networks will not solve the challenge facing our continent. Poor people from Africa and the Middle East will continue to try to get to our richer part of the world, and the extent is likely to increase. The answer to this challenge is not to allow more and more people to live in Europe. Such a solution is neither economically nor culturally sustainable. We see challenges in many countries today, and the desire to welcome them more and more will rock the stability of the recipient countries. We already see such trends. The only solution to end the migration of poor people from the south to the north is for the countries themselves to develop. In this context, it is good to remind ourselves that many countries in Europe also experienced poverty a few generations back. Sustainable development, however, does not come about by itself, nor does it come through economic gift packages from rich countries. Economic development can only be achieved through good governance and cooperation combined with a genuine will and interest to make everyday life progressively better. Then you have to put cultural, religious and ethnic conflicts aside and realize that economic development needs to benefit everyone. Of course, it's easier said than done, but there's no way out. The flow of poor people attempting today to smuggle over the Mediterranean to Italy must be halted, and it is therefore positive that the government strengthens the humanitarian effort and sends a ship to the Triton operation to save lives. To the representative Kåre Simensen: I don't know where the Simensen is, but I've never heard anyone say 'let them drown'. However, avoiding the loss of human lives is only the first step in a series of measures that need to be taken to stop the flow of poor people. Norway’s contribution to relieving the humanitarian situation in Syria and neighbouring countries is this year of 1 billion. kr. It's money going to food, health, shelter, education, water and sanitary services. It is quite obvious that the best and most effective effort the government can make is to help people where they come from. In this way, we can help fewer people choose to embark on a dangerous journey towards Europe. And in this way, the money will also go further and you'll be able to help a lot more. The situation in the Mediterranean Sea is far too dramatic to allow some to exercise elitist empathy without economic or other consequences for themselves. Norway should do as the government does, and has said it will continue to contribute: help to self-help in the neighbourhoods. My contribution has been devoted in its entirety to the migration flow into Europe – not because other EU and EEA issues are not important, but because everything else will gradually be subordinated if we do not have the ability to have a permanent, coordinated system that reduces the economic motivation for travelling to Europe. Of course, people who flee from war and persecution should have the opportunity to seek protection in safe countries. A future solution should be that such applications are dealt with by a single set of rules at one or two major UN-funded and UN-driven asylum recipients in the neighbourhoods of the refugees. I am therefore pleased that the government has chosen to finance a refugee reception on the Greek island of Lesbos. The future will show that today’s system of national asylum applications is neither sensible nor sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e641	I have read the statement by the Council of State on important EU and EEA issues that were on the agenda here in Stortinget on 26 May. There are many important challenges we have, as the statement also shows. Under the heading «Norwegian local democracy in an international context», the government describes the government’s departments’ views on how EEA law intervenes and imposes requirements on the municipality sector in Norway. EEA law and all its rules and regulations may not be a daily cost on the table of local authorities, but are nevertheless important. On page 39 of the 2016 Municipal Proposition, among others: ‘The summer of 2013 asked ESA questions as to whether the general tax exemption for countries, health businesses and municipalities, including their economic activity, is contrary to the EEA Agreement rules on public aid’. [[state]] Furthermore, it says in the same proposition: ‘The ESA has subsequently provisionally assessed that the general tax exemption involves public aid in breach of the EEA Agreement and that a change in the tax law can solve this problem.’ Finally, it also stands in the same proposition: ‘As a result of ESA’s enquiry, work has been started to assess the general exemption for municipalities and county municipalities’. I have, at least this way to begin with, three appeals to the Minister on the occasion of this matter. The first is a call for the Minister and Government to show as much transparency as possible in the ongoing job on the solution to these questions. Furthermore, I urge the Minister to explain how the work on these issues is now being further handled by the government. I also encourage the Minister to explain how the Stortinget, the municipalities and the county councils will be involved and informed about developments, and in what way any solution proposals will be discussed with stakeholders before moving on to ESA. The government itself writes in the municipal bill that they will strive for comprehensive solutions. That's good, but holistic solutions are the result of interested parties being heard and included in the processes, and I hope that the Minister will confirm here that he will take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e674	I'm going to try to talk a little bit about trade, but I can't help but thank the Council of State for a very thorough briefing, which shows that there are major challenges in a wide range of areas across Europe, and that the EU is our main trading partner, with which more people have been involved. The EEA Agreement is therefore of fundamental importance for our welfare and Norwegian business. So it's clear from the beginning. The Council of State said that Norway ‘must go from specialty to conversion’. We share many of Europe's challenges. Globalisation cannot be shut down, productivity in society must increase if we are to maintain our level of well-being, and, in short, competitiveness must be strengthened. But we should be happy that we have a completely different starting point than most of the EU has, and when my colleague in the EFTA delegation, Svein Roald Hansen, says that the EU must start to ‘stimulate growth rather than new cuts’, we should perhaps remember that there is a level of debt around Europe that simply blocks that opportunity. When I hear the discussion about Greece, which I cannot fail to comment on either, it could be very nice if those who are very active in criticising the transparency of many of the agreements I am going to mention afterwards, simply made a proposal that Norway is funding the deficit in Greece. Because that's what we're talking about, that you've lived over ability for a long time, and others have to go in and finance that you live over ability. I think that is simply not possible. So here some countries are facing some major challenges. But when it comes to commerce, a lot is happening around the world that affects us very much. Given that the WTO is a little quiet, President Obama has made the year this year a trading year, and he is pushing very hard to get a TPA. It's now through the Senate, but it's in the House of Representatives, and there's an exciting discussion over there if you get a so-called fixed track-ability to negotiate finished agreements, but when Svein Roald Hansen and I were in Washington in April, the optimism was quite great. The Americans will first negotiate TPP, i.e. the trade agreement that goes around the Pacific, and then they will have full focus on TTIP, whether the President gets his TPA. These are quite crucial processes for us. We are not in any of them, nor should they be confused. TPP is a traditional trade agreement, while TTIP is a much broader agreement, which goes a lot more on standards and ensuring that Europe and the United States actually define what will be the standard for world trade in the future. I think Norway has every interest in success. We always have offensive and defensive interests in such agreements, of course we do, but I have asked many – including those representing the most defensive interests – which world they face if there are other countries that are going to start defining which standards to apply. Nor should we forget that it is not in Europe and the United States that the majority of the world's population lives, so when the growth power in Asia comes, we have every interest in the TTIP negotiations winning out. We also have a great interest in the TISA negotiations. There are huge markets, with significant growth, and Norway has built its well-being on the fact that we have done very well to meet the challenges that a trade presents, and has succeeded in specialising in the areas that provide jobs that are capable of defending our level of prosperity. We should still stick to that line. When Navarsette then talks down both investor agreements and everything, it's very amazing. Because in the case of investor agreements, there is some country that really has an interest in the fact that there are good deals about investment outside, and also here at home, Norway. I would think that SPU, when it sits there and assesses which countries it can go into, evaluates the security it has for the money Norway places there. But as Trade Commissioner Malmström said, "I want the rule of law, not the rule of laws," so here, of course, there is a balance. But one cannot ignore the importance of investor agreements. So finally, trade is the basis of our prosperity, and those who oppose both the EEA Agreement, the TTIP and everything must be prepared to defend that they also weaken our future prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e689	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e692	The core of government’s European policy is that Europe opens up opportunities. We are not a member of the EU, but there is no other international actor that means more to Norwegian everyday life, and with which we work more closely than the EU. The EEA Agreement and all the 73 other agreements we have with the EU make us the most integrated foreign country in Europe. Cooperation gives us access to our second most important market, with over 500 million people. It ensures growth and development in Europe and Norway. The development of a digital single market, DSM, and a digital economy are one of the top priorities of the new Juncker Commission. A well-functioning digital single market can generate huge benefits for the European economy, up to 415 billion. the euro in increasing European GDP. The EU Digital Single Market Strategy was presented on 6 May. DSM is a joint project that applies to about half of the directorates of the Commission, and that directly relates to the responsibilities of many departments in our country. There are currently national barriers in the digital market due to different national legislations in areas such as telecommunications regulation, copyright, information security and privacy. The aim is a digital single market for more than 500 million people, where businesses and individuals interact easily and efficiently across borders. The strategy for the future has three areas of activity and 16 concrete initiatives. Firstly, it is about making a digital internal market work in practice and providing better access to digital goods and services for businesses and consumers. Secondly, it is about better organisation for digital infrastructure and services. It includes modern and customised regulation of telecoms and media and privacy. Thirdly, it is about creating a society with an economic climate in which European industry and business can grow. Norway has already contributed to the development of the strategy involving Commissioner Oettinger in February. Now the strategy is here, and it is very positive that the government wants to facilitate parallel discussions in Europe and Norway. This was e.g. the theme of the previous meeting of the European Selection Board of the United Kingdom, and the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries jointly organised a large conference in Oslo on European ICT Policy, EUICT15. In addition, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will present a key message on a new digital agenda. It will then be important to follow the EU's work on the Digital Single Market Strategy closely and to take this with us in national work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e711	European Minister Helgesen gave a thorough and good account of the Stortinge two days ago. Many have pointed it out, and many have commented on individual themes from his presentation. He affected, among other things: The EU Migration Agenda. As a Schengen member, we have a joint responsibility to address the migration challenges at the EU's external borders. As a fellow human being, we are responsible for assisting and saving migrants in distress, for example. Sea nut. Because it is a major migration pressure across the central Mediterranean towards Italy/Europe. This responsibility and co-responsibility are the responsibility of the government, as the Prime Minister also stated in Stortinget on 30 April. We know the situation: it's serious and very complex. The European Commission itself is now working along four lines — after receiving marshalls from the Council special meeting on 23 April, informing them that there is time to venture more, for migration is one of the major global challenges that the EU needs to address. The four lines I'm thinking about are: the action plan to crack the networks staging human trafficking protection programmes and the relocalisation of the more than 60,000 migrants who have only recently arrived in Italy, Greece and Malta – the Frontex Blue Card Directive, which has previously been adopted; Norway supports where we can, inter alia: on the extension of the Triton Operation Plan for which there is now a dialogue between Frontex and the coastal states. Yes, the situation is serious, and it requires new and extraordinary measures. We're contributing ship to the Triton operation, as we know it. We have seen that the government has just increased the humanitarian contribution to the Mediterranean crisis by 50 million. kr. However, this must also be seen in the context of our humanitarian assistance to the region and people on the run in neighbouring countries. The last is that Norway has agreed with Greece to use from the EEA funds to establish a new reception centre on Lesvos, as part of the reinforced Mediterranean effort, with a further 13,5 million. kr, which will increase the Greek capacity to receive migrants – in addition to the 21 million. the euro which is already being used to strengthen asylum procedures and other migration measures in Greece. It is unacceptable that cynical human traffickers endanger thousands of people's lives, while doing so in order to profit from the desire of migrants to improve their own situation by coming to Europe. As a result, Norway is also stepping up assistance to people from the Middle East and the Horn of Africa to North Africa, providing 50 million. for measures for refugees in transit countries. In addition to saving lives in the short term, it is important to work widely in this matter – to make a comprehensive effort and address the underlying causes of today’s refugee flows. This will, without doubt, impose new demands on our humanitarian and development policy efforts, which we will be cooperating with the European Union over time. Norway is good at neighborhoods. Europe is our neighbour. We stand shoulder to shoulder in our neighborhood to give and to get back, as it must be done in Europe. This is how social sustainability is created in the neighbourhood of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e749	The European Union has an embedded system error — the single currency, the euro, without the Minister of Finance. This is the consensus in state-scientific environments, whether one is a Union follower or a Union opposer, precisely because it is an unparalleled experiment. It is unique in the world today – no democratic country has anything similar. This is the elephant in the room that Minister Helgesen is not talking about. Yes, no one in the foreign service can discuss this publicly. This violation of the people's information tradition in Norway, which many celebrate at historic events for the emergence and development of good Norwegian society, is a major democratic problem. This is a problem for which the Prime Minister is supremely responsible. The EU is characterised by extremely high unemployment, with social and political unrest as many people say. From historical experience, we know that when the insecurity of working life becomes serious enough for a long time, democracy is put on a basic test – a fundamental test! That's what's now happening in southern Europe. There is far too little Norwegian debate on the consequences of economic liberalism without popular political correction. If the people elected in Greece do not succeed in giving hope of social security for people, undemocratic movements will be even more uplifted, among other things. in Greece. It is very important to recognise this, because this is really peacemaking. The EU’s system errors are recognised by many, and they are recognised by the people of Europe in Norway. They understand. Svein Roald Hansen understands this, because it is laid down in the Statutes of the European Movement that one must have an economic and political union, as it is in the United States. Historically, we know that when the US, the United States of America, became a union, a finance department was first established with a finance minister – then they got a single currency. This tells the Americans when they look at EU developments. Juncker's problem is: the EU's economic and political union does not have democratic support. This is why a strong party – one does not progress in an economic and political union while not wanting to withdraw and end the euro. It doesn't get better, because people don't move quickly enough from southern Europe to northern Europe. The Council of State gives the impression that the government of Norway, and not just the United Kingdom, was in the EU of national states. The whole contribution to the Council of State is marked by the supranational rather than by the national states, the EU. If this were to be the case, the Council of State had to say clearly and clearly from: the euro has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e764	I would like to thank the Council of States for a clear and reflective statement on the situation and conditions in EU and EEA-related countries. I take the floor now because I am in charge of the Norwegian delegation that Stortinget has to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Much of our work is concentrated around human rights, rule of law and democratic development. I thought I would say a few words about the developments we see in the Member States of the Council of Europe concerning the presentation made by the Council of State. Of course, it would have been tempting to have the main focus on Ukraine and Russia, but I know that this has been done in the past and will continue to be done, so I will concentrate on making some views about the development that is going wrong in another European country, namely Hungary. It is worrying to see that we have a Prime Minister, Orban, in Hungary, who is calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty. There is one of several things going in the wrong direction in the country. We have witnessed in recent years that there has been a very unfortunate development and also a concentration of power in the country, which undermines precisely what goes on democratic values, rule of law and also human rights. Norway’s disagreement with Hungary is largely due to breaches of concluded agreements with regard to the formal provisions on the management of EEA funds, but also to breaches of the provisions on the overall purpose of the funds, which are precisely to safeguard and safeguard universal democratic values and the rights on which European cooperation is based. I also see that the government has rejected the submitted audit report, as it has been implemented contrary to the agreements, precisely in the cooperation that we should have with Hungary. I am concerned and also very pleased that Norway and the government are based on their own independent audit report that is soon to be ready. The authorities in Hungary have made allegations of crimes against our fund operator and have suspended their tax number, which, of course, threatens their existence. It is very regrettable that we have a Hungarian government that wants to weaken just free and independent votes, and the actions that have been taken against our fund operator are being incorporated into the range of measures that go in an illiberal direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e779	My very first political commitment – if you can put it that way – was in the 1972 EC fight. I was nine years old and wanted Norway into the European Community. There has been a lot of water in the sea since then, but I stand firm in my position that Norway should be part of the European Union. Nevertheless, when we stand on the outside purely formal, I am pleased with the commitment of the government through its close political cooperation with those who are closest to us in the international community, our European friends. One of the main challenges we face here at home is to ensure Norwegian competitiveness so that we can preserve the Norwegian welfare state in the future. Then we'll have to look far ahead. Therefore, one of the most important projects of the government is to implement a great deal of knowledge. It is because knowledge is essential to strengthen competitiveness and build the country for the future. A strong commitment to research, through both the public and private sectors, will provide the basis for future jobs in a globalised world. But to ensure our own competitiveness, we depend on cooperating internationally. We're a little piece in a big game, and we can never succeed if we don't cooperate closely with the rest of the world. Therefore, one of the main priorities of Norwegian research and innovation policy is internationalisation. Horizon 2020 is the main instrument for the internationalisation of Norwegian research and innovation. It will help to build up scientific quality. It will give us increased access to the European and global markets and thus strengthen us. It will provide access to major research networks. It will give us a unique arena to strengthen cooperation with actors outside Europe as well. There is a strong consensus in this room that participation in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation is important. But I have to stress that the government of Solberg has greatly increased the investment in higher education and research since the government change in 2013. In addition, the government has promoted its own long-term research and higher education plan, its own strategy to strengthen research and innovation cooperation with the EU and a key communication on structural changes to ensure high quality in the university and higher education sectors. The government has strengthened the instruments to stimulate Norwegian research communities to apply for EU funds. It has been very well received in the sector, and we are still seeing success stories among Norwegian research communities that succeed in their applications. Both STIM-EU, positioning support and other measures have been taken to reach government ambitions to increase the EU success rate. It's good to see that it's moving forward. As is now the case during the programme period, the economic return is 1,87 p.m. It's a very positive development, compared to the previous programming period. It is about hard work on the part of the research community, but it is also about what expectations the authorities signal, and how to facilitate the success of our EU action. Finally, I am pleased that in this field we are counting as full members of the European Research Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e809	Much has been said about labour immigration. There is no point in putting under the chair the challenges of this labour immigration. We know that people are exposed to social dumping — unacceptable pay and working conditions. Not long ago we could read about two Lithuanians who had traveled to Norway to work. They had been working here for 209.5 hours. The salary was NOK 3,500. That's $16 per hour. The Labour Inspectorate reports on places where work must be stopped immediately due to risks to life and health. It is a strong reminder that work-life crime is more than pay. It should tear us apart when we hear that people have it like that in their workplace. Fortunately, Norway's normal situation is different. The norm in Norway is a safe working life. The normal thing in Norway is that people are good at work. We do not accept threats to this working life. That is why I am pleased with the strategy against the crime of labour that the government has and that was developed in cooperation with the social partners. However, it is also important to stress that labour immigration has been positive for Norway. It's given more growth. It's given more prosperity. Immigrants have contributed to the well-being development of most people. At the same time, free movement provides opportunities — opportunities for people to seek a better life for themselves and their families. I mean, in a way, it can be a lacmus test for a rich country, both how you understand your own wealth and how to manage it. An open economy, a market economy, with trade is a prerequisite for creating wealth, and that is a prerequisite for freedom. It's also a good contribution to helping others in their search for a better life. We're going to take seriously the challenges this movement has given us. The rest of the trade movement plays a major role here. We need clear legislation, with good supervision. Equally serious, we're going to take the possibilities that this creates for us, but not least for those who need it the most. Finally, I would just like to express my warm thanks to the Council of State for a good presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e828	I want to continue where I ended my first post. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen was amazed at my scepticism about the investor protection agreement. Yes, Egypt was sued for introducing minimum wages in the country. Germany is sued because they want to phase out nuclear power plants. An ugly example of the loss of national self-esteem was El Salvador when an Australian mining company polluted the water in the country. When the country tried to put a stop to it, it was sued for a staggering amount. Australia has been sued for introducing a warning against smoking. Ten years ago, Norway introduced smoking laws. The requirement that serving places should be smoke-free was not least important to keep the health of those who worked there. Would it be possible to do this if we were bound by TTIP or other investor-state agreements? Would the plural at Stortinget tort try? Had we been sued for a large amount of money, for money that could otherwise go to safe care for the elderly or better schooling? The economic effects of TTIP are at best unclear. On behalf of the NHO, NUPI has looked at it, and they say that the loss for Norwegian exports by not entering TTIP will be about 800 million. SEK of an export of 906 billion in 2013. NOK, i.e. less than 1 per million of Norwegian exports. I'm surprised at Kåre Simensen's eagerness to enter the TTIP when we know that Norwegian membership could mean that a significant part of the 90 000 jobs in the food industry and agriculture are at risk. The Councils of State were also within the EU and the United Kingdom in the speech on Tuesday. He hopes that the United Kingdom will be a permanent member of the EU. It's not surprising. Governments also travelled to England last fall and talk on behalf of the government and Norway down the Norwegian model through a strong warning to our neighbours in the west against making the same mistake as Norway, easy to stand outside the EU. The fact that the Council of State warns against the vote of the people in Norway is serious. It is only from one perspective that such a behaviour from a government council is logical, and it is if one suggests that Norway becomes a member of the EU in a short time. But that's what the Norwegian people have said clearly no to twice already, and at least the government itself has said that there is no current policy. On the contrary, Norway’s main interest in the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU would be the United Kingdom. A solution that is then real is that the United Kingdom will again become a member of EFTA. It will strengthen the EFTA's negotiating position vis-à-vis the EU significantly. Does the Council of State not believe that it would be in Norway's interest to negotiate with it as if in a few decades it would be the most populous country in Europe? And what direction does the EU take? We don't know, but we know what the goal of European Movement is. I think more people in this room are also members. I can read directly: ‘ objective is to contribute to the establishment of a united federal Europe’. [[...]] It might be interesting to share that objective on the right of the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e844	Norway has an ambition to make five-six-six-fold value creation in the marine food industries. If we are to succeed, we must work systematically and aim at creating market access. It is a major challenge for Norway that there are parallel negotiations on EEA funds and market access for Norwegian fish on the one hand and a gradual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, so-called Article 19 negotiations, on the other hand, without us being able to see the integrity of this. I believe that we in Norway believe that a satisfactory solution to the negotiations on EEA funds depends on a satisfactory solution to the market access for fish. A link has been made between money and fish, as has been done by previous governments, but no links have been made between fish and agriculture. I think we need to turn each stone in order to find good ways to increase our market access for fish in Europe. Every day, Norwegian fishing industry contributes more than 20 million fish meals to consumers in the EU, and Norwegian fish raw material creates 12 000 jobs in the EU. This value creation would have preferred to be here in the country. Fish are Norway's second largest export industry, and there is reason to believe that it can become even more important in the transformation of the Norwegian economy now facing. It is not least also an important district industry in Norway. A total of 95 pst. of all Norwegian fish exported. 60 pst. of Norwegian maritime food exports go to the EU, and approx. 70 pst. of which he is liable to customs duties. The problem for the fishing industry is that the link with agriculture is not covered by the EEA Agreement. Like most other markets, the EU will protect its business interests. Customs and duty-free quotas on Norwegian fish are linked to the EU's own fisheries and agricultural policy. For salmon, there are low quotas and high customs duties, as this is also produced in EU countries, but there is customs freedom for white fish that are not prepared, because this requires the EU as a commodity in the further processing of white fish. The EU has been increasingly dependent on imports of fish over time, but Norway has also been dependent on the EU market to sell our products, especially salmon and produce. As you know, it is also a goal to have more fish cooking in Norway and to sell less of unprepared fish to the rest of the world. So it's about creating more values here in Norway before we sell to the rest of the world. However, it is asked whether the EU will meet with the desire for new agreements with better market access for fish without getting anything back. So I think that to get something we have to be willing to give something. So I want to challenge the Central Party to make constructive contributions to this debate on how we can improve our market access in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e859	I would like to make a few comments on Norway's relations with the EU's climate and energy policy, which is also one of the main elements of the Council of State's presentation. Norway’s climate change target by 2030, which was adopted in March in Stortinget, is ambitious and they commit. We're going to reduce climate emissions by 40 pst. compared to 1990 emissions. The government is now working to implement this together with the EU. It is gratifying that Norway’s initiative has received broad support. The EU Energy and Climate Commissioner, Miguel Cañete, is among those who are very enthusiastic about the clear message from Norway. The EU solution provides long-term and predictability and will strengthen the cooperation we already have with the EU through the quota system. The Government has started a dialogue with the Commission with a view to concluding an agreement once the EU has taken its necessary internal decisions. Norway will also participate in the preparation of the EU rules on the implementation of the climate target. However, as the Council of State just said, it is important now for the EU to discuss what climate policy should be in practice. The time is running out in front of the great climate summit in Paris for the autumn. There are less than 200 days left, and the mood is impatient. Unfortunately, there are too few who have opted for the level of ambition of Norway and the EU in terms of emissions cuts so far. For example, the U.S. target is much less ambitious, with a cut of about 26 pst. by 2025 compared to the 2005 level. To date, only 36 countries, including the EU countries, have responded to the call for national contributions. In this context, I would like to commend Mr Tine Sundtoft, Minister for Climate and Environment, who has stressed the urgency of putting in place an agreed text for the Paris climate summit with clear objectives and a clear direction. Sundtoft has underlined that the new climate agreement should also contain a long-term global target for net emissions by 2050, and it was very much welcomed at an informal climate meeting in Berlin last week. It is very positive that the government's proposals on long-term climate objectives are increasingly being heard. In order for us to achieve the climate goals, there will be a lot of us here at home in terms of emissions cuts. An ambitious global climate agreement and an ambitious climate policy make good sense not only for the environment. Last autumn's report on the New Climate Economy showed that climate issues do not limit the potential for value creation, but rather are an opportunity for development and growth. Therefore, the climate targets are also good business policies that provide good framework conditions for Norwegian jobs, and there are many good examples in Norway of people with good ideas who create jobs without leading to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e872	I thought I would give some comments to some of the posts here. First to Svein Roald Hansen, who said we have to pay for the well-being we grant. That is what everyone agrees with. His conclusion was that we could not have tax relief because we had to pay for this well-being. The logic of what Hansen's representative says is: the more taxes, the more well-being, the 100 pst. tax – maximum well-being. It is unlikely that Hansen's representative will believe that. What we're all looking for is to find the right balance point that gives the most growth possible, the most possible jobs, and at the same time the most well-being possible. If we don't agree on that, we can put this debate to death, otherwise it becomes populism. It's about finding this balance point. It can vary from state to state, depending on economic incentives. In fact, incentives give more tax relief. So to the representative Rotevatn, who talked about having an open and honest door to Europe. That's the largest raft in existence. It seems as if just we're opening up, the workplaces will flow and flow into those who want to move to Europe. What we're talking about here are poor people without education and with cultural challenges that need all sorts of assistance when they come to a completely foreign culture with an advanced economy. What jobs are there that this open and honest door is going to give these flows to Europe, to a society that is becoming more advanced and increasingly high-tech? Is it poorly paid laundry jobs, or what kind of jobs do you think those who come from Africa and the Middle East will get in Norway? It's too simple just to say that we're going to have an open and honest door. So to Heikki Holmås, who said that a strong and large welfare state ensures us in bad times, therefore we should take action. The point is, where does this strong welfare state come from? How can public authorities allocate themselves to jobs where money can be made, which can be profitable, and which can generate growth and prosperity, so that the welfare state actually has money? I Googled SV's party program. Under «Workplaces» it is said that you should have a youth guarantee for a job. Everyone should have a job to go to. Young people should be helped to get into work. Strong countermeasures such as the counterweight of cut-off measures, long-term public ownership, multi-studies, increased research, environmental technology management, oil twisting and guaranteed pay levels are required. That's interesting. Money is needed to create these jobs, but where are these jobs to come from? It is precisely where the EEA Agreement takes place – so that we can sell our goods and create the well-being that Heikki Holmås and SV have used up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e883	In autumn 2014, an important conference was held in Oslo in cooperation with the Polish Embassy entitled ‘Polish Community in Norway’. Opportunities and Challenges’. It was important because it put the Polish-Norwegian relations on the agenda and drew up the contributions Poland has made to build the Norwegian welfare community. But the conference was also about Norwegian-Polish economic cooperation. In addition, it is worth mentioning Norwegian students who receive their medical education in Poland. This gives a unique competence that can also be used when meeting Polish patients in Norway. Poland is an important partner for Norway, both as a NATO member and as an EU member. Poland has great ambitions in its commitment to European policy and has a clear voice in EU cooperation. The number of registered Poles in Norway is over 80,000, and more than 1,500 Nordics study at Polish universities, more in medical studies. This competence should be exercised by Norway. Students with a high level of competence in Poland and with medical training can play an important role in Norwegian working life and the working environment. Poland is the largest beneficiary of EEA funds with a total of EUR 9.2 billion. kr since 2004. Key areas of action include the environment and climate, health, culture, justice, civil society and research. Cooperation contributes to very broad contacts between numerous public and private actors in Poland and Norway. These have been involved in more than 3000 projects in Poland. This strengthens bilateral relations and cooperation in areas of common interest. Poland will also be an important partner for Norway in the future, both at economic and cultural level. Historically, many Polish guest workers have been in Norway and work. This has been positive for the development of Norway, but also for the Polish economy. It is important that Polish guest workers are given the opportunity to learn Norwegian for use in the workplace, mainly because it builds bridges, but also because it can prevent accidents at work. Lack of common language in a workplace can create misunderstandings and accidents at work, but also social dumping because you do not know your rights. Poland is well on its way to building itself up to be an economic power in Europe. It will therefore be important for Norwegian investors to participate in this development today and in the future. Norwegian-Polish industrial cooperation has only started and there are several areas where closer links can be established. There are many in Poland with a high level of education and several universities with a high level of competence. This should provide opportunities for several Norwegian universities and colleges to start cooperation on research projects, but also student and teacher exchanges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e900	Let me first answer some questions. First to the question from Rotevatn about Norway's commitment to energy efficiency: we have decided to include the Building Energy Directive – with some adaptations – and we have the Energy Efficiency Directive under assessment. Let me say that with regard to the issue of tax exemptions and the ESA case of tax exemptions for municipalities and counties, we have notified the Stortinget about this matter in the municipal proposal, and both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Municipal Affairs will keep the Stortinget informed about the future. Then I would like to mention – since the Mediterranean and the situation there has been a major topic in the debate – that we are pleased that the EU and Italy agreed yesterday to extend the scope of operation of the Triton operation, so that it gets a similar extent as Mare Nostrum. It is also interesting to note that the Commission has presented – again – proposals for sharing responsibilities with regard to refugees and migrants and will try to bring them up for discussion at the June European Council. Let me say to the question of the United Kingdom: Norway is served by a strong EU. We are served with a strong Europe, and the EU is the engine of European cooperation. That is why we are serving a strong EU security policy, foreign policy and economic. We believe that the United Kingdom will contribute to it – and a stronger British commitment will contribute more to it. We also serve legislative development and a direction in the EU that is practical, unbureaucratic and based on the Europe of the nation states. The United Kingdom is contributing to this. While it is true that a UK membership of EFTA would strengthen EFTA, it is still not the case that it is in the EFTA rules for EEA countries. They are made in the EU. That's why we deserve the United Kingdom to sit at that table. Then I haven't been to London and talked down the EEA. It actually agreed to describe the EEA in order to get a relatively clear message from the UK that they were not interested in it. It has been made very clear by Prime Minister Cameron. Let me finally say that I am pleased that Simensen took up the importance of the EEA, and stress that the alternatives to the EEA are all worse. Therefore, it is important that we protect the EEA agreement against the accusations that are coming. A free trade agreement will create uncertainty about Norwegian salmon exports, it will create uncertainty related to shipping, related to finance, and it will not give us free movement of labour. It is true that the EEA is liberal in the sense that it facilitates free trade, that it facilitates free movement, but it also provides common rules that guarantee both freedoms and rights. There is no threat to Norway; there is no threat to democracy. On the contrary: If you are afraid of raw capitalism, it is not Europe that you should look at first. Europe and the EEA are our protection in a globalised economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e921	Nothing is more important for Norway than the dramatic happening within the EU. And the dramatic thing – everyone knows – is the evolution of the labour market. When there is uncertainty in the labour market, insecurity in income to live off, it creates fundamentally unstable political conditions. The World’s oldest organization, the ILO, from 1919, is seriously concerned and draws parallels between what is now happening and what happened during the inter-war period in Europe. The solution in the U.S. in the mid-war period was the New Deal policy, which produced great and good results because one saw the basic contexts and regulated capitalism in a foregone way. The EU is currently investing in greater flexibility in the labour market, because – as they say – there are considerable rigidities in the euro area countries. This work for flexibility, in order to remove the rigidities, encounters a lot of popular resistance, for behind the words lies the insecurity of those who have the weakest political/economic power. This isn't sustainable. It's a development that needs to find its solution, how much money will have to be written off, because the debt is too big. The question is how to do that. There is a need for a thorough, fundamental debate here in the United Kingdom on the cause of this insecurity in the labour market in Europe, which has a major impact on Norway. It is to me a cross of thought that this debate is short, that speaking time is short, and that the commitment is small, while in the matters of the Control Committee, where one looks back, there is long speaking time, great commitment. It's a great cross of thought that the Storting is not more concerned with what's ahead, with what's happened. I hope that there can be a discussion on a different basis here, where one can go into the causes of what is, because it is so essential for us – that we can have a discussion about the principle error that is the consequence of the lack of economic muscles at EU level to realise a correction of market forces. It is therefore a cross-thinking that the Council of States is now once again talking about ‘the Europe of the Nation’ — yes, he is not even talking about the EU of the Member States in the last speech — when we know that what is the whole objective of the EU, given the plan of the leaders, is a political/economic community that is something quite different from the Europe of the nation states.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e935	I thought I heard Lundtigen say that Europe is important to us, and that is at least progress! Because it seems that the opposition has a love for discussing things that we do not have an influence on and are not part of, because we are not members – nor can we, because we do not have full insight – and therefore I want to take a look at the Navarset's perception of investor protection. As for that description: I don't know how to picture it for Navarsete, but if the Norwegian State is going to build a road, the Norwegian State has a law that allows us to build that road, but we also have a law that protects the landowner from the fact that the state only comes and takes the values. So we have a protection against the state coming and taking the values of individuals in its own interest. That's what we're talking about. It is not to protect investors against commercial risk, the kind of risk, it is simply a protection of those who place money in other countries, against states coming and changing the framework conditions so much that profitability goes away. Of course, if these are completely new framework conditions, every investor will demand compensation. I don't know if that's what's happening in Germany, and what's happening in Egypt, but there's a lot of examples of countries that have chosen to go to nationalisation, which is the ultimate consequence of lack of investor protection, and that's the sure way to a decline in wealth. Making sure that investors all over the world have the security to place money in other countries, I think is one of the fundamental things to get growth in the world. Just to illustrate: there are 3,000 contracts around the world of the type of investor protection. Europe – or the EU – has 1,400 of them, and we have 14. Norwegian business requires this, because it is actually a prerequisite for our international business to go into other markets and invest out. It's almost impossible to believe that a small country – which is so internationally engaged, and which has as much capital as we through the state put out – describes this kind of agreement in that way. There is, of course, a balance, and one has to find the balance between the fact that, as I said at the outset, the state should still have the opportunity to regulate, to take into account culture, the environment and all that there, while at the same time providing protection to those who actually invest out, which is the basis for creating jobs and growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e944	I will also join those who have given positive feedback to the Council of State for a broad and good presentation. I would also like to say that there has been a good debate today, but I fully agree with Lundtigen: The time is too short! These are important issues, which should have received much better treatment, broader treatment, given the challenges we face. Let me say that this is not about yes or no to the EU, or yes or no to the EEA Agreement: it is about finding solutions where Norway can meet the major challenges in the best way within the contract agency we have, and there this government has put itself on a whole new line that I fully share. Once we have a framework and a contract agency to deal with, it is important that we are offensive and are much more involved in the spring game in order to get the best solutions for Norway. I am not optimistic about what is happening in the EU, and that is because I don't think everything will go well. I am also not a pessimistic person when I see developments in the European Union, and that is because I do not think everything is going wrong, either. But within that there must be a lot of hope, and that is what we have to stick to. That is why it is important, I believe, that in the future we will also take on board the major and thorough debates, which I feel Lundtegen is also calling for, on the issue of sovereignty and the right to self-determination. It is given too little attention, since in 1992, the EEA Agreement has transferred the authority – or given sovereignty – to EU or EFTA bodies 13 times, using Section 26 of the Basic Law, and there are many cases on the way. There I quote Jusprofessor Eirik Holmøyvik, who says: It may not be the individual case that is serious; it is the many small transfers of authority in sum that constitute a significant interference in Norway's sovereignty and right of self-determination. That debate seems to me to receive too little attention. We now see that it concerns energy union, personal data and consumer protection, consumer associations, railway package, aviation, violation of competition rules, etc. – significant issues, where Norway needs to have a hard hand on the steering wheel to control these developments. One could have spent a great deal of time on the EU’s new, possibly migration policy. There are many issues and many measures on which there will be a major debate within the European Union, but what is essential in view of the debate we have at home is that perhaps more countries within the European Union should take greater responsibility for the migration policy to be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e957	There is something fascinating about Lundtigen's busyness of what he calls an embedded system error, and which he thinks must end. But he is right that EU cooperation, as well as the single currency, is something new and out of date. I think that if those who started this in the 1950s had been able to see how that work has evolved today, they would never have dreamed that it was possible to get so far in so integrated cooperation between now 28 countries – and they have overcome counter-representations and problems along the way. It's not the first time anyone has said that this is no longer going. I think Lundtigen underestimates the ability and ability of policy to solve problems. Robert Kennedy quoted in his speeches often Robert Frost, who said: Too many see the world as it is, and say, "Why?" I dream of things no one has seen, and I say, Why not? I think Lundtigen needs a little bit more of that attitude. It is not the European Union that governs the economic policies of the countries. EU cooperation provides a framework. They agreed on no more than 3 pst. deficit, not more than 60 pst. liabilities. It was not possible for countries to keep up when the financial crisis hit. They have now done a great deal about financial cooperation, but within those frameworks it is the responsibility of the EU countries to pursue economic policies. It is Greece’s responsibility that they have led the country into the ‘unsuccess’. Then they have to be helped out of it, and it is done through the IMF and through EU cooperation. But the central question is, who's going to take the bill? As Lundtigen says, it might have to be a debt write-down. But who's going to take the bill? The debate called for by Lundteg is led on the wrong premises if you say it is Brussels that decides. It is therefore the EU countries that agree on rules and measures. So a little bit about social security exports, which several have affected. I just want to challenge those who are so busy about it, to think through about a tightening, a change, in that regulation will also affect Nordic cooperation. In fact, the Helsinki Agreement goes beyond EU cooperation or EEA cooperation. Then Swedes get rights from day one when they come to Norway. And these parties, who are concerned about this when they're in the Nordic Council, what do they say there? Are they constantly trying to remove any obstacle that makes it harder to live across the North? Finally, I think it is interesting that Heikki Holmås is calling for the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive. Why in the world is that? Wouldn't he stand outside of this collaboration because we're going to be able to do exactly what we want in that area? It's just to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e970	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e973	Gunnar Gundersen still finds it a problem that I am critical of the investor-state solution. I understand well what's behind a wanted investor state. It protects companies like Telenor and Statoil when they invest in poor developing countries. Perhaps we should instead help to develop a legal system in those countries, because the point of these solutions is that one jumps over the national legal system. All foreign companies can sue the Norwegian State, within the Norwegian legal system. Philip Morris tried it when we noticed tobacco, but they lost. In such an investor-state dispute resolution, therefore, there is an international, supranational right, in which they do not have judges but brokers, well paid those, who make their decisions. Decisions are often secret, and substitutions are often in the billions class. Many could have said about this, it's coming back to us, but it's an important matter that has a wide discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e978	The representative, Lundtigen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e981	I would like to thank Mr Hansen for coming a little further. Now it's a confession that there's a question of who's going to take the bill. It is a recognition that what the EU is doing is new and unruly. It's a recognition of what happened in the 1950s, it was corrected at the end of the 1940s, that's where it started. Whether it has come further or shorter than a dream, I do not know, but what was the dream at that time was at least the establishment of the United States of Europe, as an economic, political union. The representative Hansen says that I underestimate the policy's ability to solve problems. No, I don't -- if the system is such that the elected representatives have the tools to solve the problems. But that's exactly what's the problem. EU countries, on a national basis, decide so much that for what is decided at the overall level, economic instruments are not available through a Ministry of Finance and a Minister of Finance. It is one of the main problems, and it has to be debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e988	Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e991	I think it would also help to bring the debate forward if Lundteg could put aside his claim that this cooperation is actually a supranational union. These are supranational provisions, but they are the Europe of the countries. The countries retain their independence. It is also one of the new innovations in this cooperation that we agree to jointly address single challenges, which can only be solved jointly. Some authority is transferred to joint bodies and institutions, but one retains its autonomy. I don't think Lundtigen believes that Germany is not an independent country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e996	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1010	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1017	First of all, thank you very much to the Committee for a good cooperation on a demanding matter. Although we do not agree, cleanliness in treatment is important in order to achieve goals. Then I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to note that for the first time almost half of the Storting opens to recognise Palestine without a peace agreement – although of course it would have been an advantage. It is the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that ensure that it is not a majority. There is currently no negotiated process to ensure a two-state solution and peace between Israel and Palestine. There is no will or ability to take action that contributes to a solution. Israel's construction of settlements on occupied territory continues. The Prime Minister of Israel excludes the establishment of a Palestinian State, which in the long term is also a tragedy for Israel as a state. A negotiated two-state solution would actually give Israel safer borders. A short time ago, the Jerusalem Planning and Building Committee decided to authorise the construction of 900 new housing units in the occupied area of the city – in the neighbourhood of Ramat Shlomo in East Jerusalem. The construction is illegal and represents another obstacle to the work of a two-state solution. Then both the United States and the EU have protested, without any impact on the Israeli government. Today, the result of occupation, annexation and a targeted housing policy is that Palestine consists of a number of isolated areas — almost enclaves. Therefore, we believe that if there has been no real progress in the peace process towards a two-state solution and the construction of non-international settlements continues, Norway should recognise Palestine as its own country. If we look at developments overall in the Middle East, it is characterized by war, extremist violence, political disintegration, terror and assault. In view of this regional backbone, a Joint Committee considers that a political solution between Israel and Palestine is more important than ever and that the establishment of a Palestinian State will have a positive impact on the whole region. Unfortunately, the political outlook for a sustainable Palestinian State within internationally recognised borders is weaker than for a long time. This probably sounds very pessimistic. But in the evening post 26 May Harald Stanghelle says the following about this: ‘Unfortunately, there is a solid basis for such pessimism.’ So it should be added: Of course, there is division in Israel. In fact, there are those who are afraid that their policies will lead to further isolation. Palestine is also fragmented, and yesterday we were told of Hamas’ liquidations by political opponents in the Gaza Strip. Terrorism and violence against civilians are also, of course, undermining a political solution. It must be prepared by two parties to reach an agreement on a two-state solution, a peace settlement and a negotiated solution. As the situation now is, the Labour Party and several other parties in this Chamber believe that we should go in to recognise Palestine, and that a peace agreement and a UN decision should not be a condition, although of course it is an advantage. Finally, there is no tradition in the United Kingdom of directing the government of foreign policy through decisions. But almost half of the Stortinge today gives the Foreign Minister a powerful signal that Palestine must be recognised as part of a two-state solution. There's no other way now to create peace in the Middle East than to go to that step, if no other action works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1048	We are concerned that developments in the Middle East are marked by war, extremist violence, political disintegration and fundamental violations of international and humanitarian law. Both Israeli and Palestinian use unacceptable instruments, which hamper the possibility of a peaceful solution. The expansion of settlements on the Israeli side undermines respect for international law and hampers the peace process. It also does the use of violence and terror on the Palestinian side. We still see creepy examples from both sides. The Israeli proposal to refuse Palestinians to drive a bus on the West Bank fortunately put Netanyahu down his foot. The rocket attacks on Israel continue, while Israeli fighters attack Hamas. A recent Amnesty report shows that Hamas tortured and killed several Palestinians during the Israeli military offensive against the Gaza Strip last year. Amnesty believes that the Islamist group used the conflict to get rid of political opponents. This is a conflict with many facets. The right considers that a political solution to the conflict is more important than ever. The lack of progress in recent peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine is alarming. Both the United Nations and the Hague International Court of Justice have established that the areas under Israel’s control during the 1967 war are occupied and that the settlement policy is thus contrary to international law. It is a fact that the pressure on Israel and Palestine is increasing to go back to the negotiating table. The international community, including Norway, is impatient and wants Israel and Palestine to really start negotiating a two-state solution. 135 of the 193 UN Member States have recognised Palestine as an independent country, but only eight of them are EU countries. Sweden is the only Western European country that has recognised Palestine as its own country. The formal peace talks between the parties ended last April. Since then, there have been no official contacts between leaders at the top level. In that context, it's almost funny to think about that between the homes of Netanyahu and Abbas is just 14 km. The political distance I almost dare not think about. Norway has a strong commitment in the Middle East. At the request of the parties, we shall continue to direct the coordination of assistance to Palestine in the donor country group, AHLC. As the leader of the donor country group, Norway will have to pay great attention to conveying the growing impatience of the international community. A unilateral Norwegian recognition can now weaken Norway’s leadership role in the AHLC and donor countries’ cooperation for Palestine. It can also make the negotiating trail more demanding and thus weaken the work of resuming negotiations on a two-state solution. Our foreign minister was the first foreign leader to visit Israel after the last elections. Then came the EU’s Frederica Mogherini, and to her Netanyahu, according to The Guardian on 21 May, said: ‘In support the vision of two states for two peoples [[...]] I think it is important to stress here in this debate that there is a cross-political consensus in Norway that the Palestinian people have the right to self-determination. That is why I think it is also wise that the majority of the Committee on the proposal for a document 8 does not instruct the Government on individual issues in foreign policy, and that it is therefore not proposed to introduce new policies in this area – as the chairman of the Committee also says to our country on 20 May: ‘It is up to the Government to define foreign policy.’ And as my honourable co-representative and case-rapporteur Marit Nybakk also says in the same newspaper: ‘It is no Norwegian tradition that Stortinget instructs Norwegian foreign policy.’ It is very worrying how the situation of the Gazan population is — not least that the reconstruction of the Palestinian region is so slow. More than 100,000 people are still homeless. The international community is not quick enough to fulfill its commitments for assistance. Help and lasting solutions are urgent. Our foreign minister makes wise judgements on how Norway can best proceed, step by step, and on how Norway can contribute to the process of achieving the goal of a two-state solution. He has also heard the impatience in this room. I share the assessment that it is not appropriate to recognise Palestine as a country of its own now. Norway has better opportunities for influence and dialogue with both Israel and Palestine as heads of the donor country group. Norway shall use that position to press the parties to resume peace talks. The governance of Norwegian policy must be how we can best contribute to real negotiations on a two-state solution that lasts over time. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1082	The road to a two-state solution where the Israelis and Palestinians can live peacefully side by side does not seem to have been shorter in time – unfortunately. I will begin by stressing the fundamental support of the Advance Party for a two-state wage that includes a future Palestinian state. This is still an objective for the Progress Party to support if, and although there may be different ways to achieve this, we are quite clear that, in our opinion, it would be to go on a blind path if, in a country-by-country approach, a Palestinian state was recognised by the various parliaments. By recognising a Palestinian state before it is a reality, one will not come closer to the goal of a peaceful and viable solution to the eternal conflict in the Middle East. Rather, by recognising a Palestinian state now, one risks that the process towards a final peace settlement will not only be put on hold, but will be set back. According to the opinion of the Progress Party, Palestinian state formation can first see the light of day through a UN decision and after a negotiated peace settlement between the parties. It is positive that a unanimous committee emphasises the need for further negotiations to be accompanied by the commitment of both parties to refrain from acts undermining a two-state solution. Unfortunately, it is the rule rather than the exception in the Middle East debates that almost all the blame for the lack of momentum towards new negotiations is thrown over to one party, namely Israel. For some, there is a deep need to point out and defend the obvious right of Israel to defend its inhabitants against violence and terror by militant Islamic organizations on the Palestinian side. The Progress Party has no difficulty in pointing out that the construction of new buildings in disputed territory is not a constructive contribution by Israel. That's why we don't have a problem taking a distance from this either. But the Progress Party disagrees with those who try to present this as the main challenge in the Middle East conflict. The Progress Party will underline what should be a matter of course for all parties in this Chamber, namely the right of Israel to defend its citizens against violence and terror by militant Palestinian organisations. Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist organisations, by their aggression, do not contribute constructively to a process towards an independent Palestinian State. The party of progress is not only a friend of the Israelis but also a friend of the Palestinians. But it is precisely because we are also a friend of the Palestinians that we are not a friend of Hamas and similar Islamic terrorist organizations on the Palestinian side. No party in the Middle East conflict is flawless, neither is Israel. It's often actually Israel's first to admit. But unlike all the other countries in the region, Israel is a fully-fledged democracy with a well-functioning rule of law, a free press, a diverse political debate and a varied multi-party system. The Israeli media are independent, and they often criticize their own government. Religious freedom is also a characteristic of Israel. It would almost be tempting to challenge someone in this room if they could mention another country in the region that has religious freedom, which has free press, where it is allowed to criticise the sitting government and which is a democracy. I think I know the answer to that. Some of these decisions have often been taken around the parliaments. Then I just want to point out, for example, decisions in the UK Parliament, where less than half of the Members of Parliament met and voted on the matter of recognition. I can also refer to the Spanish Parliament, where it is presented as being in favour of the recognition of the Palestinian State now. The reality is that the resolution was amended just before, and the text now goes on to recognise by a negotiated solution. So some of these decisions that have been taken around the parliaments are being abused. To conclude, recognising a Palestinian state at the forefront of any negotiated peace settlement will be an act of irresponsibleness, activism and populism. None of this should characterise Norwegian foreign policy. That is why it is a good thing today when this proposal is voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1105	The Christian People's Party has long had a strong commitment to peace, democracy and human rights in the Middle East. Historically, this region has experienced more wars than most. The people have not lived in democratic societies, with one single exception: the State of Israel. And the region is characterized by many and gross violations of human rights. In recent years, the war in Syria and the war in Iraq have dominated the news image. The hope of an Arab spring is riddled by brutal warfare with enormous civil suffering. In Syria, the old authoritarian Assad regime is heavily challenged by extreme Islamic armed groups. The same applies to parts of Iraq. The rawness of the Syrian civil war is so extensive that most of it is bleached in comparison. The unresolved conflict between Israel and the Palestinians comes easily into the background when the media around the world focuses most on the threat posed by Islamist terrorist groups in a number of Arab countries. We must not forget our commitment to a peaceful solution for Israel and the Palestinians. It is positive that there is a cross-political consensus in the debate on the importance of a peace settlement – a two-state solution. Such a peace solution must give Israel security and peace within recognized borders, and the Palestinians self-government, democracy and peace within their own state. Unfortunately, the prospects for such a negotiated peace today are weaker than for a long time. We're all sorry about that. Nearly a peace agreement was the parties under the mediation led by former U.S. President Bill Clinton. Around the turn of the century, many lived in the hope of a rapid peace agreement. Now the hope is weaker than it is for a long time. Both Israeli and Palestinian leaders must bear their share of the responsibility for not creating a basis for a peace solution. Compositions and lack of freedom to move freely because of military checkpoints frustrate the Palestinians. Suicide actions by Palestinian killers inside Israel, rockets from Gaza Stripe against civilian Israeli targets and Palestinian state wages and honours to prison terrorists frustrate the Israelis. What has made peace negotiations most difficult in recent times is the Palestinian split – political and geographical. The Islamic organization of Hamas has literally spoken of bombing the climate of peace negotiations in several rounds. They refuse to accept the State of Israel's right to exist. For the two-state solution is not the goal of Hamas, for they are the goal of a one-state solution, an Islamic Palestine that also covers Israel's territory. For this reason, we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the Committee of a Consultant stresses the importance of a Palestinian-side assembly, and that this assembly is based on the three basic demands of the Middle East Quartet of the United Nations to Palestinian groups such as Hamas. What is needed to restore a genuine peace process are actions that dampen the level of conflict, eliminate frustration, build fear and build trust between Israelis and Palestinians. For peace is to create. Recognising a notional Palestinian state that does not meet normal country requirements will not contribute positively to a negotiating climate. Rather, it can create extra barriers for a peace process. I am therefore pleased that the committee reading shows that there is not a multiple for Norway to recognise Palestine as a state of its own right now. In our view, a peace agreement has to be in place first, then recognition comes naturally. Norway's ability to contribute to such a peace process lies in our unique role as leader of Palestinian gypsy cooperation. A one-sided Norwegian recognition now may weaken the leadership role of Norway. In addition, it is important and proper to stick to the line that changing Norwegian governments until now have stuck to in the matter of recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1126	It is an important and serious case SV has looked at the agenda in Stortinget through this private bill. I would also like to thank Marit Nybakk for his clean and good work as a case manager in a demanding case. No one who has followed developments in the Middle East for many years can be left untouched by some of the hopeless conditions under which human beings live in this area. War, extremist power, political instability and fragmentation and fundamental violations of international and humanitarian law are everyday human beings. There is a broad political agreement in Norway about a two-state solution and the establishment of a Palestinian state. Norway has been an active force for negotiations that would lead to this goal. The ever-expanding international-unlawful Israeli settlement of occupied land, and the violence and terror of Palestinian groups against civilian Israelis, make the hope of peace and a negotiated two-state solution seem to be far away. After decades of strong faith that a negotiated peace agreement between Israel Palestine must come before the establishment of a Palestinian State, there is now increasing support for the approval of the State of Palestine, without an agreement with Israel. Sweden approved Palestine in October last year. During the fall, parliamentary majority in the United Kingdom, Spain, France and Ireland have voted for non-binding decisions to approve Palestine as a State. In Denmark and Finland, too, the party is pressing for approval. Parliamentary pluralities for these decisions are not mandatory for governments' choices, but there is a strong signal of a common international belief that the time is ripe for a new policy in this area. There is a broad international agreement that the Palestinian people have the right to self-government. This has also been decided by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Self-government means that the Palestinians have the right to create a country of their own, if that is what they want. Norway has already granted a far-reaching approval to a Palestinian State through the upgrading of the Palestinian representation in Norway to the Ambassador's rank. The goal of an independent Palestinian state has been a central part of Norwegian Middle East policy for several years. Until now, Norwegian policies have been based on a premise that the State of Palestine cannot be approved until a negotiated agreement has been reached between the parties. The peace process in Israel and Palestine is now being halted, and it is difficult to see clear prospects for reconciliation. At the same time, the settlements on the West Bank increase, and the blockade of Gaza continues. Researchers have stressed that if the Palestinians are still being countered in their work for international recognition, this could lead the Palestinian people to perceive that the peaceful negotiating line is not leading. This could provide the basis for recruitment to more extreme groups, and the number of extreme, optional groups on the Palestinian side is growing. For the time being, Hamas is able to control most of the extreme groups, but that image can change quickly. It is important to stress that a solution to the conflict must also safeguard Israel's security. Israel fears that an approval of Palestine as its own state, without a negotiated agreement, will make it harder to prevent some groups from using power. The Palestinian administration is sick today, and there is fear in Israel that this can make Palestine a haven for groups that will hit Israel. The establishment of a Palestinian State requires pressure on Palestine from many countries to effectively combat terrorist groups. There is today no real peace negotiations on an agreement that ends the occupation and gives Israel and Palestine security. If nothing is changed, there is little to suggest that such real negotiations will start. The Palestinian leadership and the Palestinian people must believe that it pays off, and that it does not punish itself to continue the work against liberation along a diplomatic, non-choice trail. The Central Party supports the principle of the approval of a Palestinian State. New international initiatives for a negotiated solution must be taken with a time limit. If such initiatives do not take place, the Central Party and the great minority believe that Norway must in such a situation recognise Palestine as its own country. The situation now, it can't go on. It does not provide peaceful coexistence, nor does it provide for the future – neither for the Israeli people nor for the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1147	The situation in the Middle East has been marked by evil death, innocent civilians on both sides and chaos and conflict for terrible many years. There is an extremely demanding situation — a totally unsustainable situation. The situation in Syria has not exactly made neighbouring countries safer and has made the situation in the Middle East extra demanding. Here there is an alarming need for peaceful development, rapid peaceful development, and the need to approach this has become greater than ever. A dynamic must be created, a development towards a two-state solution. Prime Minister Netanyahu won the election that he wanted one state, and just after the election he talked about a two-state solution. The Knesset consists of 120 representatives, where a large majority, around 80, do not want negotiations, while a large minority, 40, believe that a Palestinian state will be an advantage for both Israelis and Palestinians. This part of the members of the Knesset are very concerned with an international commitment to finding a solution, and Norway must also take its part here. With the blessing of the Israeli government, however, residence in the occupied area continues, and this process cannot continue. Internationally, 133 of the 193 countries of the United Nations have recognised Palestine as their own country. It's a strong signal. In Norway, most people agree that a two-state solution is a target. This has been agreed for a long time. The result, however, is waiting. We also see that in Israel many see the recognition of Palestine as an important way to get the negotiations back on track. We're all familiar with a plug that's been sent to us, signed by many prominent people on the Israeli side. For the Left, it is important that negotiations start again and that peace can be achieved. Then we see that recognising Palestine can be what it takes for these negotiations to actually move on. It's important to let words and actions relate. When the oil fund went out of Elbit, it was noticed. This is a way to put action behind the requirements. Where the country should be, and how we're going to find a viable solution, is related. Such a situation is on the West Bank today, more and more talk about a apartheid regime, a country where many lack fundamental rights. Whatever the concept of the situation, it is obvious that there is a lack of a viable solution. The expansion of settlements on the Israeli side and the use of violence and terror on both sides as political instruments undermine respect for international law, and it hampers the peace process. We have to move on. It also states that the borders of Palestine must be drawn, and they must be respected. As far as governments are concerned, several parliaments in other countries have recently expressed support. We here at Stortinget can express what this Parliament thinks, but it is the government that acknowledges. The left wants today's government to take such an initiative, and the government can feel secure on the Left's support for such an initiative. The parties must also return to the negotiating table. The left will not demand that there be a negotiated outcome before the recognition of Palestine, but has a demand that negotiations actually begin. If corruption and government want Norwegian recognition of a Palestinian state, it does not mean that a state is actually established. But it can mean a dynamic that makes you move on in a vitally important peace process, which today is not a process. Therefore, the Left believes that the Norwegian Government should help the parties to sit down at the negotiating table again, and recognises Palestine as a state of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1169	I often get questions about why I and others on the left are so busy with Palestine. There are many places in the world where there is much, much worse, there are many who say – as a Christian People's Party instead. That's it. I don't think there's so much disagreement here in the Storting about taking a distance from the world's dictatorships or the worst wars in the world, but there's a disagreement about this, even though it shouldn't have been. The left side only supports Palestine because they are against Israel, or even hate Israel, there are some others who say. Then I turn it off. They haven't understood anything. I think it's the other way around. The Labour Party was for several decades the most Israel-friendly party in Norway, and the SFs enthusiastically wrote about the kibbutz and the Israeli state project. In addition to the 1970s and 1980s, it turned around. Israel is today one of the world's least popular countries, but really the country is so similar – and in many ways very similar to ours. And then we expect so much more than keeping a people trapped in occupation for decades after decades. Two years ago, I visited a man named Abu Nahar. He lives in a small village called Fasayil Al-Wusta in the Jordan Valley. Four years ago, the Israeli military began to level its village with the earth. And the week before I met him, his and his family's house was run over by a bulldozer and completely crushed – not for the first time or second or third or fourth, but for the fifth time. All he had left was two tents which they have received from the Palestinian Red Crescent, for the ten people in the family. All that's left of the small part of the town is small tents and ruins after ruins after ruins. In the middle of the remains of their last house is the entrance door left alone, as a sort of lonely monolith over all the destruction. The door was the only thing that survived the demolition. Serving tea in the ruins of a house that's torn five times, from a serving table that rests on bulldozer tracks, is quite a powerful diet. The little house of Abu Nahar and the family has no strategic significance. Many houses are destroyed in warriors, and innocent ones are hit, but this is not even war. It is systematically destroying families that are defenceless, in an area where only one party uses violence and weapons. It's kind of a moral bulwark. It's a kind of moral bankruptcy, driven by populist politicians, reckless new builders and a very powerful defense power, made by a country that we expect so much more of. All the boasts of Israel that Kristian Norheim of the Progress Party stood for are an argument for voting for the recognition of Palestine today. Benjamin Netanyahu speculates in these destructions. He is well aware that he has a right to veto any progress for peace in practice — as long as Norway waits to recognise Palestine with relaxed formal arguments. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is today going to say that the recognition of Palestine will harm the peace process – and it is perhaps the greatest self-deception in this debate that there is some special peace process to talk about. Wait until there's a peace agreement, the government says. We are all waiting in breathless excitement for this peace agreement, which is obviously going to occur entirely on its own, in a vacuum, regardless of the outside world's pressure on the occupying party. The Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to advise Norwegian industry not to trade in Western Sahara. He likes to impose sanctions on Russia for its illegal occupation of Ukraine. That is the policy we in SV support. But not one instrument is weak enough for the Minister of Foreign Affairs when it comes to the occupation of Palestine. The peaceful Palestinian freedom movement has built its strategy on international recognition. Those who serve most of Israel's sabotage of the peace process are the extreme forces in Palestine that the Christian People's Party uses as arguments to vote against. The most important contribution Norway can make to all the good, peaceful forces in Palestine now is to give them greater legitimacy and permeability – not confirming Hamas and Islamic jihad’s story that the only resistance that gives effect is violent resistance. It has understood more than 130 countries in the world, now last Sweden. Thousands of outstanding Israelis have delivered their clear message to the Stortinget: Our contribution is needed. The occupying party must not be allowed to set the conditions. I think everyone agrees in principle on this matter. Israelis and Palestinians don't talk anymore. Their youth does not meet. The children learn to fear each other. Who knows what ideology the children of Abu Nahar will swear to after coming home from school for the sixth time to new ruins. In the last ruins of the house of Abu Nahar, I saw a torn school book. Under the bulldozer tracks, knowledge and wisdom were buried. We can dig it out. The Labour Party said in the introduction that it is the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party that ensure that there is no majority in this matter. That's wrong. I am disappointed that the Labour Party is also voting against our proposal, but there is still time to change and follow the calls from both the Palestinians themselves, Norwegian People's Aid and Norwegian Solidarity Movement and vote in line with their own national meeting decisions. I honestly thought that the Workers' Party was able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1195	The representative will take up suggestions, I think?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1199	I will take up the proposals from SV with the greatest joy and pride.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1204	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1207	Norway voted in favour of the UN divisional plan in 1947, which recognised the right of both the Jewish people and the Palestinian people to establish their own country. The work on the two-state solution, where Israel and Palestine are independent states in peaceful coexistence, has since been the basis of Norwegian Middle East policy. Norway contributed to the majority of the UN Security Council in 1949 to take Israel as a member of the UN. Since then, we have been a solid supporter of the Jewish people. Norway also established contact with the PLO after the PLO accepted the two-state solution and became the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. Norway will also recognise a Palestinian state. Palestine meets the criteria that traditionally require state formation. The donor country group for Palestine, which met yesterday, said in April 2011 that the building of Palestinian state institutions was successful and that the Palestinian authorities are institutionally ready to form a state. The Parties agreed in the Oslo Agreement that the outstanding and difficult issues can only be resolved through bilateral negotiations. The government’s view, as the representatives have also explained in their speeches, is that recognition of the State of Palestine – and this is the same position as the previous government – should be made when a peace solution is in place that the international community can support. How we can best contribute to lasting peace in the Middle East must govern our policies. After the last week's visit to Israel and Palestine and the important meeting of the donor country group yesterday, I am more convinced than for a long time that we need to put greater pressure on the parties to return to the negotiating table. I pointed out that there is an urgent need to re-establish the necessary scope for negotiations, the objective of which must be that Israel and Palestine, like two states, exist in peace within safe and internationally recognised borders. Norway is being listened to on both sides. During the visit, I had long conversations both with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Israel and with President Abbas on the Palestinian side. There were important messages from both, and we were given the opportunity to discuss the importance of once again creating political solutions and reopening the negotiations. The Government considers that it is not appropriate for Norway to recognise a Palestinian State in the current situation. Norway has a special role to play. If Norway alone recognises the state of Palestine now, it will weaken and not strengthen our ability to contribute to a peace settlement. Such an action will only close doors. In the current situation, there are, in particular, two challenges. On the one hand, Israel's international lawless settlement policy continues, which undermines the work of peace. I made it clear in the talks with Prime Minister Netanyahu that before two-state solution negotiations can be resumed, Israel must make it clear that during the negotiations there must be no new settlements. On the other hand, the extra forces actually strengthen on both sides. Now, European countries must be united in the requirement to implement the two-state solution. Support for Palestinian social development must continue. Norway must not take steps to make our work in both of these areas more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1231	Recognition will weaken Norway's role in the peace process, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think it is a problematic position in principle because the purpose of Norway's role is to see progress in this peace process. So if we can't recognise because it can destroy our role, or that we can't distance ourselves from dealing with goods produced on occupied land because it can weaken our role, then we lose sight of what is the goal itself. We've had a discussion before, especially after the crisis in Ukraine, where we distance ourselves from violations of international law and say that we should not buy goods produced in occupied countries, but the same thing does not happen in this conflict. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he would investigate this, but is this not possible because of the role of Norway? Is it so that we cannot distance ourselves from violations of international law in this conflict because we have a negotiating role?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1238	First, I would like to make it clear that in all the conversations I have with Israeli politicians, I make it very clear that Norway is taking a great distance from, for example, Norway. illegal settlements and acts contrary to international law. It's important. And it's only through a two-state solution that you can create lasting and good solutions. The complexity of this, also linked to Norway’s special role as leader of the donor country group, means that we do not think it appropriate at that time to unilaterally recognise Palestine from the Norwegian side. This was also the attitude of the previous government, which crashed for eight years. At that time, former foreign minister and current head of the Foreign Affairs Committee said that Norway does not recognise visions but realities. Norway will be the first country to recognise Palestine at the moment of a negotiated outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1249	We have been told that the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are against sanctions against the occupying economy in Israel, against discouraging trade in goods from the occupied territories and against recognising Palestine as a state, but at the same time the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it is important to press the parties. I have difficulty seeing what it is if you are against all the measures that involve pressure. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs give some examples of what concrete steps he is taking towards Israel to ensure that the occupation can end?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1254	I explained to some of them in the answer to the representative Huitfeldt, what are important issues for Norway when we meet the Israeli leadership. I made it quite clear to the Israeli Prime Minister, Netanyahu, that the settlement must cease immediately. Norway also tries, through its leadership role in the donor country group, to continue building up the necessary Palestinian state institutions to put in place a final peace settlement to contribute to a two-state solution. But it's worth noting that in the eight years SV put in government, that government also led exactly the same policy, that there were no recognized visions, but realities, and I didn't get – maybe I've missed something – that there were sanctions against Israel or advice against investment in the eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1259	On the same day that the Right has turned the issue of coal into the oil fund, it is interesting to be taught by a government council from the Right to vote for something you are against, and the other way around. Now, while SV was in charge, the red-green government voted to upgrade Palestine's status in the UN, and there was also an instruction to all Norwegian foreign stations that it is now called Palestine and not the occupied territories. It is a concrete act that has great significance and that the Palestinians greatly appreciated and that we do not find in the work of the present government in the Middle East conflict. The Minister of Foreign Affairs would like him to make things ‘sounding clear’ in conversations with the Israeli Prime Minister. I don't know how much impression that makes on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. But how can it be that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is more than willing to discourage trade in goods from occupied areas of Western Sahara, and that he is willing to initiate financial sanctions against Russia when they violate international law and occupy other countries, but that it is totally out of date in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1266	I think it's important that we don't make this discussion more polarized than necessary. It is a united Norway that is behind a strong desire for the establishment of a Palestinian state. I spend a lot of my time working to facilitate also for these negotiations to resume, and that we will see a Palestinian state become a reality. It is the only way to guarantee both peace and the rights of the Palestinians in the future. We agree on that. Then I hope I don't get the impression that I was teaching, because that's not what I wanted. I just pointed out that there are complexities in this case, not least because Norway has the role of head of the donor country group, and that we have to go between Israel and Palestine for example. to find the solution that has now been found to free the legitimate tax revenues that are required by the Palestinians. It's these complexities that the red-green government was also facing. Therefore, no sanctions were imposed, no dismissals were made, and no recognition was given. But I'm not saying that there are easy solutions, there are complicated solutions, and I'm asking for respect for it, at least from someone who has experience of sitting in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1273	Palestine's UN delegation has applied for membership of the International Criminal Court in The Hague earlier this year. The Criminal Court will certainly not have jurisdiction over Israel, but will nevertheless be able to go in and deal with cases in which one of my own Israel has violated the Palestinian people. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view the Palestinian application to become a member of the International Criminal Court in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1279	First, I would like to state that it is absolutely essential that the parties, both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side, relate to international law, to human rights. We know that the Israeli settlements are in violation of international law. Looks like we've got a long time. It is essential to be able to achieve a two-state solution that these cease to exist. I don't think it's realistic – after my talks with President Abbas – that they're going to enter into new negotiations without it being guaranteed in advance, which they didn't get in the last round. Then it is right that the Palestinians have declared their membership in the International Criminal Court. We have taken note of this. It is that the ICC will be able to look at violations of international law from the Israeli side, but also from the Palestinian side if that has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1286	I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is busy referring to eight red-green years in his answers to very good questions about today's situation in Palestine. Now it's been two years. The situation is different, because the occupation has continued and has been reinforced. We cannot get a proper response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the dissuade of trade in goods from occupied land. We do that in the case of Western Sahara. There are increasing numbers of EU countries doing so with regard to Palestine. So this is by no means the only one that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is afraid of. Last year, during the Gaza War, the Workers' Party went out and said that the Workers' Party took the position that we wanted to discourage all trade with occupied countries. Then the foreign minister said this was complicated, but he also promised a quick clarification. Is it that the clarification has now come? Is it that the government has decided – there will be no dissuade policy from the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1295	As I said in the second answer, to the SV representative, I think we should all be humble when we deal with this question, because it is complex. What I tried to say is that there are reasons why the red-greens have been investigating for eight years how to most appropriately contribute to increasing pressure on Israel in order to get a real two-state solution. Some of the things that were assessed during these years, too, were with labelling and this with dissuadement. But the big question is to get the political negotiations going again. This is a question that I also discussed with Commissioner Frederica Mogherini yesterday in a conversation. The EU also looks at various initiatives to increase pressure on Israel. We have not concluded on any of these points – nor have the red-greens done in the eight years. So I have at least six years to go on yet, if I'm going to follow that template – but that's not the template I'm following.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1306	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that everyone needs to be humble. It is therefore with some wonder that I record that he cannot refer to decisions on any key points, neither in terms of recognition nor to discourage trade in goods produced in the occupied country, because this did not happen two years ago. But the reality of the peace process is different now. At the Foreign Minister's watch, we see that there is no progress in the peace process. The occupation continues, new bombing of Gaza. Many countries adopt a fundamental recognition of Palestine. Many countries distance themselves from goods produced in occupied countries and do not want to trade with them. So my question is, is it that the peace process makes today's Foreign Minister unable to take a decision on these questions? Every time he is asked to decide on the relevant questions, he refers to eight red-green years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1313	When I referred to the eight years when no conclusion was drawn in several of the questions raised by the representative Huitfeldt, it was to illustrate its complexity, not least the role of Norway. What is important is a resumption of two-state negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis and a return to a Palestinian state. That's what's absolutely crucial. Then there are different instruments. Sweden is the only one of the Western European EU countries that has opted for recognition. The EU has not chosen to go out with it now and considers that there are other steps that are more important. I believe that those who have followed the case about Israel and Palestine have seen that I have at least tried from the first moment I got this job, to stand on and carry on the important work that previous governments have done in the donor country group. Norway has been and is at the heart of the important political consultations that are now taking place to put increased pressure on Prime Minister Netanyahu, so that we are once again beginning to negotiate a two-state solution and peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1324	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1329	It was a little special line change we just finished, where the Foreign Minister asks for humility while he says he has at least six years to decide. If there's something this situation and this debate doesn't have time, it's just time, because there's a lot of people who say they're frustrated that the conflict is so stuck. But if it were just as well, because the conflict isn't locked up, it's not standing still, it changes every single day. The settlements are increasing, the violence continues, and the desperation is increasing. It is not difficult to find problems on the Palestinian side, but we must never lose focus on what is at the heart of the conflict, namely the occupation. Before the elections in Israel in March this year, no one was particularly optimistic, who believed very much that we should now have a different situation. But even without hope, many of us were disappointed. The Prime Minister of Israel used the election call to frighten Arabs from using their voting rights, and as one of his last election vows, he said that under him there would be no Palestinian state. Although he has moderated something, there is no reason to believe that this is an election vow he has not intended to keep. Today's government is the most right-wing government we've ever had in Israel. The new Israeli Justice Minister says that all Palestinians are her enemies. The Israeli Minister of Defence accepted a proposal that Palestinians should no longer take the same bus as Israelis. Fortunately, that proposal was frozen, but that proposal came so far at all, says something about how far it has gone. It's in this picture that we need to discuss our strategy. What can we do to achieve our goal? The best solution is, of course, to recognise Palestine after there is a peace solution on the way. But what if you never get there? What if you're never going to get any state to recognise? Should Netanyahu and the Israeli government be able to set the pace for all of us? That is why politics has changed from many of the parties today. All parties, with the exception of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, today say that they take the principle position of recognising Palestine. The Labour Party says that in government we are ready to do what Margot Wallström and Stefan Löfven did: to recognise Palestine. I hear someone say this won't change anything, that after Sweden did it, things haven't changed on the ground. But the question back to those who say it is, Has our strategy done it? No, our strategy has led to decades where the results have gone the same way. What Sweden has done has made it a new dynamic in the debate. And if that's what we need, it's a new dynamic, because the biggest threat is that everything stays the way it is, that the occupation is constantly getting worse, that the construction of the wall continues, that the blockade of a war-like Gaza remains. We can never allow ourselves to get used to occupation and oppression. For many years I have been doing political work with Fatah Youth, progressive and courageous youth who have fought for their people – people I have met in Palestine and Norway. Today, many of them are in Israeli prisons, and many of them have joined the policy because hope has disappeared. We must give hope to the progressive forces in Palestine. Extreme groups win when negotiations do not lead any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1346	On 17 March this year, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was re-elected. A few days later he formed a coalition government. At the government's first press conference, Netanyahu stressed his desire to continue the peace process with Palestine and with all other Arab countries. The Government Declaration states: «The government will advance the diplomatic process and strive to reach a peace agreement with the Palestinians and all our neighbours, while maintaining Israel’s security, historical and national interests.» If you want to take the opposite of Israel's negotiator to the floor, there are hardly equivalent fair ambitions on the other side of the table. What we know is that one of the parties to the coalition is a UN-defined terrorist organisation, supported by Iran. Hamas has not accepted the almost self-evident principles of Israel's right to exist, to refrain from violence and to accept agreements previously concluded. Rather, on the contrary, Hamas continues its agitation that Israel should be removed from the map. Israel’s unwillingness to make atonement is often referred to. With confidence that today there are nearly two million Palestinians living in Israel, you can think of President Abbas’s statements to Egyptian journalists: «In a final resolution, we would not see the presence of a single Israeli – civil or soldier – on our country». Palestinian society is permeated by hatred and propaganda against Israel and against Jews. From here, conspiracy theories, history falsifications, and not least the indoctrination of young childhood minds flourish. Children are not presented for the possibility that two states can live peacefully side by side. Palestinian textbooks read that the establishment of Israel was a disaster without parallel in history. In the geography books, Israel has been removed from the map. The fight against Israel is presented as a struggle for Islam, and the destruction of Israel is presented as inevitable and as a Palestinian duty. Such indoctrination cannot be explained, ignored or understood. It sticks to young childhood minds, and it lays the groundwork for hate. This hatred is not only reserved for the followers of Hamas. There are attitudes deeply rooted in all environments in Palestinian society. On May 7th this year, Palestinian television presented a map of Palestinian logos throughout Israel, symbolising the Palestinian return. On the website of the Palestinian security forces, on 24 April this year, a map was presented with a large cross over Israel with the subtitles in capital letters, where it said: Die in your rage, Zionists. Do the proposers and their supporters believe that such hate rhetoric, indoctrination and history falsification should be ignored, defended, explained or understood? Or is it thought that institutional intolerance and hatred can be explained by reference to Israel's unwillingness to accept a Palestinian state? Do the proposers and their supporters believe that the conspiracy theories and the desire to remove Israel from the map will cease on the day when the Palestinian territories are given a different territorial status? Or do the proposers perhaps think that the Palestinian attitude toward the State of Israel and Jews is something for which Israel itself can thank? Whatever the motive: the party of progress finds all the alternative explanatory variables morally reprehensible. We've seen what Hamas is able to accomplish by barbarism, and we choose to take them to the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1367	Let me first, as the rapporteur-in-Office, thank you for the debate. Then I have some questions for the Foreign Minister – or a little wonder. Like some others, he has pushed the donor country group in front of him, using Norway’s role in the donor country group as an argument against recognising, both in principle and in fact, Palestine. Now the foreign minister has just been at another meeting of the donor country group. This was a group that was established to support a Palestinian state building. Norway has a very central position as the leader of this group, there is no doubt about it, and it has given us the opportunity to communicate with both parties – that is also true. The questions are, however, at this point in time: Has the donor country group led to anything? Is there any political process resulting from the work of the donor country group? Has the donor country group brought us closer to peace, closer to Palestinian state formation, or to a Palestinian state? It would be interesting to hear what the Foreign Minister thinks about this. And does the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as head of the donor country group, have any plan, any strategy, to move forward towards a two-state solution? As I said in my post, for a while back a decision was taken in Jerusalem Planning and Building Committee to give green light for another 900 housing units on the occupied area of the city. First of all, this is illegal, it's a threat to a two-state solution, and Palestine is soon just made up of single-enclaves surrounded by Israeli areas – it's pure bantustans, to use an expression from a completely different area of the world. What has the Foreign Minister done to deal with Netanyahu and Israel? I have recorded that both the EU and the United States have been out there criticising this strongly. Finally, a Palestinian state as a result of an agreement with Israel has been for the Workers' Party a goal for which we have worked for many, many years. But we're not there now. It's been a long time since we were actually there. There is no process. That is why the Labour Party and several other parties in this Chamber believe that we should recognise Palestine as a state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1378	I had initially not intended to participate in the debate, but there were several of the contributions that prompted my interest to participate. As usual when discussing such a difficult question, such a difficult and complicated conflict, unfortunately, too many people choose to lay down on the simple line – the simple line of representing one party as innocent, as oppressed, while the other party has all the responsibilities and all the blame. I think it came out particularly well in the post of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, when he from this pulpit came up with a story and showed that only one party is using violence. If there is one thing that this conflict really shows, it is that violence is being perpetrated by both parties. But at the same time, there is a difference in nature, because one party is perpetuating violence against civil, civil, is a conscious goal, while the other party is doing what they can to limit the violence in order to protect their civilians. We are talking about the only democracy and the only rule of law in that region. And yes, democracies make mistakes, so has Israel, and still does, but there is still a difference in substance when you talk about democracy against some forces that can in no way be called a democracy. It is the same as when the representative Åsmund Aukrust said from the Chair that the heart of the conflict is Israel. No, the heart of the conflict is violence, terror and that one of the main actors in the conflict, Hamas, has as its primary objective the destruction of the State of Israel. And there's a lot of challenges ahead. Palestinian Media Watch recently demonstrated that the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Self-Government is still involved in the payment of salaries to terrorists convicted of kidnapping, torture, killing and other cruel acts of terrorism. It shows that there are challenges on both sides. Like everyone, the Progress Party wants a peaceful solution to the conflict, with clear borders, a good two-state solution. But if it is to be done, both parties must actually also recognise each other, and violence must cease. And then it's going to be wrong, as others from this pulpit do, to give the impression that it's only one party that has all the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1387	There were some specific questions from the case rapporteur that led me to redraw. As I said in my post, it is important in this case that we polarize no more than necessary. I see that there is a broad consensus in the hall about the importance of finding a two-state solution. It's been too long before you put in place a Palestinian state. The Palestinian people are demanding a Palestinian state, and I have seen it as an important task for me to continue the important Norwegian work over several decades in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. Norway is being listened to, not only on the Palestinian side, but also on the Israeli side. As head of the donor country group, we also need to address many demanding issues between Israel and Palestine, such as: the right of the Palestinians to engage in business and to ensure their basis for future employment by also exploiting area C of the West Bank, which constitutes a large, large area where there are very large restrictions on Palestinian activity, if they are able to carry out any activity at all. This is something I have been talking to the Israeli Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs about, and that we have brought into the AHLC, and that we are going to pursue for the autumn. I mentioned the tax and tax question, where Israel takes care of this, and then refunds to the Palestinian authorities. In terms of greater transparency around this, what the Palestinians get back, Norway is an important player in contributing to this dialogue. I also believe that previous governments have stressed that this role as head of the donor country group has been a positive factor in achieving a two-state solution. If Norway takes a unilateral step and now recognises, or takes unilateral steps, for example: To mark Israeli goods, I think – and I think that was also the reason behind the previous government – that our role in the AHLC will end, and Norway has a role there that is also widely recognised by the Palestinians. The Palestinian Prime Minister, Hamdallah, said to me yesterday that it is important now that we enter into close dialogue with the new Israeli Minister of Finance on this issue. So to Nybakk's main question: has Norway's role in AHLC led to anything? Yes, since the beginning of the 1990s, we have built all the institutions that are now potters to lead a Palestinian state. It's a foreign ministry, it's a finance department, it's the prime minister's office, it's president -- all this is based in the donor country group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1399	It got a little hectic last time I was up here, so I thought I'd talk a little bit slower now. I thought I would refer a little bit from Fatah's websites and official Palestinian TV, from just the last year. It says this: Israel and the Islamic State are twins. Israel is trying to start a religious war that will threaten world peace. Israel is behind the world's warriors and civil warriors. The Islamic State is a piece of an Israeli and American plot to satisfy the Jewish state. The Holocaust was beneficial to the Zionists, for now they can drive extortion to gain compassion. Israel is using the settlers' cars to kill Palestinian children. I could still. It is a derailment to believe that peace between Israel and the Palestinians is a matter of territorial status. Peace can only be achieved on the day that both parties, in word and deed, demonstrate a genuine desire to live in peaceful coexistence within secure defence borders. That's Israel's ambition. But if you have a country full of hate, and who is constantly rebuilding hatred for Israel, it is difficult to have a serious counterpart and discuss peace. So I want to make a call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so far also to everyone else in the Chamber – not least the representative Nybakk, who is concerned about what we are going to do with the donor country group and our commitment there: we should use our leadership to impose conditions on Palestine for the money we transfer: the removal of hate propaganda in schools, public institutions and official media channels. It doesn't require anything but humanity. It costs nothing, and it should be a natural condition for Norway to inject hundreds of millions of dollars in the Palestinian territories. I would like to refer to an old slogan from the Progress Party: «The future is created – it is not adopted!»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1414	There has been an exciting debate to follow. Most of the posts follow a discussion about what might be called a business line, but there is something about some of the posts being held here, where you don't seem to take over the point that there's an occupation going on here — the occupation of a country. And during an occupation – like, for example, the 75th anniversary of this year in the Storting – is it that an occupied people have the right to resist. It seems to be forgotten by some representatives in this room. Of course, you can discuss how to provide resistance, but you have the right to provide resistance to an occupying power – something that the Norwegians also did during the occupation we were under. The working party has taken a step. We have said that it is no longer a prerequisite for us that there is a peace agreement at the bottom, and there is a reason for that: things have changed. Netanyahu has the option again. And I heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs refer to him having been in serious talks with the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs about the possibility of opening up the use of Area C. I'm going to assume that it's the same Vice-Minister of State as on 22 May called a big meeting in the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs and had 106 diplomats on video link. There she had one message: we must stop apologizing for our historic right to this country. We have to prepare the ground and make people international to understand that this is our country. We have a historic right to use this land and build settlements from the river, the Jordan River, to the sea, the Mediterranean. There are new tactics – tactics that do not exactly give hope that a peace process is underway, and that the Israeli government is particularly interested in moving forward in conversations to get the process on the right track or to stop settlements. I think these are very serious signals we hear. We can also read in the newspapers that even part of Israel's own diplomats were quite shocked by the statements that came from the Government of Israel on 22 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1423	It was the post to Erlend Wiborg that made me take the floor. He claimed that I said that the heart of the conflict is Israel. No, I never said that. What I said is that the heart of the conflict is Israel's occupation of Palestine. That's essentially what we're talking about. That's what makes us have this debate about whether to recognise Palestine or not. It's not about two equal partners. It's a people occupied, and a country occupying. There is no balance of power between the two parties. It appears from the statements of the Progress Party that, on the left, Norway has an almost hateful relationship with Israel. It could no longer have been from the truth. The Labour Party has really had a love relationship with Israel. There are many people from the AUF and the Workers' Party who have been in Israel to do solidarity work. It was just the stories from young people who worked on solidarity in the 1980s and 1990s, who came home and told us what they had experienced, who have gradually changed Norwegian policies. They saw a oppression they could not defend. They saw a people who were under occupation. They came home, and since then Norway has changed into one of the most Palestinian-friendly countries in Europe. Many people point to problems on the Palestinian side, that extreme groups are winning. Yeah, that's a big problem, but why do they do it? Well, they do because the peace strategy doesn't lead. Youths who have worked for peace do not win – the extreme groups win instead. I have noticed that the foreign minister warns against a polarized discussion. Well, then he should start with his own government partner, for the husband of polarized posts from the government party Progress Party thought I should not hear today. The beginning of the debate on this matter showed that there was quite a broad consensus on the understanding of reality between the parties – with the exception of the Progress Party. It is alarming that the two government parties have not been able to sign up in the notes. It's not that serious in itself. What gives cause for concern, on the other hand, is that the Progress Party has influence over government's Middle East policy every single day. I do not feel safe when the voices we have heard from the pulpit today are those who will decide what is supposed to be a so-called balanced Middle East policy – unless it is such that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not listen to his government partner, and that the Progress Party does not have any influence on the government's Middle East policy at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1434	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate, although the outcome of the vote does not seem to be very positive. To this end, from the government parties, Norway’s position in the donor country group – Norway’s leadership there is still shown. Today, in practice, the donor countries pay too much of what is Israel's international responsibility as an occupant, on which the representative Nybakk was quite right. And if the consequence of managing this body is that Norway cannot clearly contribute to a genuine peace process, with concrete initiatives, Norway should rather assess whether we should lead the donor country group. What prevents Palestine from clearly fulfilling the conditions of a State existing is the systematic sabotage of the two-state project by the occupying party. It is the occupying country of Israel that ensures that Palestine does not have real territorial integrity today. It seems that the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party in particular, but also the Right Party, overlooks it. Unless the dramatic deterioration of Israeli policies, the ground situation and the increasing disillusioned perception of Palestinian policies are to have consequences for our actions, Norway is helping to tighten the Jordanian knot as the peace process is today. That's the real consequence of refusing to recognise Palestine as a state. Christian Tybring-Gjedde speaks powerfully about extremism in Palestine. I have not heard any representative from any party ever excuse either extremism or antisemitism anywhere. It may be an effective rhetorical tool for the representative Tybring-Gjedde, but neither I nor anyone else in this room recognize themselves – I think – in those characteristics. But it's worth thinking about – and Tybring-Gjedde and others in the Progress Party like to do – the following: What do they think is the best way to prevent extremism in Palestine? Is there an end to the illegal settlements, to the illegal demolitions of houses, to the arbitrary violence of the occupied West Bank and the blockade of Gaza, or is it that today's situation continues as before, and is getting worse more and more? To point out the relationship between the degree of degradation, oppression and humiliation experienced daily by Palestinians, and the form of extremism that arises in Palestine, is not to apologize for anything. It is a fundamental causal link, which should also be taken over by the Progress Party. Finally, a number of good contributions from the Labour Party today have been made to support – today – the recognition of Palestine as a state. We cannot wait until they may have won the 2017 elections. We don't know what the situation is in 2017, but we know that the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1449	First, I will start by doing something that I should have done in my main post, namely thanking the case rapporteur, Marit Nybakk, for a job well done. She has done a good job sewing the notes, despite the fact that there were some disagreements here and there. So over to something that is not praise: I seem to notice that a tone in the debate today is this with a lack of momentum in the peace process. We all agree on that, and we agree that the goal is a two-state solution. Then I think the disagreement is divided there, because there's a part in this room that seems to blame for the lack of progress in the peace process on one side, namely Israel. You talk about the occupation going on, you talk about the bombing of Gaza. It is not mentioned that those who fought for war last summer were the terrorists in Hamas and Islamic sacred war, who have for years daily shot rockets at civilians on the Israeli side. It's also one of the explanations of this war. That is why I also think that we should focus on some of the things that were to be read in an EU resolution last summer, where the European Union called for both the Gaza Strip to enter into the hands of Palestinian self-government authorities and the disarming of all militant groups in the Gaza Strip. Similarly, former peacemaker Terje Rød-Larsen has been in charge. It's a man I don't just think I should listen to, but maybe his party traps should listen to. He advocates an international presence on the Gaza Strip and a demilitarisation of the Gaza Strip. There is much of the core of the way we stand further away from a peace process now than ever, because after Israel withdrew from Gaza, Gaza has come into the hands of the extremists. It brings me to a challenge, because the representative Wickholm began to talk about the Palestinians having the right to deliver resistance, and started with a kind of comparison – a vague comparison, correctly – with the Norwegian resistance during the war. Then it might be interesting to know a little more about what the representative of Wickholm means by this – if, for example, he did. also appears to be able to defend Hamas’ actions and their use of violence and terror and the use of violence and terrorism by other militant groups. I just want to finish with a short quote from Fatah's official Facebook page on May 15. It says read that there is no place for Israel in the region. All the land from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River is ours, it said to read. The same is true of Hamas, who will destroy the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1462	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1465	To Serigstad Valen, who was in the middle of not taking a distance from the hate, etc., which is going on in Palestine: I talked about the rhetoric and how the children are indoctrinated in hatred. That's where the hate starts. It doesn't start with war outside; it starts from the inside – hate against Israel and against the Jews. That's where it starts, that's where the work has to be started. And I didn't come with characteristics; I came with quotes – from Fatah's websites, the so-called liberal party down there, Fatah. I believe that if we are to find a solution, which was requested here, we must actually accept that Israel must have defenceable borders, and then one must sit down and discuss, and the settlement is an unwise strategy on the part of Israel. I also think it should stop. But the point is that we must first accept Israel's right to exist. Then they have to sit down and find a solution. It's not that we can decide here in the Grand Duchy of Oslo and say that it's going to be a Palestinian state and thus it's going to be peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1474	To the change of lines that was here: I have full respect for what the Minister of Foreign Affairs expresses about the complexity of this matter. I consider the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be both honest and despicable, and I understand very well that this is a difficult water to manoeuvre in. We must respect that. I'm not concerned with a constructed disagreement, which you try to create. I understand very well that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the U.D. are working for a two-state solution, and that they are taking the strongest distance from violence and from illegal occupation. Nevertheless, the occupation and violence continue, and I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is: How do Norway and the world come on the offensive to achieve a result that both parties can live with? Is it a right strategy for Norway to stay outside the 133 countries that recognise Palestine? Then I also have a challenge to the Foreign Minister for at least a clarification. I would like to take the strongest – most strongly – away from the representative Tybring-Gjedde has expressed here from the pulpit now on three occasions. The rhetoric that Tybring-Gjedde has, I believe, does not serve either the Stortinget or Norway or the foreign work that Norway is going to do in the world. A challenge will be very strong towards the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take a clear distance from Tybring-Gjedde's statements from here, but a clarification might be in place: is it so that it is with the words and the way the representative Tybring-Gedde expresses himself, which is the way Norway operates its foreign policy? Is that the way you're going to do your foreign work? Or can we assume that the long, good tradition that Norway has had in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regardless of which governments have ruled, is still solid?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1483	I got a general question from the representative Abid Q. Raja related to how we work to get real negotiations on a two-state solution going again. I perceived him at least like this. During my visit to Israel and Palestine now, there was a strong demand on the part of Norway that negotiations be resumed. One complicating factor is that both parties now point to delays due to the current negotiations on a possible nuclear agreement with Iran, and that it is difficult to get started before an agreement – or no agreement – has been reached on this. So we're going to use this donor country meeting during the UN high-level week in New York, where we're going to gather leaders from all over the world, to put two-state solutions on the agenda. We're going to work to increase the opportunities for the Palestinians to create opportunities in the private sector, and I said transparency around tax transfers, the ability to operate in area C. There have also been questions about what Norway has done. Last autumn, Norway hosted the major donor country conference for the reconstruction of Gaza. Yesterday, at the meeting in Brussels, we got an overview of where we stand. Over three years, Cairo promised 3.5 billion. U.S. dollars for reconstruction. This process has gone too late, but now it has been triggered approx. 1 billion. US dollars of $3.5 billion. which was promised over three years. And keeping the pressure on this money to be paid in the future, so that you can start the important reconstruction in a humanitarianly very demanding area like Gaza is now, is also essential. It will then be important for Norway – together with the EU, the United States and others – to reach an agreement that negotiations on a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine must take place on the premise that there will be no new settlements, or the extension of settlements, when negotiating. I do not think, as I said earlier, that President Abbas is willing to go back to that kind of negotiations without it being made clear, and that is an attitude that I also support. Then we will work with the EU on the issue of recognition – and other steps – to increase the pressure on Israel, if it turns out that Netanyahu and the new government are not willing to go back to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1498	There has been a relatively predictable debate and, as I was also involved in my previous speech, also a very distorted debate. One was the representative Truls Wickholm, who strongly defended the right to deliver what he called ‘resistance’ – the right to attack Israel. I think it is particularly special that you can defend that someone has the aim of attacking civilians. Is it a war if you attack military targets? Is that another discussion? But the fact that you can stand on this pulpit and defend targeted attacks against civilian, rockets shot at arbitrarily into Israel, I think is particularly special. But what I thought was the most special post was the last post from the representative Abid Q. Raja – a heartwarming speech against my colleague Christian Tybring-Gjedde, where he asked the foreign minister to distance himself from Christian Tybring-Gedde, and where he thought that there was something wrong with the attitudes. Then I have a question for the representative Abid Q. Raja: Which of the quotations that Christian Tybring-Gjedde came with is what is wrong? Tybring-Gjedde came with specific quotes from other sources, and then I think it is very special that he should therefore be attacked to make quotes from documented sources. I think that's very special. Then there has been one review melody, and that is that the main reason for the conflict is the occupation, and that all the responsibility lies with Israel. Then it is worth recalling that the State of Israel has been under attack, threats and targets of extinction from the re-establishment of the State of Israel, long before the occupation began. We also look at the situation after Israel withdrew from Gaza, how it has evolved in Gaza – without democracy, where terrorist organisations are more or less free to rule, and Israel is being protected from the areas from which Israel withdrew. But what I miss, above all, especially from the Socialist Left Party, but also from the Workers' Party, which is running a certain double game here today, is: Where is the condemnation of terrorism? Where is the condemnation of Hamas? Where is the condemnation of attacks on civilians? I think it's strange that you haven't been able to come, despite so many posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1509	I have not followed the whole debate. It may therefore be unnecessary to say it, but I say it anyway: I don't think there are anyone here in the Great Britain who can accuse the Workers' Party of not being Israel's friend. The Workers' Party has been through it all over history. So are we today. It is not that the Workers' Party does not understand the situation of Israel and the situation to which they are also exposed in the case of attacks on their population. It called for a so-called condemnation of acts of terrorism against Israel. It can come: we condemn it. We do not believe that this is a good policy; we do not believe that it should be recognised; we also believe that it should be condemned. Tragedy – despite at least 40 years of debate on this – is that the situation is difficult for Israel, but above all for the Palestinian people. They've come nowhere. That's the big tragedy. And it doesn't seem that we're able to solve this now either. I think it's really a dead end to what some representatives are trying to say, that the territorial discussion doesn't matter. Well, that's exactly what matters, because the root of the problems is the illegal occupation of countries, an occupation condemned by the United Nations. That's the root of the problem. And it's not just an occupation, it's also an annexation of the occupied area – also it's condemned by the UN at the most. It is this which is, of course, the great terror in the area, that a people are being taken away from their country. It has been annexed, taken over, by the occupying power. That's the problem. There is a great terror in it, in addition to the fact that the areas in which the Palestinians are located are subject to control and boycott in such a way that it is not possible to develop the economy and democracy of the region. This is the problem. And then the political instruments come in, the need for recognition. I hear very well what the Foreign Minister says, but I want to say that his coalition partners, as they say in this Chamber, create a whole new situation and a new mood. It is absolutely legitimate and absolutely necessary, I would say, that the Foreign Minister is commenting on these statements, because we need to know whether this is the backbone of government policy, or whether it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1523	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1526	I did so in my original post as well, but I obviously have no problem condemning Hamas' acts of terror against civilians. I had the mixed pleasure of visiting Gaza in 2013 to talk to and meet many of the youths who are suffering from double oppression: it's the blockade and Israel's occupation, and it's Hamas' religious conservative and reactionary rule. Both of them destroy the everyday life and the hopes for the future of these young people. I also met Hamas and challenged them throughout the meeting on equality, on human rights, on terror, on the things Wiborg is concerned about. The suggestion that someone from the Workers' Party or the Left Party should sympathize with such forces is profoundly unprofessional. But I want to challenge back: does Erlend Wiborg, as the first party representative, want to come up on this pulpit and condemn Israel's international law-enforcement occupation of Palestine, as the United Nations has done, or does the Progress Party intend to stand on the side of international law in the debate as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1535	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1538	I distance myself from all kinds of extremism, it is an extremism of a state by illegal occupation, it is the extremism of the Islamists or the extreme views of the representative Tybring-Gjedde outside and in this hall. But Tybring-Gjedde doesn't worry me, what worries me, is whether such rhetoric should take the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and affect government policy. That's why I think it was great with an embedded clarification in the Foreign Minister's reply to me: the Norwegian line is fixed and has been fixed in the past. UD is working against the occupation, for two-state solution. That preparation is good enough for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1557	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s study of Norwegian clean energy assistance, and the study covers a period of 13 years, from 2000 to 2013. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess the extent to which Norwegian clean energy assistance is in line with the Stortingen’s objective of increasing access to sustainable energy services in order to contribute to economic growth and better living conditions for the poor. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation on this matter, and in particular I would like to thank for the cooperation during the Committee's study trip to Mozambique and Tanzania during the month-end of February/March, where the Committee showed great interest in meetings and inspections. I would also like, on behalf of the Committee, to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the two embassies of Mozambique and Tanzania, respectively, for facilitating a good and professional programme for the study trip, which has helped to provide the Committee with deeper insight into this matter. An important objective of Norwegian development work is to reduce absolute poverty and bring people out of poverty on a sustainable basis. The development of electrical energy is thus an important input in the fight against poverty and the Middle East. S No 93 for 2004-2005, the Foreign Affairs Committee concluded that sustainable development and renewable energy will be important themes of Norwegian development work in the years to come. About 1.3 billion earth’s population do not have access to electricity, and the vast majority live in developing countries in Africa and Asia. In the case of Africa specifically, population growth is so high that it is expected that the number of people without access to electrical energy will increase and not decrease over the next ten years. The National Audit Office's study mainly includes assistance to the seven priority cooperation countries for clean energy, which are Ethiopia, Liberia, Mozambique, Nepal, Tanzania, Uganda and East Timor. During the investigation period, these countries received about 3.9 billion. aid for clean energy. In total, there has been a total of 12.26 billion in the period 2000–2013. aid for clean energy. The Riksrevision report provides the following main findings: Norwegian assistance has contributed little to increasing access to clean energy. Assistance has led to little increase in renewable power generation in the priority co-operation countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs lacks good tools to trigger private investment in countries with weak framework conditions. Norwegian-supported measures for the deployment of electricity networks have low economic sustainability. The assistance to clean energy has reached the poorest to a small extent. Weaknesses in the planning of capacity-building projects give rise to problems in their implementation. The lack of planning and decision-making by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs weakens the ability to manage aid effectively. As part of the examination of the National Audit Office’s report, the Committee conducted a study trip to Mozambique and Tanzania from 22 February to 4. ==References== The goal of the journey was, among other things, to look at the follow-up to the results of clean energy assistance. The embassies both in Mozambique and Tanzania had developed comprehensive and relevant programmes for the Committee, on the one hand with field visits and on the other with meetings with parliamentarians, government, regional and local authorities and the national audit in both countries on the other. In addition, the Committee met with various other organisations, including representatives of the UN and the World Bank, and non-governmental organisations focusing on human rights and anti-corruption. The Committee points out that Norwegian support for renewable power generation is primarily provided for the development of hydropower, although countries have good opportunities to exploit both solar and wind resources. Support has mainly been given to upgrading existing hydropower plants in Liberia, Tanzania, Uganda and Nepal. The last major state-owned power plant in Africa, built with Norwegian aid, is Kihansi hydropower plant in Tanzania, which was completed in 2000. Since 2005, less direct aid has been granted for the development of power generation than in previous years. More than half of the support to the priority co-operation countries has been allocated to the deployment of electricity networks. Over the period 2000–2013, electricity grids have been developed that have provided 100 000 households with electricity. However, only the richest have the economy to connect to the mains power supply. In sub-Saharan Africa, the poorest people have no more than maybe about 15 kroner a day to live for, and when it's an estimated cost of between 300 and 1500 kroner to connect to the grid, it's impossible for many households to connect to the grid. It is therefore often the case that the population in remote areas has little ability to pay and low power consumption. Thus, one enters an evil spiral, where electricity plants have difficulty covering the costs of infrastructure development to these areas, which in turn makes them poor in economy, and which in the next run leads to a lack of maintenance of power plants and electricity networks. Unfortunately, the result is frequent and prolonged power failure. Mozambique has over time received more Norwegian aid for energy than any other developing country in Africa and Asia, and electricity expansion has been one of the main pillars of Norwegian aid to the country since the late 1970s. Support has been provided for the development of line networks, rural electricity, clean energy production, regulatory framework design and private sector participation. Unfortunately, despite investment in production and networks, it appears that this leads to a small increase in productive activity contributing to economic growth. The availability of electricity to the population has led to major changes in the use of light, television, radio, mobile chargers, etc. Unfortunately, no electricity is used for cooking and, in addition, relatively few use electricity for local production. However, one sees an improvement in the quality of school and health services as a result of the use of electricity by these institutions. The Committee’s field visit to the area north of Pemba in Mozambique brought this to the attention of the Committee. through discussions with regional authorities and representatives of local business. Norway has participated in the financing of a power cable provided from mainland Tanzania to the islands of Zanzibar. The Committee visited the island of Pemba in Zanzibar and got good information on this project, and could see for itself that it had expanded extensive power grids, apparently of good quality. Norway has contributed to village electricalisation here since the 1980s. The visit to the island of Pemba gave the Committee a positive impression, and it also seemed that there was a good level of competence on the local project management. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision considers that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a responsibility to ensure that Norwegian assistance is provided to projects that are economically sustainable. This is initially shared by the Committee, but at the same time it is a major challenge to ensure that Norwegian assistance is given to projects that are economically sustainable, while at the same time including poverty-oriented measures such as village electricity. The Committee finds it unrealistic to supply large parts of the poor population in an economically sustainable way without subsidies in the longer term. Only when the population has reached a minimum level of education and economic growth can it be expected that the operation of electricity supply will be economically sustainable. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that recent technological developments and strong price reductions have made solar, wind and biomass more competitive in terms of hydropower and thus allow for a wide range of energy efforts. This shall be the responsibility of the Committee. The Committee has noted that the Council of State agrees with the National Audit Office that support for development in poor countries requires the overall and coherent use of instruments, so that assistance is more targeted. It is also important that the Norwegian funds invested in the projects of local companies can be followed in a transparent manner and be subject to the same transparency and accounting reporting as any investor would impose as a condition for providing financial assistance. The Committee would point out here that, unfortunately, the meeting with the management of Mr Danesco in Dar-es-Salaam showed little satisfaction in providing key figures for operations, indebtedness and cash flow analyses. There was also no satisfactory response to questions about depreciation and the relationship between scheduled maintenance and event-driven maintenance. On the Committee's visit to Tanzania, the Embassy acknowledged that these are complicated issues to follow up, and they had taken the consequences of this by assigning the controller function to one of their employees, which the Committee finds positive. The National Audit Office points out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs lacks good tools to trigger private investment in countries with weak framework conditions. Enterprise development is a central element of development policy and the fight against poverty, as underlined by the Finnish Foreign Affairs Committee. S No 93 for 2004-2005. Norfund is an established instrument to help trigger investment in order to establish small and medium-sized enterprises. The Committee noted that only 4 pst. of Norfund’s renewable energy investments have gone to the priority co-operation countries in the period 2000–2013, and further that this share has fallen to 2 pst. in the last part of the period, i.e. 2007–2013. At the same time, nearly two thirds of Norfund's investments in renewable energy have been made in upper middle-income countries such as Brazil and Chile. The Committee has noted that Norfund has developed relatively complex ownership structures, by which Norfund, together with Statkraft, formed SN Power in 2002 as a joint venture of Norfund and Statkraft, with a 40/60 holding, respectively. In the period 2000–2013, SN Power constituted 86 pst. of Norfund’s investments in renewable energy. The Committee assumes that in ownership with different assumptions for investment strategies there may be a risk that the threshold for investing in countries with weak economies is slightly higher in SN Power than if the decisions had been taken by Norfund himself. This has also been demonstrated in practice, as SN Power has only invested in power plants in Latin America and Asia. The Committee has also noted that in 2009 the company Agua Imara was set up by SN Power, Norfund, TrønderEnergy and BKK, with the aim of increasing investments in renewable energy in sub-Saharan countries. Agua Imara has already invested in one hydropower plant in Zambia and one in Panama, where the latter must be said to be out of the scope of the company. Norfund is planning to gradually sell out of SN Power and, in the long term, turn the portfolio of renewable energy more towards Africa and the least developed countries. However, the Committee is uncertain whether Norfund’s future strategy will contribute to greater investment in the poorest sub-Saharan countries in the foreseeable future. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, Norfund’s current framework conditions and profitability requirements make the Fund a lowly-suited instrument for triggering private investment in countries with the weakest economies and legal framework conditions. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, alternative instruments are needed to trigger private investment in these countries. The Committee agrees with the views of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office’s study suggests that the assumption of Norwegian comparative advantage as the basis for Norwegian clean energy assistance should be considered more realistically against the actual main clean energy resources of the beneficiary countries and the technologies that provide the best opportunities. The Committee points out here that, with partial exceptions for Nepal, solar and not hydropower are the dominant renewable resource in the recipient countries concerned. Solar-based electricity production has evolved over time towards becoming competitive in relation to fossil energy and hydropower. The National Audit Office’s study suggests that the U.D. in its further strategic assessments for clean energy assistance should focus more on supporting the energy resources and technologies that have the best potential for development in the co-operation country in question. In its report, the National Audit Office has made recommendations on actions to the U.D. in four points, and these are recommendations to which the Committee also subscribes. Finally, I would like to refer to the unanimous position of the Committee and recommend this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1642	Assistance to energy is a very concrete and good way to provide assistance. Going out and looking at assistance in practice is very instructive and gives a bigger picture than just reading the Riksrevision report. Had a read only this report, a thought would be that it was only miserable, but we saw that our assistance has given results and better conditions for humans. And that's a goal! The Committee is in agreement with all the comments, and I look at the statements made by the case-speakers, but I still want to make some comments. As the case spokesman said, the committee went on a trip to Mozambique and Tanzania to look at some of the projects. And that makes sense when you see that in a city, like Makaomia, life has changed for the people after they got power. They've also got light after five o'clock in the afternoon, which gives more security to people. Young people download music, charge cell phones, and watch TV. And they had a refrigerator and could use it to drink cold water. For some it was actually the first time! Small businesses got access to machines that made work more efficient, and one could work longer when one had better light. The children could read homework in the afternoon. At the health centre, laboratory tests could be refrigerated, such that one should be kept safe and the examinations improved. On the way up to this village we also received a redirect at the transformer station. He was very well maintained. The transformer station, with its transmission and distribution lines, is established with financial support from Norway and has secure electrification of the main seat in three districts and five administrative centres. The project has contributed to the stream of 3,654 families. Over the period 2000–2013, electricity grids with more than 100000 households have been built up. However, the wealthiest households benefit from the increased electricity supply. In sub-Saharan Africa, connection to the power grid costs between NOK 300 and NOK 1500, an unattainable sum for many poor people, who only have DKK 15 or less a day to live for. This means that even if the electricity grid is built into a village, large parts of the population will be without access to power in their own home. Especially people in remote and hard-to-reach strokes often have low payability and low power consumption. This makes it difficult for each electricity plant to cover the costs of expanding large infrastructure to these areas. This in turn leads to a poor economy for electricity plants, which in the next round leads to a lack of maintenance of power plants and electricity grids, and thus to a risk of both frequent and long-term power failures. It is possible we should have provided assistance for the maintenance of the projects that we have also seen. Among the findings of the Riksrevision are: ‘– Norwegian-supported measures for the deployment of electricity networks have low economic sustainability. – Clean energy assistance has reached the poorest to a small extent.’ It is difficult to ensure that poor people are streamed at the same time as the projects have to be profitable. Poor people can't afford to connect to the mains power source or to use the capabilities that the stream provides them with. It is important that the projects are capable of maintaining the facilities, but there must be a point of intersection in relation to human participation in the projects. One of the recommendations of the National Audit Office is to evaluate: ‘alternative instruments capable of triggering private investment in clean energy in countries with weakest framework conditions’. I agree with the Riksrevision here and also see that the Council of State writes that ‘there is work in progress to identify multilateral and other international financial instruments that can contribute to more private investment in clean energy in developing countries’. From Pemba in Mozambique to Pemba in Tanzania, Norway has a subsea cable that leads from Tanga on the mainland to Pemba. That cable replaces an old and impure unit. Furthermore, we are working here on the expansion of the power grid. Norway has funded village electricalisation at Zanzibar in several phases since the 1980s. The Norwegian-supported projects have given over a hundred villages access to the stream and have contributed to 80 pst. the population of Zanzibar has a power grid in the vicinity of the dwelling. Here we also visited a village that would now open a fishing market with support from Norway. And we visited Sama, who was running a carpenter's workshop. When she got power, she and her 15 could add more days to work. They bought circular cases and other new machines to drive more efficiently. We got a positive impression of the electrification on Pemba, where it also seemed that there was a good level of competence among the local project leaders. In the fight against poverty, giving people access to power is an important factor. The development of power and networks will contribute to economic growth and better living conditions for the poor. Around 1.3 billion are without access to electricity, and the vast majority of the cages in developing countries in Africa and Asia. According to the International Energy Agency, more than 6000 billion investments are needed. kr for access to electricity by 2030. In addition, the population growth in Africa is so high that it is expected that the number of those who do not have access to electricity will increase and not decrease in the next ten years. As the case-speaker also mentioned, the Committee noted that: ‘assess it as unrealistic to supply large parts of the poor population in an economically sustainable way without subsidies for a longer period of time. Only when the population has reached a minimum level of education and economic growth can it be expected that the operation of electricity supply will be economically sustainable.» The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also writes in its comments on the report that aid for clean energy ‘shall lead to increased activity and employment, which will also benefit the poor in the next round’. I think it might as well go the opposite way. When the poor are given access to energy, they can start business and contribute to the development of their society. It is important that the National Audit Office looks at how the aid money is used when it represents large amounts of taxpayers’ money. An important goal is to increase poverty, but then we have to organise our assistance so that he benefits the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1702	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work. I would also like to thank the entire committee for a useful as well as pleasant inspection related to this matter. I'm not going to spend a very long time, because both the case rapporteur and the representative, Mr. Eldegard, have said a lot I can join, even though I have to dispute what the representative, Mr. Eldegard, suggests, namely that the fact that someone has gotten better, should be a proof or an argument in itself to keep doing what you do. The Court of Auditors, as usual, points in an excellent way to weaknesses and to areas of high risk. It can also be seen from the Council’s response that the National Audit Office’s input and recommendations are taken into account. It is also likely that there is a process in place to have a comprehensive review of the way in which assistance is provided in Norway. A little more results-oriented assistance is needed. It will probably also be able to correct some of these -- let's call it -- the deviations and weaknesses that the Riksrevision has found. Norway is – as we know in this room – a country that shares with those who need it. That's something we can be proud of. At the same time, it is important that we have good control of the money, for several reasons – both because all the use of taxpayers' money requires, in my opinion, a critical look, and, perhaps so important, because, if we spend the money effectively, we can help more people who are in need. And if we were to be so negligent that we contribute to someone enriching themselves unjustly, it's probably hardly assistance we're doing, but maybe the opposite. However, I have the impression that the management of Norwegian aid funds is good. I think this report helps to make administration even better, but I want to give some consideration. Although nothing in the National Audit Office's report is wrong, it obviously points to the points that can be improved, and not necessarily to what works well. That's how the Riksrevision has worked – and it's supposed to work. But when the Riksrevision finds that the expansion of electricity has not benefited the poorest, there is a need to nuance this image slightly. It is important that when you build a power grid in poor areas, it is those households that are not among the poorest, that connect first. I guess that's natural. But we have been told that there is also a steady flow of households connecting continuously, as households save money or become aware of the benefits of electricity. We have also been informed that some local energy companies have started to offer cheap loans, so that those who want to make the investment they are connecting to the mains power grid have the opportunity to do so. This will eventually bring us closer to the goal – or perhaps reach the goal – of achieving the very poorest, while at the same time reducing the unit costs of our assistance and our investment significantly. At the same time, the benefits to those people who haven't electrified their household yet are also significant. Health centres and hospitals can test people for HIV/AIDS and malaria in a much more effective way than before. Schools may have education when the sun has gone down. They've been given street lights. Enterprises and other industries can operate more efficiently and productively. When the National Audit Office finds that there has been only a limited increase in employment in the areas that have been electrified, it may, in my opinion, have complex causes. Lack of capital, competence and other infrastructure are probably important reasons, but I suspect that when households spend some time discovering the benefits of electricity and saving capital to make investments, the same would be the case with companies. It takes time to change culture, habits and routines. When the Riksaudieren points out that the investments are largely accompanied by private investment, it may have the same reasons. According to Norfund, commercial investments have at least been growing strongly in recent years, for example: from Statkraft and Scatec Solar. It will be a sort of reflection for the Committee in the further work that, although the work of the National Audit Office is always bottom-solid, their societal mission is to point out the weaknesses. Then it becomes up to the Committee and the Stortinget to nuance the picture in their work, if necessary. In my opinion it was necessary to nuance a little in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1730	An important objective of Norwegian development work is to reduce absolute poverty and bring people out of permanent poverty. Through the clean energy initiative undertaken by the Norwegian authorities, a contribution has been made to the development of renewable power generation in addition to the expansion of electricity networks and other similar measures, such as village electricity and general capacity building in those countries in Africa and Asia. The main objective of the Norwegian authorities has been to bring people out of permanent poverty. In addition, it has been an objective that this type of project support should also trigger private investment. The main issue for the Riksrevision study has therefore been the extent to which Norwegian clean energy assistance has really contributed to taking people out of poverty. Has the projects and the 8.97. the 2007–2013 crowns contributed to achieving the Biggest objective of increasing access to sustainable energy, economic growth and better living conditions for the poor? When the Riksrevision states that Norwegian assistance has helped to increase access to clean energy and that the poorest have been reached to very little, this is a warning which calls for a closer look at the causes and what can be done in another way in the future to produce the desired results. The rapporteur has now given a good and thorough explanation of the unanimous position of the Committee, so I will not repeat it, but I will only focus on a few selected areas. When studies show that – in the areas in which electricity with Norwegian aid has been made available – the richest people who have had the opportunity to use the new power supply are the clear answer that the objective of achieving the poorest is not achieved. The costs of connecting and using electricity exceed an average family's ability to pay. The study notes that small-scale village electricification projects have led to an increase in productive activity and have therefore not contributed significantly to economic growth. While the starting point for the initiative was that clean energy should contribute to social development in the form of increased industrial activity and employment, it is difficult to see these socio-economic impacts when a reader has seen what this has done through self-esteem. There are simply too many aspects, such as: the ability to pay, the lack of training and other opportunities, which are major obstacles for parts of the population to benefit from the new possibilities of increased power supply. It is therefore important to note the Riksrevision to ensure that the challenges of the recipient organisations, not least capacity, and also competence, can be taken into account more fully in the planning of capacity-building, which can be used as a basis for priorities and decisions on clean energy assistance. In this way, it is hoped that an even better decision-making base will enable the use of the instrument to be better adapted to the circumstances of the country with which it is to cooperate. Then we got the impression, through the inspection carried out by the committee, that in the planning of this type of project, of course, the national authorities will also have a word in mind. Infrastructure is a high priority area in most of the poorest countries, and access to energy is seen as one of the most important infrastructure measures. In this way, the priorities given to countries will also have to be balanced against the recipient countries themselves. It's like a United Nations representative when, as a committee, we met him in Tanzania: it's relatively easy to provide emergency aid, but contributing in a way that creates lasting values in terms of economic development, increased employment and democratic development is a lot more demanding. But as a committee, we also saw some good examples of how access to electricity had contributed directly to, for example. improving health by enabling the use of more advanced instruments. In this way, a person could contribute to a lesser disease, better quality of life through lower infant mortality and higher life expectancy. There is reason to point out that it is a major challenge to ensure that Norwegian assistance is mainly given to projects that are economically sustainable, while at the same time including poverty-oriented measures, such as rural electricity, in the energy sector – through the Clean Energy Initiative. If a large part of the poor population is to be supplied in an economically sustainable way, it is not possible without subsidies for a longer period of time. Only when the population has reached a minimum level of education and economic growth can it be expected that the operation of electricity supplies will be economically sustainable. Clean energy assistance should lead to increased industrial activity and employment, which will also benefit the poor in the next round. Thus, the aid target is wider than increasing access to energy for the poor population. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has focused on stable and secure energy supply as a basis for economic growth, employment and social purposes, such as secure power supply to hospitals, etc. The question is then: how can a person get the best out of this? We in the Christian People's Party share the ministry's view that the technological developments and strong price falls of the last few years have made the sun, wind and biomass more competitive, making it possible to widen the scope of clean energy deployment. Therefore, we believe it will be important in the future to strengthen the commitment to increased energy access in rural areas with renewable small-scale solutions. It is positive that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will look more closely at the possibilities ahead of how to increase energy supply, for example: through the Norwegian support for web-enlargement, which can contribute to the development of nutrition. Support for development in poor countries requires a comprehensive and coherent use of instruments to maximise the targeting of assistance. It is therefore important, as the ministry itself stresses, to look at how the quality of the embassy's planning can be improved in order to make the best use of Norwegian comparative advantage. The National Audit Office’s study underlines the need for a more critical search light on the investment in large and capital-intensive hydropower projects. Instead, consideration should be given to the opportunities that can open up to trigger more private capital and focus on smaller projects where one also assesses other technologies or energy sources. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned that assistance for clean energy should continue, but that, in order to achieve the best possible impact for the poorest, greater emphasis can be placed on supporting the energy resources and technologies that have the best possible development potential in these cooperating countries that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1760	Thank you to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and, above all, to the rapporteur, who has made sure that we have a unanimous position on an important issue. The unanimous attitude is important to read as a clear marshall to think carefully through further Norwegian assistance to clean energy in poor countries. 20 years ago — perhaps even just 10 years ago — it was reasonable to think that investing in hydropower, grid expansion and large-scale solutions was the best way to contribute to the development of profitable, renewable and sustainable energy supplies in poor countries. It also made sense to think that part of the assistance should be based on developing projects that attract other investors and that become commercially profitable. This strategy has clearly provided important individual results, to the delight of many people and of many regions. But the review by the National Audit Office shows, as all the speakers here have pointed out, that the Norwegian strategy for clean energy assistance has worked too little, it has given too few projects, and it has, above all, given too little energy, in the form of deliveries to poor people, which is the main purpose of this activity, in relation to the efforts that Norway has put in it. In parallel with Norway’s efforts to develop clean energy in cooperation with poor countries, many poor countries are now choosing to develop a fossil energy base. They have the right to do that. However, while many poor countries can increase their greenhouse gas emissions much before approaching Norway’s climate responsibility and Norway’s footprint, this is not a development that the earth’s climate needs, and very much speaks for the fact that there is a trend that does not benefit the poor countries concerned in the long term. This is the challenge that we have to discuss when we discuss Norway's further assistance to clean energy in poor countries. Norway continues to have opportunities, resources and a continuing commitment to contribute skills and resources to assist poor countries in their energy development. And energy development in any country — especially countries with a poor energy base now — is one of the most important political and structural sectors and tasks for such countries, and it is one of the sectors in which one can achieve the greatest results if one does the right thing. The good review of the National Audit Office is unusually good. It's for two reasons: One is that now, after a while, a strategy for energy assistance to developing countries based on Norwegian hydropower competence and Norwegian network competence is anti-essential structural barriers. Many of the poorest countries with which we are going to cooperate simply have very limited hydropower resources. Watercourse and network strategy results in a few large, heavy, centralised and very capital-intensive energy projects, which are very time-consuming and in practice very difficult to reduce. This concerns both the major development projects and the large network projects. The strategy faces economic obstacles at both ends. It is difficult to attract partners and capital in many of the poorest countries, and – many of whom have been involved and, as the Riksrevision notes with almost perceptive clear pen – very many in the primary target population, poor people, cannot afford to connect to the network and cannot afford to buy the stream. The review of the National Audit Office is very good for another reason, too, and that is that it makes the timing of a global technology shift perfectly. The world's energy image has now changed dramatically, and it's happened over a very short period of time. Wind power costs suddenly half of the coal power. The price of solar cells and solar power goes even faster than the price of hydropower. And it's important to stop by this fact, because it's not that we're now seeing a gradual development where it's still the old energy carriers that are primarily the big, heavy and important energy carriers, and then we get a little more efficient solar power and a little more efficient wind power. It's not like that. It is such that a whole new form of energy, a whole new technology, suddenly emerges as an entirely new and adequate alternative to energy development and to energy sources that have brought with them major problems and that have hampered the development of many countries. All the poor countries that Norway has as main partners have access to much more radiated solar energy than they could ever use, measured in clean energy. Sun, wind and resources like geothermal energy are free, eternal, clean, and they have no climate impacts. Solar and, in part, wind are evenly distributed across all these countries, and they are under full national control. Solar technology and wind technology are now shelf products, and they are flexible on a scale from straw hut to very large plants. They are flexible on a scale from very little capital-intensive to very large and capital-intensive solutions, and they are flexible to connect in various types of networks to solve overall energy challenges. These new, renewable energy sources appear with very obvious benefits, compared to the strategy chosen by a very large number of poor countries in fact and unfortunately, namely the import of kerosene – Kenya consumes about its entire income from tourism to light kerosene lamps – and the costs of diesel power plants, oil, coal, etc. The likelihood that these new technologies can create more jobs, more initiatives, involve more people, intensify competition, trigger more initiatives and more innovation is very great, because flexibility is so great, and because it can spread so much faster. This is consideration that Norway needs to take much more into account when reviewing the strategy we are building on for cooperation with developing countries on energy policy. Norway is still not going to dictate the energy policy of other countries, but we have to take responsibility at home for what development we want to promote, and how. And among the things that we can obviously contribute here is the means that have been given clean energy to take off in other countries, and we now need to look more closely at the kind of instruments based on what the recipient countries can actually use, and can actually contribute themselves, than what is in the interests of Norwegian environments to learn abroad. One of the things we know has worked very well in many countries – although not too much has been tested in developing countries – is sector-specific grant schemes, which provide subsidies, feed-in tariffs, investment opportunities, micro-loans or larger loans, which can trigger activities based on established technology and country's own resources. This is a type of scheme that is something other than, for example: The Norfund model, but which has worked significantly better in many countries to trigger great movement in the energy sector. There is currently a reassessment of energy aid in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is good, and the Greens call on the strongest government and the Foreign Minister to use this opportunity for a real innovation that goes to the root of the problems and that goes to the root of the opportunities for the whole new era we are facing. And we hope that for the most part it does not now develop a defense exercise for established thinking and established structures that do not take into account that we are actually facing both new demands and completely new opportunities. Based on the National Audit Office's evaluation, we now have a very good opportunity to think new. The Green Party will come back with initiatives for a new strategy in environmental and energy aid, and we look forward to a dialogue with all parties on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1796	The National Audit Office carried out a study on clean energy assistance in the period 2000 to 2013. The report carried out a critical review. I have explained in a letter to the National Auditor how the report's recommendations are being followed up in the department. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has launched a full review of renewable energy assistance. This leads to a new strategy to ensure that the funds allocated by the Stortinget to renewable energy deliver more measurable results. The Audit and Constitutional Committee has carried out a thorough examination of the Riksrevision report, which is also evidence of the debate to date. The Committee has visited two of our main cooperating countries: Mozambique and Tanzania. There, the Committee has looked at both the challenges and the many good results achieved. The Committee has provided a very solid setting. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus between the National Audit Office's observations, the Committee's comments and the analysis behind the action taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the changes that will be made in the coming period. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on many fronts with new policies that take into account the experience we have gained and that respond to the Committee's comments on the need for concentration, better governance and stronger performance orientation. For example, we're going to go to bed. a new growth message on industrial development and conducts ownership management and dialogue with Norfund. Since 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has introduced important changes to its overall development policy. The changes respond to several of the challenges identified by the National Audit Office, including: the need for concentration, stronger involvement of the private sector, better planning and governance and stronger performance orientation. I focus my article on these four thematic areas: concentration of the private sector planning, governance and performance orientation of the strenuous balances to which it is continually facing But first, I would like to share some overall considerations about renewable energy: I am pleased that, in its position, the Committee agrees that clean energy aid will lead to industrial activity and employment, which in turn will benefit the poor through, not least, a high-growth economy in developing countries. The aim of assistance is wider than increasing access to energy for the poor population. Energy is important because a secure and stable energy supply is the basis for economic and social development. There are many analyses that look at what is bringing a country permanently out of poverty, and this is at the heart of a forward-looking development policy. We can look at two countries like Kenya and South Korea. In 1960, South Korea and Kenya had the same GNI per capita — the same high value creation per capita. Today, South Korea has a GNI per capita that is 27 times higher than in Kenya. This is a dramatic development over these years, and if you look at what has characterized South Korea's growth, it is, among other things, the creation of a high-growth private sector that has invested and that has attracted investment. These are steering sets, and they are not least about having school systems that are good, but also about having a well-functioning electricity supply. Without energy, no development. Then we're in on these dilemmas, and I've previously referred to former Minister of Development Erik Solheim. After six and a half years of travelling around the world in Norwegian assistance, he gave an interview to the Evening Post on 18 May 2012 – and I think this is very interesting: ‘Norwegian development policies have been too focused on poverty, says Solheim. He believes that the main objective of development policy still needs to be to combat poverty, but that it cannot be realised by channelling money directly to the poorest. Money must go to underpin business and build the state and well-being of the business community. The cake has to get bigger. Therefore, we have to bear in mind that some may be very rich first, before most people in low-income countries can be lifted out of poverty, says the former Minister of Development." I don't know if I would go that far, but the point of Erik Solheim is that there must also be a basis for a private sector, while at the same time we have a poverty focus. The first thematic area for a more results-oriented energy assistance is, as I said, concentration. The National Audit Office points out that widespread assistance and, in part, inadequate planning weakens the department's ability to manage aid effectively and to ensure that the objectives are achieved. Since then, the government has limited the number of aid countries and has also chosen 12 focus countries. We have gone from 116 countries to 85. There has been no simple process. Initially, I suggested to Stortinget that it should apply to everyone, but we have made some exceptions along the way. It also shows that these are processes that require broad ownership, not least in the Storting. The concentration process is followed up in the field of renewable energy assistance. With current policies, the number of cooperating countries in renewable energy will be reduced from 27 to a maximum of 15. The Ministry adds to performance measurement with concrete indicators for different areas of action and precise targets at the level of action. The second thematic area I want to focus on is the role of the private sector – I have already dealt with this in my own life, not least with the quotation I had from former Minister of Development Solheim. The proposal for the UN's energy sustainability target, to be addressed during the UN high-level week of autumn, suggests that all should have access to modern energy services by 2030. It is again linked to the overall objective of eradicating all extreme poverty in the world by 2030. The IEA has estimated that it will require investments of more than 6000 billion. kr to achieve that goal. This great promise requires a strong mobilisation of the private sector. The aid will always be only a small part of this picture. However, with more strategic use of assistance, we can help improve the investment climate and reduce the risk to the private sector. This is the central theme of a separate Communication to the EEA on Industrial Development and Development Policy, presented by the government before the summer. A critical point of the Riksrevision is that aid has led to a small increase in renewable power production in the priority co-operation countries. The Committee further questions whether Norfund’s strategy will contribute to greater investment in the poorest countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Through new SN Power and partners and collaboration with Scatec Solar, Norfund has increased its Africa focus in line with the strategy and governance signals of the owner and laid the basis for increased investment in poor countries in the future. In 2014, there were 800 million. kr, or 58 pst. of the total renewable energy investment invested in sub-Saharan Africa. The corresponding figures for 2013 were 121 million. So it's going to be 14 pst. Although Norfund is required to take risks in its investments, Norfund is required to make profitable investments. I therefore agree with the Committee that we cannot rely solely on Norfund and private capital in the most demanding countries. Here we need to be prepared to use gift assistance on a larger scale than in more developed countries. Planning, governance and results are the third thematic area. The Committee points out that the embassies should carry out better analyses as a basis for priorities and improve the quality of planning. I totally agree. The Ministry suggests that the embassies in the focus country should develop analyses that anchor Norway’s place in the broad cooperation with each country. Energy becomes one of the themes of these plans. Norway’s efforts shall be based on its own energy and climate plans, work sharing between donors and Norway’s comparative advantage. The National Audit Office points out that poor planning does not always achieve its objectives. There is a need for clearer objectives, better operationalisation, but also for understanding that some results are easier to measure than others, and that energy assistance is a long-term effort. I will acknowledge the Committee on Many Good Observations on What We Have Accomplished in Mozambique and Tanzania. It has also been included in several of the posts that have been kept. As the Committee stresses, many of the results have been achieved over time. Renewable energy is a long-term effort, and long-term performance. The fourth thematic area is linked to balances. The size is familiar with the work of the United Nations to establish the sustainability goals to which I referred in connection with the General Assembly of the Year. For energy, this is based on the Secretary-General's 2012 initiative on Sustainable Energy for All. The Sustainable Energy for All objectives are universal access to modern energy services by 2030, as I mentioned, and increasing the share of renewable energy and improving energy efficiency, which has also been addressed by several representatives. These are the overall strategic objectives, including for our efforts in the field of renewable energy in aid. The national audit points to the dilemma of reaching the poor while calling for economic sustainability. I share the Committee's view: we have to use grants, not just loans and investments, so that we can both reach more poor and at the same time secure economic sustainability – which I had to say when I referred to Kenya and South Korea. We also need to realize that in order to generate growth in the economy, a middle class needs to be developed. There must be foreign investment and there must be the necessary prerequisites for a country to go from poverty to middle-income. This is the whole picture we are now making of Norwegian development policy: we need to support the processes that make the country no longer poor, but become a middle-income country, and look at the experience of those countries that have outsmarted themselves out of poverty. When we have given a lot of assistance for decades after decades, and the country remains poor and does not implement the necessary reforms, we have to discuss in Stortinget how to design a more sustainable strategy for those countries in the future. The Committee points out that an important input in the fight against poverty is to expand electricity generation and network distribution. We will support both the development of power generation for the central network and energy access in rural areas with renewable small-scale solutions. Recent developments have made solar, wind and biomass more competitive. It is also evident in Norfund's investments, which now include solar and wind power in sub-Saharan Africa. Rapid technological developments in the field of energy are leading the way in the future. At the same time, Norway has a comparative advantage in terms of hydropower – we must not forget – and as the committee rightly points out: only 5 pst. the hydropower of Africa has been expanded. Like a country with 98 pst. of its electricity production from renewable resources, we have comparative advantage, and we show that it is possible to build industrial development and move from being one of Europe's poorest countries to becoming a good country. It is not least built on the hydropower of Norwegian industrial history. Hydropower is also needed as an alternative to fossil energy to stabilise the grid. To sum up, 1.3 billion people lack access to energy services. Poor countries need energy for economic and social development. In order to achieve global climate targets, we need to make renewable energy an attractive choice for the authorities of developing countries. Norway is an established partner in the energy sector in many developing countries. Norwegian competence and experience are requested, not least in areas such as hydropower, operation of the power grid and regional power cooperation. I have presented four thematic areas that we are following up, in line with the Committee's comments and also the comments of the National Audit Office. With this effort, I believe that Norway has a good starting point for achieving results that contribute to social and economic development and less greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy remains one of the government's important development and climate policy initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1915	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1922	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for good and constructive cooperation, which has been the aim of respecting differences in positions regarding Norway's relationship with Europe. The government’s European strategy for the period 2014-2017 indicates that we need an open and inclusive European policy. European policy is a national teamwork and it is important that there is an open debate on European development as it affects Norway. Labour from other EU/EEA countries contributes to growth and value creation in Norway, and the government wants it to be simple and attractive to apply for cross-border jobs in Europe. It is important for Norway to participate in European cooperation in the field of employment policy and social policy. The Government wants Norway to ensure good and continuous contact with policy developments and to contribute to the creation of a Europe of solidarity, inclusive and secure. The EU Programme EaSI aims to contribute to the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy by providing assistance to meet the EU’s objectives of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring decent social protection, combating social exclusion and poverty and improving working conditions. In 2015, the Government proposes that Norway also participate in the PROGRESS axis of the EaSI programme. Norwegian participation in PROGRESS is important for the provision of comprehensive professional interests in the field of labour law and the working environment, which is fully incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Norway is strongly affected by the development of European law in these areas. The PROGRESS axis aims to: support the development and dissemination of high-quality comparative analytical knowledge to ensure that policy-making is based on good evidence and is relevant to the needs, challenges and conditions of the individual countries participating in the Programme promote effective and inclusive information sharing, mutual learning, the dissemination of dialogue at EU, national and international level, providing financial support for the development and testing of innovative labour and social policy actions, providing financial support to European and national organisations to strengthen their capacity to develop, promote and implement actions, activities, relevant legislation and legislation; The programme includes areas that are central to Norwegian policy and where there is, and will be, great activity in the coming years. This applies, inter alia, to: the efforts to strengthen cooperation between the various enforcement authorities and between the authorities and other relevant actors to combat work not reported to the authorities. It is important for Norway to have good and close cooperation with the EU – now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1956	The matter concerns participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the PROGRESS axis of the EaSI programme from 2015 for the period up to and including 2020. The case rapporteur has described the facts in a straightforward way. The right, the Progress Party and the Left adorn themselves with terms such as ‘open and inclusive European policies’. And on the other hand, ‘European policy is a national teamwork and it is important that there is an open debate on European development as it affects Norway.’ I agree with the latter that we can have a basis for a debate, but – as the debate has shown earlier here today – it is very difficult to achieve. The three parties are part of the reason why it is difficult to achieve, unfortunately. The Central Party agrees that we should cooperate in the field of labour policy and social policy between countries and between countries in Europe, on a maritime basis. But working together in this area within the ideology of the European Union — which is an unillusioned experiment in the world — makes there little basis for getting good results. And it is not a believer when the majority says that Norway is ‘a contributor to the work of creating a Europe of solidarity, inclusive and safe’. What is happening in Europe is the exact opposite. The Labour Party also has a note, where a ‘shows that the government, through the support of the EURES axis, will continue to promote mobility and increase employability by developing an open labour market’. Furthermore, it states that ‘social solidarity in Europe should be a priority for Norway’. And on the other hand, ‘In addition, increased participation in the EaSI programme will provide Norway with access to several tools, actions and programmes that can help bring more people with reduced working capacity and youth into the Norwegian labour market.’ The central party disagrees with the fact that there are opportunities here for better instruments, all the time the policy that follows from the EEA Agreement, which means that we have free labour immigration from the EEA territory and not controlled labour immigration, with all the problems that many are experiencing today. The most important thing Norway can do is to show other European countries that it is possible to maintain the Norwegian model, with a high level of employment both for women and for men and not least between peoples, economic and cultural — a level playing field in the relationship between peoples if we have national, democratic tools that can correct free market forces. It is essential to have national democratic instruments capable of correcting free market forces, whether in the field of labour immigration from the EEA territory, the free movement of capital or instruments to ensure ownership and associated social obligations. This balance is a balancing of conflicts of interest that requires democratic governance on the basis of the national State. It is voluntary for Norway to join the PROGRESS axis of the EU Programme. The Party shall oppose participation and the recommendation of the Committee. At the very end: SV says in the setting that one ‘will ensure that the EEA cannot over-examine collective agreements, that labour law cannot be weakened by the EU and that EU rules cannot be sidelined with ILO conventions Norway has undertaken to comply’. SV will ensure this is a rare reading. If this is possible, it is in particular that SV is against the EEA agreement on the free movement of labour. For me, it is a question of whether the SV management can accept these wordings, because in relation to their position on the EEA Agreement, there is little logic. I would therefore advise the Senterpartiet to also vote against the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e1995	The Socialist Left wants to replace today’s EEA Agreement with a less extensive trade and cooperation agreement. SV will ensure that the EEA Agreement cannot overestimate collective agreements, that labour law cannot be weakened by the EU and that EU rules cannot set aside the ILO conventions that Norway has committed itself to comply with. It's solid. The issue we are now discussing is aimed at promoting a high level of employment, ensuring decent social protection, combating social exclusion and poverty and improving working conditions. That's what SV supports. We believe that Norway should be part of the third axis, too, which is about microfinance and social innovation. If Norway joined it, it would be easier to engage in social entrepreneurship in Norway, in line with other European countries. That is why I would like to raise the SV's proposal to participate in the third axis of the EaSI programme. The proposal to join the third axis is important for several Norwegian social entrepreneurship and microfinance actors to have access to guarantee schemes and loans for social entrepreneurship and inclusion in the labour market. According to Microfinance Norway, the majority of those who start their own business with resources from Progress Microfinance in the EU are unemployed. In Norway, similar opportunities exist through Nav and for those who are unable to obtain bank loans. Microfinance has existed in Norway since 1992 and has helped many to gain new livelihoods and get started, including: migrant women and women in the districts. Microfinance Norway indicates that some 65 million have been traded in Hordaland. kr in 2013, and also indicates that without participation in the third axis, Norway refuses to participate in more than the cost of participating in the programme. We in the SV believe it is important that Norway also participates in the financial arrangements for social entrepreneurship and microfinance. We believe it is important that people also have the opportunity to participate in programmes that contribute to financial inclusion and to solve important societal tasks. Therefore, SV hopes to support our proposal, and we also show that the board of the Center for Social Entrepreneurship supports us in it. They represent 15 user-driven social entrepreneurship organisations. I also hope the parties at Stortinget will listen to those voices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2006	The President sees it as Kirsti Bergstø's representative has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2009	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2014	Let me first just underline what the rapporteur said in an excellent way. From 2015 Norway opts to participate in the EaSI programme PROGRESS axis. As you know, we participated in the EURES axis from 2014 onwards, which has continued this year. I think it is important that we acquire skills and knowledge, are involved and get the necessary insights into the areas of labour law and the working environment within the EU. We see that one of the major debates taking place in Norway, among others. is about work-life crime. If we are to be able to follow developments, it will also be necessary to be able to follow developments in European countries, to see which trends are emerging, to participate in such work in a good way and to gain the necessary insight. It will also be a good way to address the issues of black work. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad consensus both in the Committee and in the Stortinget that this makes sense to participate – that it is good to be part of this. I want to stress that we also see that a lot is changing. Knowledge and competence also apply to the current debate in Europe on social security. The fact that we can join, sit and join in – have our professional environments inside and follow up on what is going on – will also be a strength for the Norwegian interest and the Norwegian debate. So there are many good reasons why you should participate in this work. Therefore, the government has been clear as to why you want to participate in this. That is why I am also pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2041	I refer to the Stortinget treatment of Prop. 88 S for 2013–2014, and I refer to the Storting decision that the pioneers should be awarded a collective and individual compensation for their groundbreaking work in the North Sea. The person who was assigned to deal with the matter of compensation for the divers and their survivors has completed his work. The status is that eight divers are granted new compensation and four divers are granted extended compensation. The total number of divers is about 28 million. kr in compensation. In this context, a Joint Labour and Social Committee promotes changes to the current budget by capping. 646 Item 70 Grants to the pioneer divers were granted 28 Mio. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2048	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2062	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2078	Our healthcare has an important role in social protection related to the treatment of a few very few dangerous patients. Let it be said: I want the greatest possible freedom and minimum coercion, but unfortunately there is a risk of different conditions related to the safety of the very most dangerous patients in forced mental health protection, which can lead to insecurity and danger of life, both for staff, other patients, the patient himself and the environment. Such situations may arise tomorrow, or they may arise in the longer term. On 1 July 2012, new changes to the Law on Mental Health came into force, following previous debate and treatment in Stortinget. Let me first say that I agree with the great treatment that was, the challenges that were raised at the time, and the consensus reached between Stortinget and the majority of the Stortinge. A new national unit of particularly high security allows for the introduction in exceptional cases of an additional level of safety beyond the current regional security departments, such as Sandviken, Dikemark and Brøset, and where the new national unit has its own rules to address the need for particularly high security. The main difference between a regional security department and the new national unit will be that the security measures that can be used by a regional security department will be largely mandatory by such a department. The criteria for transferring to such a department are very strict. A transfer may only be adopted in cases where there is a special risk of escape, hostage-taking, serious and violent behaviour or attack against the patient himself, co-patients or personnel. In the big debate about the new lawhouse on a new unit, it was also clarified that this would be about so few patients and places that it would be appropriate to add the department to one place, through some building adjustments or a new building. It is no secret that the July 22 issue updated parts of these changes, and in particular the relationship referred to in the law on a new unit for a particularly high level of safety. Today we have no legal case pending, but the issue is still important to discuss. There are quite clear feedback from those who work in this sector, and with these patients, that there has been a development in the field. Several patients are poorer, more complex and more demanding to work with than before. It is therefore in this context, as I understand it, also a strong perception among regional security departments that they are now seeking a new unit for a particularly high level of safety and that there should be a division of labour in this field between the different regional departments. There will still not be much talk about patients. We're still talking about a small handful. I believe this will be a wise step to take, so that we ensure the safety and security of the employees, patients and society for the rest. So the Law Hall is there. The undersigned considers that it is now time to discuss the necessity of such a unit, what such a unit should contain and where it should be located. As regards the location of the new unit, the issue of changes in the mental health law was discussed in the main proceedings and written by more than one. then Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen and then Head of the Health and Care Committee Bent Höie, that such a new national unit for particularly high security should be part of the regional security departments but that it can be physically located elsewhere. Even the undersigned finds several reasons why such a unit should be considered localised to the Regional Security Department of Brøset, St. Olavs Hospital. The bridge has the necessary experience with complicated patients, they are of the right size, patient-by-patient, and have good and professional competence in their field. Furthermore, they already have a nationwide task through the Central Professional Unit for Forced Care, and they are well ahead, both nationally and internationally, in their field. They introduced START, as a first-time manager, as a monitoring tool for structured clinical evaluation of risks and treatment. The Broset model is also another well-known term in the field. Today, Brøst receives several observers for observation, they have their own research unit, among others. with the only professorship in legal psychology and psychiatry in the country. They also have the daily operation of the network SIFER. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that the Brøst has a national pilot project, awarded by former Minister of Justice Grete Faremo, where an optimal interaction in the field of legal psychiatry is to be investigated. The undersigned believes it is time to discuss the need for a new national unit of special security based on the feedback from the sector. There has been a development in this field too, where several patients become worse, more complex and more demanding to work with. We must therefore dare to question whether we today have the optimal structure and not least the buildings to solve this societal task. So the question to the Council of State is: what organisation and what content does the Council of State see as having the new unit of particularly high security? And does the Council see the possibility that this new unit can be added to the Regional Security Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2110	The three Regional Security Departments in Bergen, Trondheim and Oslo provide services to patients with severe mental health problems, with persistent or severe acts of violence that require resources beyond what the General Psychiatric and Local Security Departments can offer. They also accept patients where, for security and investigation reasons, such a framework as those departments can provide, and patients for judicial daily observation under the Criminal Procedures Act, § 167. All departments provide highly specialised health services and all are linked to centres of expertise in legal, security and prison psychiatry. I Prop. 108 L for 2011–2012 on Changes to the Mental Health Act — Regional Safety Departments and Unit with a particularly high level of safety, etc. – it was discussed and facilitated the establishment of a national unit with a particularly high level of safety. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘In the case of the establishment of an entity with a particularly high level of safety, such a department shall decide on the establishment of such an entity under a regional security department. The Ministry assumes that patients will rarely be required to be transferred to a unit for a particularly high level of safety and that it cannot be excluded that such a unit will not be required for periods of time.’ It goes on to say: «Accommodation costs and any structural adjustments for units with a particularly high level of safety will depend, inter alia, on the safety needs and location of such a unit. No decision has yet been taken on the establishment of such a unit and the Ministry will return to any need for funds for operation and investment in the annual draft budget.» There is currently no political decision on the establishment of such a department, and at present none of the regional health establishments have applied for the establishment of such a unit. The field has previously reported that there may be a need for perhaps four to five nationally based sites. This is an uncertain estimate. Experience has shown that solutions have been found within current regional safety departments. The organisation and content of a new future unit must be further assessed by the health regions in a planning process, leading, where appropriate, to an application for the establishment of a national treatment service, where the treatment of this patient group is centralised into one location in the country. Such an application is presumed to follow established procedures for the establishment of national processing services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2129	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and relatively open response. I do not see it as a negative response either. It is a well-known case that the patients currently admitted to the regional security departments are not the patients who call the highest. In many ways, they don't have a reason for that either. At the same time, we know that many of these patients and the employees who treat them, both work and live under unworthy conditions. It's about a lot of old building mass, which is far from keeping the standard we see in many other parts of the healthcare system and the specialist health service. There is also talk not only of those in regional security departments but also of the psychiatry as a whole. As the Council of State may have heard before, everything is often linked to everything, and Trondheim is now trying to solve several of these challenges in a difficult waters, including: with a new psychiatry building in the east of the country, where there is opening of tenders during these days, start of construction for the autumn and completion in 2017. In this connection, it has been a wish from both the Broset environment itself, the board and the administration at St. Olaf's hospital and Health Mid-Norway – and not least the municipality – that the activity currently being carried out on the Broset in outdated and quite worn-out buildings can be moved and become a neighbour with the rest of the psychiatry on East Marka. For the professional community, this will provide a significant boost through both the professional, the economic and not least the organisational synergies, but perhaps the most important thing: it will provide better treatment to those who are currently patients in the regional safety department. In this context, it should not underestimate the potential impact of an appropriate building mass, including the use of coercion and the need for safety. It's all clear that the bridge can move, but as the council knows, there's complicated property on the bridge, where the state is also a complicating factor. I had in the first article in this case tried to make the professional and social need for us to now look at the establishment of a new national unit for particularly high security, and that it could be part of the Broset. But I would like to challenge the Minister further on how he views this patient group as a whole, if in that case he makes a positive contribution to the process of giving this group the building offer they actually deserve, including. by helping to move the Broset environment to the East, and if the Council of State also sees that a new national unit for particularly high security can play a role in this game — to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2140	There were several questions in the representative’s articles now. With regard to the specific situation related to the challenge of building mass for mental health services at St. Olaf's hospital in Health Mid-Norway, there is one thing that has gone on for a long time. Health Mid-Norway is now working to clarify its investment plans, which the board is about to deal with. Then it is right – as the representative was in it – that there are some complex issues related to emptying issues, where State Building is also one of the actors. But it's important that it's Health Mid-Norway that gets to run this process. If they need the state to contribute here – solve flocks or solve questions – I am, of course, open to it at all times. When it comes to establishing the national offer here, I explained in my previous post what procedure may need to be initiated from the health region in order to apply for such a national service. In the case of the offer to groups such as these, the Health Directorate assumes that there is a small group of seriously ill people who must be behind locked doors for a longer period of time. Some of these are for different reasons under Title G of the Ila, where measures have been put in place to improve settlement conditions. Others are in security psychiatry. It is a very challenging societal task to facilitate a worthwhile life for this particular group. The Health Directorate has asked the Network of Centres of Competence in Justice, Security and Prison Psychiatry to develop a status showing the organisation, capacity, capacity needs and demand for services in this area. The report is planned for 2015/2016. The report will also provide a detailed overview of local departments. The reason why the number of units and spaces is uncertain is that the names around the country are not uniform and unambiguous. Previous reports, from 2009, have shown that a significant proportion of inmates would benefit from being transferred to a lower level of care, but the history of patients often makes it difficult to transfer them to other hospital wards, to the DPS or to the municipalities. I feel confident that the report that comes at the end of the year will answer some of the questions that the representative raised in his last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2157	Thank you to Mr Tung, who is addressing a very important issue. As the representative also said, it's a small group, and it's easy to forget those who aren't so many. There's a lot of things going on in the field right now. Now we have just received the proposition, which is a follow-up to the Assurance Committee's investigation in the field of justice, so we're going to deal with it soon. I see that there are challenges, and that there are different moments associated with where a physical is going to place the offer, but I think that an important element is, as the representative also took up, what is about content. It is true that security measures against prisoners are also used in prisons, even if they are not physically located in security departments. We're in that group of prisoners who have major mental challenges, and who don't necessarily need to have a long-term picture of the disease. I could imagine getting some feedback. I think it is very good that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are here – it should only be lacking when there are things that just go on them. But at least it's very good that they're here, so both of them can get some feedback on what they think from their different points of view about the cooperation that needs to be done to ensure that the interaction between health services and prison services is good, regardless of whether it's in their own institution, in health care or in prison. I would appreciate very much if you could come up with their perspectives from their point of view. What have you given of steering signals, what do you think are important steering signals to give in the future in relation to this small group of people, and also perhaps in the slightly larger perspective in view of the prisoners, whom we know have some major and serious challenges? Sometimes there's a throwing ball situation between the different floors, and sometimes there's very good cooperation. Oslo prison, for example. has a very good cooperation with the psychiatry of some prisoners. But could you say a little bit about what you're thinking? What and what measures do you think are working well, and what measures can meet the challenges we face in this area, both with regard to the most serious sick, and with regard to those who need special measures in prison, which have major challenges there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2166	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and open response. This is a very, very important topic in the border between health and justice, which I think we need to get back to. The signals about a new national unit and the location itself have also been received. Then, as the representative Henriksen, I will address the important question of the content of such a department. I think that's also the most important question. So just a little comment at the end, and it's really back to the matter that was dealt with in Stortinget when the law home itself was discussed. In that case, amendments to the security provisions of the regional security departments were also adopted by allowing for greater investigations than in the past. In the context of that examination of the case, it was said – also in a unanimous comitology, as far as I remember – that the ministry should monitor the impact of the new provisions and that the Storting should be properly informed. I would like us to have received such a briefing on a later occasion, on how the new security regulations have also been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2175	Now it's probably a coincidence that the Minister of Justice is here too, since he has the next case, but it's not a coincidence that the Minister of Justice and I meet. We are now doing this at regular intervals, just to follow up some of these issues that lie between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice and Defence in this area. Because there is no doubt that there are many things here – also many things where there has not been a lack of investigation, but where there has been a lack of willingness to draw conclusions and follow up. We are now working together on the follow-up to the Cramer report. We have strengthened the offer of Ila materially, manned, because there were clear indications that some of those who were there were not getting a good enough offer. This has given positive results. We have now also followed up the report of the Mæland Committee. Last Friday, the report on specific criminal-law responses to what has gone under the heading of ‘specially plagued criminals’ was promoted by the Stortinget. Then we also continue to work on what is the follow-up to the spill-over of the case that the interpellant drew up, namely the possibility of security measures also in departments under the regional security departments. Then I must almost ask to come back to the reference that Storting wanted an orientation and a follow-up to the measures that were adopted there. Then I very much agree with both the interpellant and other representatives who have spoken, who note that these are people who often get little attention in the daily political discussion, and then there are individual issues that make it very big headlines and a lot of short engagement, but often not completed. So both the Minister of Justice and I have, together, a clear commitment to solving in some of these areas by finding good solutions in common. Because here we have probably seen that there have been different approaches between justice and health, which often have not necessarily contributed to solutions, but we are now systematically trying to solve some of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2191	That is when the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2207	It's possible that I'm the only one who's concerned about this on the Oslo bench, at least if we're going to judge by the ‘wonderful’ presence in the hall now. There was a little signal out in the building, hoping maybe some more Oslo people would care. Oslo is a safe city – one of the safest capitals we have. And it's had a very positive development in crime statistics. I found – when I was working on this interpellation – notices from 2006, when there were four times as many reported crimes per capita in Oslo as in New York. But after that, a big change was started, which led the Oslo Police to have very good statistics on the development of crime. They have worked systematically with e.g. housing burglaries, which have caused us to have had a 60-70 p.m. drop over a period of time, because they have worked strategically and systematically against the groups that have committed this. During a period of time, we who live in Oslo perceived that pocket theft was almost a bit of sheltered nourishment, but when the Oslo police decided that this was something to be combated, and left a special responsibility on one of the city’s politicians to follow it up, so that that kind of crime, through systematic and good old-fashioned police work, also disappeared. This isn't the type of crime that's the most dangerous, but it's the kind of crime that makes people not feel safe in their own city, and that makes people feel that you don't have control of their own city. The police have also worked well with the rendition projects, which have been very focused on some of the youth environments that have recruited these people. The doom has gone down dramatically compared to what we can remember just a few years ago. When we lifted the taxi monopoly, together with the Municipality of Oslo, we were able to get rid of what happened for many years, namely, several killings in a taxi queue. Now I don't remember the last time anything like that happened in the city of Oslo. The Oslo Police have developed a very good cooperation with the Oslo Municipality on prevention, with many good projects that are very targeted to get young people on the right track. In sum, we can say that we have to go back to the very early Middle Ages in Oslo's history to find a time when we had as little crime as we have right now. We also have to say that we may never have had a generation of Oslo youths who have been so few criminals as they are now. We also have to go very far back to find – if at all it is possible to find – a generation of young people who do neither do criminal acts nor run as little as they do now. I think this, as a citizen of Oslo, is really great, and it's clear that there's a lot of good things going on in the Oslo Police Department. Then I am concerned when, on April 20, 2015, there is a notice in the Evening Post that trustees in the Oslo Police are starting to be concerned about the use of resources related to all the threats associated with national and international issues. The confidence-seekers noted that they are concerned that the daily crime and the fight against it, in which we have now come so far, will lose weight in the fight against the major terrorist threats, object protection and other tasks that the police are facing – when we do not have to combat everyday crime, and when the order patrols have to stand guard. They were also concerned about overtime use. The trustees of the Oslo police characterised the situation as ‘half kneeling’. In most cases, the Oslo police use 180 of their annual work as a security guard. That's equal to 8 million. kr per month. Having a double car patrol, like us, for example. has been outside the Storting for periods, constitutes 18 years’ work – it is 18 years’ work for policemen to have such a car patrol standing. It's not just the Storting that's increased watchkeeping. The Jewish communities have also been given increased vigilance — and it is absolutely right that they get it — which also takes off the police resources we see around the city. We've seen the Pegida demonstrations, which have demanded enormous resources from the Oslo Police. The Oslo police have made sure that everyone has the opportunity to express their opinions in Oslo streets – even when you are met by tough counter-monsters. That the Pegida demonstration was going on, I think it was good, but I also think it was good that SOS Racism and the other groups were allowed to demonstrate against it. All the favors of the police, who are able to do this in a way that we think is worthy of our democracy. But here we see that time and again the police's urban resources are being spent on national tasks. It's in Oslo people demonstrating. This is where it's natural to make political markings. The Oslo police know that a Nobel Prize is being awarded in December every year, which makes extra demands, and you can always do a good job if it's not working with the resources. But when the whole national threat level increases and much of it is put on the Oslo Police, we citizens of Oslo are worried, because it is a common fund for the citizens of Oslo that is used to solve national tasks. We can promise that we will master the national threats, but we must also remember to be able to maintain the positive developments we have had with the crime in Oslo. I also think it is important in the long run when it comes to preparedness for terrorism. Many of the youth projects and prevention projects we have are important in terms of the threats we see. I noticed that the Council had read my interpellation before he delivered the revised national budget. I think it's very good that you have an increase for the Oslo police, because that probably means that the Council of State agrees with me that extra burdens have occurred. But I want an assurance that we will not weaken the good crime prevention work done by the Oslo Police, and that cooperation we have with the Municipality of Oslo, because I think it is important for the security of people and for the fight against terrorism. It is important that we are able to maintain the trend, the seas if national tasks arise, and the seas if national threat assessments come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2239	Let me first thank the interpellant for a good interpellation, and – I had almost said – an even better post in the hall. I think I can say that I agree with the representative Skei Grande in everything she said. I am very excited that Oslo representatives too are so clear in their favour of the job that the Oslo police district has done over many years, and that has given very, very good results for the citizens of Oslo, with reduced crime. Now it also seems that the percentage of information actually goes up. It's also very positive. Then I might wish there were more people present in the room and in the press room to hear the positive review that the representative Skei Grande is giving of the Oslo police, because that is well deserved. There is also a lot of positive work going on all over Norway. But I also understand the concern expressed by the representative Skei Grande in this interview. Oslo Police District is a very special police district in many areas. The interpellant has been involved in part of it, but it's our largest police district. They are robust and quite well rusted to handle special situations. They also have national response capacities. In addition, a capital police force is characterized by the fact that there are many important objects that at special times require more attention. Let me also say that the police are a framework-funded business, and we have clear expectations that the police will solve their tasks within the financial framework decided by the Stortinget. This means, in principle, that specific challenges in one area need to be addressed through redisposals and changes in others. Since the change of government, the police have also had a strong budgetary priority. In the last two fiscal years, the police and the prosecution authorities have combined a budget increase of about 1.56 billion. kr corrected for wage and price increases and included VAT. It shall include, inter alia: provide room for 700 new police posts, 100 million. SEK for changes and civil servants releasing police force – a full-year effect of 140 million. SEK – 50 new prosecutors, about 16 new state attorneys and several case-responsors at the State Attorney's Office and about 30 new posts in the Oslo Police District directly for increased police operation in the foreign field. In this respect, the supply of resources also has a positive impact on the Oslo police district and improves the district’s ability to handle its tasks in general. At the same time, the police in Oslo, as mentioned, have some specific tasks as a result of their being responsible for the capital. This is to some extent taken into account in the allocation of funds to the police districts, but when a situation arises that results in a temporary increase in the level of preparedness, resulting in an increase in the vigilance of all central features, it could lead to an excessive burden within the allocated framework. Although Oslo police districts are able to deal with the situation, it could go beyond other priority areas, just as the representative Skei Grande outlines that she fears, and as the police have expressed it in the media. Oslo police districts deliver good results in many areas, and this tends to further improve. It will be difficult to accept that part of this work needs to be returned because police districts need to ensure increased watchkeeping. Since November 2014, the number of fixed appointments and appointments at events has increased. There is no doubt that the measures taken are necessary, but they also affect the ability of Oslo police districts to deliver in other areas. We have some experience about this also from the threat situation last summer, when the extra costs for the police were estimated at about 60 million. kr. The share of the costs of Oslo police district was about 21 million. kr, although the intensified increased preparedness lasted only a few days. The government proposed, as we know, to compensate the police for these additional expenses, something the Storting also agreed to. According to the Police Directorate, Oslo handled police districts in 2014 approx. 650 demonstrations, 275 larger and smaller events, 80 receptions and 44 visits. Oslo, with all its institutions, is in a very special position in relation to the rest of the country. The heightened threat since last November has led to increased preparedness and watchkeeping needs in 2015, and therefore the government, as the representative Skei Grande rightly pointed out, has proposed in the revised national budget an increase to the Oslo police district of about 38 million. kr. There is money intended to ensure that the increased preparedness should be minimised in relation to other important police tasks. The revised national budget is, as you know, in the Grand Duchy for treatment during these days. Increased preparedness is not only a matter of money, but also of staffing. Although the police are doing their utmost to carry out other tasks in a good way, it cannot be excluded that a sustained increase in the level of preparedness may temporarily be at the expense of some of the police’s other tasks. Oslo Police District has been allocated funds for 80 new police posts intended for graduate students from the Police College, and seven new prosecutors. This will also help to make the police district even more robust in managing increased preparedness. It is important for the government to continue building up the police so that one can reach the target of two police officers and women per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. In addition, changes related to the follow-up to the near-police reform, where government parties together with the Left have found very good solutions for the future, will help to strengthen Oslo police capabilities for even better delivery in the future. So, of course, I'm going to follow this situation in the future as well. I don't think I can satisfy the representative Skei Grande's desire to give any assurances that all tasks will be solved by the Oslo Police, will be solved in the same good or better way as it has been done so far, but this is something we're going to follow closely, and as I know the Police Directorate is also following closely up. I believe that by proposing this additional allocation of just over 38 million. kr to the Oslo police also follows up the concern expressed by the representative Skei Grande both in the posts and in the interpellation, and I believe that this also gives Oslo police good framework conditions to ensure the maintenance of the essential part of their normal business in such a way that the increased watchkeeping does not go too far beyond other priority tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2260	It seems that this is just a debate between me and the Council of State. I think this is an important topic, and it concerns a lot of people. When Left had the Minister of Justice, there was a large increase in the number of embassies that required watchkeeping. It was then possible to create a separate budget line for the national tasks. The challenge for the Oslo police is to be able to plan their resources when major national events occur. Usually we have a system where we later try to clean up when we notice that things have gone wrong. My follow-up question to the Council of State, which I see as a good response to the challenges we are facing today, is: could a budgetary organisation of this have distinguished something more between what is the city's task and what are the national tasks? I understand that it is not that easy for a capital police, because the tasks of the city are often also the tasks of the capital. But as the threat level increased, could budget resources also be required to follow that kind of increase, so that the city police could plan much clearer than today? I think what has been included in the revised national budget is good. The police office was panicked when 180 posts were used in most cases. There was no need for the kind of look-up and the kind of redeployment of resources that needs to be done quickly due to national events. The Nobel Prize distribution, for example, we know when it is, so the police can plan for it. However, when there are major changes in the level of threats, it should also be budgeted for the changes it must lead to in the use of resources at a large police chamber such as Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2271	When major national events occur, or when major changes occur, there will also have consequences in some contexts for more police districts than the Oslo police district, even though Oslo will be quite specific in view of the institutions they are to provide. It's probably demanding, I think, to have a system that's going to be able to adjust the budget chapter up and down from what kind of events occur at all times. I have to admit that the idea of having an estimate budget for the police is definitely an interesting idea, but I think that for example. the Minister of Finance and others would have had some counter-representation against doing so. It is also about the need to ensure predictability regardless of the events that occur. It might be demanding to separate what is the police's ordinary tasks in Oslo and what is related to national tasks. But when the Oslo Police are allocated resources, it's taken into account what kind of task portfolio Oslo police districts actually have. When there have been special incidents, both when the terrorist threat hit last year, and in the situation we are now facing, where the Oslo Police have a lot of extra work and a lot of extra security expenses, the Stortinget has been brought forward and proposed additional appropriations to compensate, in order to ensure that this is not too much to affect the police's other tasks. Then there is one more element, which is not entirely within the framework of what the inter-pellant is asking for, but the Oslo Police are also responsible for the national response capacities. There will now be a review after the Storting has landed on the way in which national response capacities are to be organised and financed. It will certainly be a contribution to looking at this in a slightly larger whole, but I do not think I can promise the representative that we will come back with a proposal for a liquid budget allocation. I think it would be demanding to put into practice, even if the intention behind it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2280	The interpellant looked a little dark on the debate situation and suggested that it seemed to be a debate solely between Minister and interpellant. The theme is too important for that. The inter-pellant shall have a honeymoon to bring up a very important theme. These days you often hear about what the police fail to do, but the fact is that the Oslo police are largely successful in what the Oslo police are working with. It was mentioned by the poaching groups, and we have the burglary group at the Majorstua police station, which can show very good results. From crime area to crime area, we now see that the Oslo Police through their Task Force organizations are able to bring crime to life, crime that has been a major problem in the capital. Oslo Police are also at the forefront of the fight against organised crime. The competence acquired by the Oslo Police Department in this area is important for the rest of Norway to be able to attract. In this way, the police reform, which is now in the final phase, will be an important contribution to breaking down these many borders between police districts in Norway, so that this special competence can be used in the Oslo police district across the police districts. The Oslo police district is very special in the sense that it is responsible for so many national security and security tasks. It is clear that there are very large human resources and are cost-effective in itself. The good work that the Oslo Police have now done in the areas that I mentioned, it is very important not to be listed in the situation we are in now, where they have to plough a lot of their resources into guarding and securing. It is precisely because the government of the revised national budget has strengthened the Oslo police budget and compensated them. Interpellant's desire to get a split of the Oslo budget, so that a better person can see what the money is actually spent on, I think it's unrealistic. After all, it has been politically opposed and now the Oslo police district budget has been introduced into the other justice budget. It is okay that the Oslo police district is special, but a special budgetary treatment over time will not be right. Very well done in Oslo police district, but Oslo police district also has improvement potential. The State Attorney's inspection reports three years in a row at the Greenland Police Station show significant potential for improvement. I know that Oslo police district is now working on, but when we know that 15 pst. in fact, in the area around Greenland Police Station, it is of particular importance that the Oslo Police District also manages to bring this crime to life, or as far as it is possible to combat ordinary profit crime. There has been a problem in the Oslo police district, but I know that Oslo police district is also working on it. Then we get to hope that Oslo police districts, as a consequence of the police reform, get more of their resources than they do today, through effective cooperation with surrounding police districts and possibly certain organisational adjustments within their own police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2295	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. There are quite a few of us who have a great heart for Oslo's citizens, and not least for the police in Oslo, who are doing a good job throughout. In this way, I find it interesting that the issue is raised, and that the Council of State has a consciousness of and focuses on it. Because even if a lot of good work is done, things can probably still be done better. At least after many years as a member of the Justice Committee, I have experienced that the Oslo Police have had at least as great challenges as the rest of the country. Oslo is the main seat of the government, the Stortinget and the royal house, but is also the continuous main seat for much of the crime committed in this country. If you ask people who work in the police in Eastfold or in Agder, and who stop a lot of crime that's really on their way here, I think they might sometimes wish that the Oslo police did even more than they can do today. It is perceived as a paradox — and the Council of State was so much involved in it in the future — that as long as Oslo has part of national responsibility, there are funds that go out of the same pot as for ordinary operations. I don't think the Oslo police largely decide how many state visits we should have, or what are of different measures around the embassies because of possible threat images, but they have to deal with the challenges when they get them. They do so consistently in a good way that takes care of the citizens of Oslo. At the same time, I have some understanding that those who live here sometimes feel that they are short when the Oslo Police need to give priority to national and local tasks. That it can be seen as unreasonable, I fully understand. That's why I appreciate what the Council of State said in its previous statement, that you have to look at this dimension as you go through the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2304	I am sincerely pleased that at least we have representatives of the North and Akershus who want to take part in the debate on the security of the citizens of Oslo. I totally agree that not everything in Oslo police is perfect. That's not what I was trying to say. What I tried to say was that very much in the Oslo Police Department is on the right track. There is a good development on many of the crime statistics, and it is important for the safety of the whole of Norway. I live in Old Town. I live so that I see the police house. I live in the area where the vast majority of the cranes in Norway are also being committed. I don't see it as unsafe, but for me it's important to have a police officer who takes it seriously. For me, it's important to have a close-up that can turn young people on the wrong track. For me, it is important to have a police officer who works with prevention, who works with young people at a prevention level, who works with the municipality in a good way. I think it's very good to prevent crime and terrorism all over Norway. The basic job done, especially among young people, is crucial to our future security. Therefore, we cannot get into a situation where we turn up the safety level and move researchers from preventive child and youth work to the kind of security we see, for example. Here at the Stortinget. For me, as a big-time representative of Oslo, it's more important to have policemen on the streets of Greenland talking to young people than to have the two here. I believe that this is more preventive for my security, both as a citizen, as a politician and as an active participant in democracy. We can't get into a situation where one leads to that we don't get our prevention job done. My honor here today is that the Oslo Police must do this basic work, especially among young people, especially with everyday crime, especially with organized crime spreading across the country if Oslo does not do its job. And at a time when we've had revelations of bad cultures at many other police chambers, I think we're going to point out to those who have an important and good development trend, in order to reverse just this. My challenge to the future Council of State is: I would have preferred there to be one budget for the urban tasks and one budget for the situations that arise, where politicians had been obliged to let it go with money when, for example, they did. a threat situation occurs. I must at least have a promise from the Minister of Justice that he will follow this closely, because this concerns the prevention that ensures that we have a safe country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2325	Let me then thank you for an important but short debate. I also think it is good that more people who have taken part in the debate do not come from Oslo, because one can basically say that Oslo is an engine both in terms of crime and in terms of fighting crime. If you succeed in Oslo, it will be important for the rest of the country, both in terms of the export of crime and because of what they handle in Oslo, too, that it is important for the result nationally. Then I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande's assessment of what you can expect from a close-up police force, and how important it is that we have a close and good police force. I am pleased with the cooperation that the Left and the government parties have on the police reform, which is going to help deliver right on the shelf where the representative Skei Grande addressed these issues. I also agree that it is absolutely essential that we succeed in the prevention work. Long-term prevention, in particular related to youth settings, is essential for us to continue the development we are now seeing, where crime is steadily declining, both in Oslo and elsewhere. The importance of being clear about prevention is important, but it is also important that one does not get into a situation where there is a situation that goes beyond preparedness on the other side. I'm probably not quite in agreement with the representative of Skei Grande that a priority must be given between working preventively and ensuring the national assembly with the police present. Both are important. Both of these problems have to be solved. That is why it is important that both the government and the Grand Duchy take seriously the situation we are now in, and that is what the government has done by proposing additional appropriations to the Oslo Police District in the revised national budget. Then we will, and it will certainly, the Storting too, follow closely the evolution over time, how much resources, extra resources, that will be spent on these national vigilance tasks in view of what kind of tasks it might be possible to do at the expense of. But it is the police chief in Oslo who has to dispose of the resources available to the chief of police. I trust that the Oslo police will be able to prioritise it in a good way, but that is clearly something that we will also be following. I can assure you – although I said instead that I do not like to make insurance – that both the police chief in Oslo, the police director and the Minister of Justice and Security have good dialogue on how this picture will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2336	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2342	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2350	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol at its meeting on 26 May. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2358	During the debate, Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare for the recognition of Palestine as its own country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Stortinget what the role of Norway should be in the Middle East peace process.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2414	During the debate, Kirsti Bergstø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway participates in the third axis of the EaSI programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2441	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2446	I have not registered my vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2451	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2539	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-28.ana.ud225e2551	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
