ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e61	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Eirin Sund from 10 December onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Eirik Sivertsen from 11 to 12 December to participate in the International Arctic Conference in order to extend the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the 11th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol – COP21 – in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e102	Øystein Langholm Hansen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e107	On behalf of the representatives of Marianne Aasen, Torgeir Micaelsen, Ruth Grung, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Line Kysnes Vennesland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to lift Norwegian biobanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e112	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e118	The representative of Mr Svein Harberg has asked for the floor to be put to the vote in case No. 1-3 in the Stortingen meeting yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e121	There is a need for a clarifying comment about one of the voting points during the voting here in the Chamber yesterday. It turns out that there has been a technical error in the attitude of the family and cultural committee in an incubation. B IX has been included as a majority proposal along with another proposal, but the right thing is that that proposal came from a unanimous committee. This caused confusion during the voting. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, which voted against, should also have voted in favour of the proposal. So it was supposed to be a unanimous big deal that voted in favour of IX. And with that clarification, now also all the trophies in all the parties should be able to take Christmas holidays with straight back.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e126	It's a pleasure for the president. We then find that Mr Harberg's representative has presented the vote in yesterday's sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e194	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, a total of 15 minutes is allocated to members of the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to four lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e203	In Norway, we have broad agreement on the broad lines of foreign and defence policy. The government has a good cooperation with Stortinget. Basic trust between government and opposition in foreign policy is essential to safeguard Norwegian interests and for the role played by Norway internationally. The disadvantage of the broad consensus is often that there will be little discussion about foreign policy. The government should appreciate more discussion about our foreign policy choices, because it strengthens the anchoring of Norwegian foreign policy. We look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with a plan for changing our military contribution to the fight against ISIL. We will take responsibility, also militaryly, but it is primarily a political agreement between different population groups that can create peace in this region. A few weeks ago, we got a good news. According to the World Bank, for the first time under 10 pst. of the world's population live in extreme poverty. Assistance and trade have contributed to economic development in many of the poorest countries in the world. Efforts at vaccines, health care during birth and schooling have contributed to the development of many countries. Today there are more poor people living in what we call middle-income countries than in the poorest countries in the world. Good distribution is thus the key to combating poverty. This year's debate on the aid budget will be reprisals at the usual political theater where the Minister of Foreign Affairs is cutting a lot, and the Christian People's Party and the Left are negotiating a lot of money back. What worried me the most was the big cuts of the UN organizations and some civil society organisations said they supported these cuts. Doctors Without Borders says that the Ebola epidemic could have been stopped earlier if the UN agencies had had a better basic allocation and had been able to set up a health offer at short notice, and that they did not have to wait for major headlines in the media and collect money from the international community. That is why we need a stronger UN. The UN Food Programme tells of hunger in refugee camps. The refugee camps in Sahel only receive 39 pst. of the appropriations declared necessary by the United Nations. That is why we are not in a time when Norway can cut off its UN contribution. Yes, there is inefficiency, but who in the world will take responsibility for a better organized world and strengthen the UN if not Norway? In our alternative budget, we propose more to the UN organisations and to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. I am pleased that the cooperation parties followed these priorities in their final agreement. We should also find solutions in the new era, so that funding strengthens both the High Commissioner for Refugees and the work of the Food Fund. In the middle of this debate, we will take part in the awards of this year's Nobel Prize. It was the head of the trade union movement who initiated the cooperation between the employers' organisation, the association of lawyers and the human rights organisation in Tunisia. It filled the vacuum of power when the dictatorship fell. The trade union movement in Tunisia thanks Norwegian LO for the support they received when the established tripartite cooperation took place during this period. This shows the importance of strong civil society organisations. It was wrong to make such a big cut in this budget, and I am glad that this was reversed by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has worked intensively with Russia to get the situation and the flow of refugees in Storskog under control. The work started a little late, but has given very good results. At a time of increased tensions in Europe, we have a self-interest in keeping a low voltage level in the north. In my opinion, the North Region Initiative should be strengthened, not cut. We need more dialogue and more concrete cooperation projects at a time when we are experiencing increased tension in Europe. The situation in the Balkans is more unstable than for a long time. The political and judicial system in Bosnia is disintegrating. There is no trust between the opposition parties and the government parties in Macedonia and Kosovo. The strong interests of Russia and Turkey in this region can make these conflicts worse. Our projects for the construction of the rule of law in these countries are also about our own security. It's about getting criminals convicted and stopping cynical human traffickers. Criminal gangs may operate in these areas due to corruption and lack of justice. There is hardly a bad time to cut in our small appropriations in the Balkans. Europe must not reduce its involvement in the Balkans to finance refugees at home. Because that makes it harder for us. We must prevent the conflicts in the Balkans from re-extinguishing. This defence budget follows the objectives of the long-term plan. That's good, because it doesn't do the budget for the current year. Nevertheless, it is clear that our competent Minister of Defence does not get a say in his own government. The Minister of Defense is anxious to point back when she is going to explain what is not good, but she is not near to delivering the increase she thought was absolutely necessary while she was in opposition. In her response to the challenges, she points forward – far ahead. We are now hearing from several teams that the long-term plan should be postponed, because the defence minister does not get the money she thinks is necessary. But the ability to solve the defence challenges lies neither in blaming their predecessors nor in asking those who come after to deliver better. There is no point in explaining a lot and raising expectations on their own guard, but the truth is that the government is not near to delivering according to these expectations that they themselves have created. In my opinion, the Prime Minister should listen more to the Minister of Defence and increase the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e224	Two years into the ageing period, we can record a completely different security situation than in 2013. The development of security policy in the world over the last two years has been characterised by a number of conflicts of increasing intensity and brutality. Conflicts with changing actors and with global ideologies are now a threat to Europe and a threat to Norway. Let me first deal with the factors that have shaped the budgets we are dealing with today. In 2015, we have seen a migrant and refugee crisis and several terrorist attacks on European soil. We have seriously seen what prolonged power abuses and transnational wars and conflicts can lead to in our globalised age. Syria's long-standing civil war, together with a general, growing crisis in the Middle East, has given ground for refugees and despair, but also a renewed revival of terrorism founded in radical Islam. We see in the region a more inconspicuous balance of power with ever-changing alliances. The result is a more uncertain world than before. To combat terrorism and extremism created to spread fear and enemy images, we must work locally and globally. Our preparedness and intelligence have been strengthened as a result of the change in the normal situation over the course of the year. The government builds secure communities to prevent extremism and environments that create foreign warriors. We have long seen the capacity challenges of the migration system, which was behind the necessary cuts in asylum policy this autumn. Even though the number of refugees now goes down at our borders, we must look at those who, by means of human traffickers, risk their lives in order to come to Europe. Despite many setbacks in the last two years, there may be reason to be positive for the time to come. Despite the instability in the region, Tunisia, the country where the Arab Spring began, has established a democratic government and a new constitution. Later today, Tunisia's national dialogue receives the Nobel Peace Prize for its efforts to get there. - Congratulations on the peace prize, I suppose it's deserved! In Syria, convergence of interests between countries can contribute to a political solution in the longer term. The refugee crisis has led to a much stronger commitment in European countries to create peace and with the halting refugee flows. The emergence and terrorist attack of ISIL have led to a new community of interests between otherwise conflicting parties. Russia’s military entry into Syria requires coordination of efforts and a common view with the United States of America on what is needed to achieve regime change and peace in that country. Norway’s strategy involves clear priorities – humanitarian assistance for refugees in the neighbourhoods and support for the UN’s efforts to resolve the conflict in Syria. In terms of military efforts in the region, we have contributed to the training of the Iraqi army and Kurdish peshmerga. The government is now assessing whether this effort should be stepped up to include Syria. Norway is among the largest donors to Syria and its neighbourhoods. $1.25 a.m. kr goes to Syria and neighboring country this year. It is proposed to increase this amount to SEK 1,5 billion. kr in 2016. The Prime Minister has also taken the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria, to be held in London in February. The role of Russia as an occupying power and destabilizer in our neighbourhood is also very challenging. It is in the light of this picture, these developments, that we must further develop our foreign and defence policy. I feel that there is consensus in the Storting on Norway's role and objectives in foreign policy, but that there are differences in the view of how we achieve them. Too often, debates are linked to old, fixed tracks. I hope that in the new year, when we are going to deal with the global safety challenges, we can be able to address the new global threats we are experiencing and rethink priorities in foreign and security policy. There are also good developments in other areas of foreign policy. In trade policy, the EU and the United States are in negotiations on the TTIP, a comprehensive trade agreement that can create more jobs in a Europe that is still struggling with the aftermath of the financial crisis. In climate policy, we see that the green shift changes the way people and businesses have to think about. By investing in research and education, as the government puts it, we form the basis for the further development of new and greener technologies. This year's aid budget is historically high. Following the budget agreement in Stortinget, the 2016 aid budget is 37,4 billion. kr. It's going to be 1,l pst. of the total income of Norway. The draft allocation for ODA-approved refugee measures in Norway is 19.6 p.m. of the assistance framework, while Sweden consumes up to 30 pst. If we ignore the costs of refugees in Norway, it's going to spend 30 billion dollars. kr on assistance out in 2016. With the historic aid budget, we are strengthening efforts to prevent new crises and help in the neighbourhoods. Assistance aimed at specific fields such as education, health and business development ensures targeted development and lays the foundation for a modern and forward-looking development policy. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. We see that interest in the Arctic has been rising in recent years since Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen launched the first North Sea notification about ten years ago. Norway is a small nation, but we are world leaders in knowledge and competence about the Arctic. This puts the northern regions into a larger frame. With sea areas six times the size of mainland Norway, we're a maritime nation with our eyes fixed outwards. Presence is crucial for understanding and addressing climate challenges, and we need to attract interest from foreign stakeholders who will drive sustainable business development and value creation. It is gratifying to see that in these fields it is invested in this year's Northern Territory budget. The Committee agrees with the importance of continuing cooperation with all neighbouring countries in the Arctic. All have served with peaceful coexistence and cooperation between the countries, despite Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and the necessary restrictive measures that resulted. It is therefore positive that the government in the budget is based on Arctic Councils, Barents' cooperation, cooperation on fisheries management, the environment, nuclear safety and research, as well as priority search and rescue. The same applies to aid to the Baltic countries as well as Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. The fact that Norwegian presence in the northern regions has been given a higher priority is also visible in the defence budget. The defence budget for 2015 is at the base of 49 billion. kr. It's a real increase of 4 billion. kr within the limits of the applicable long-term plan. This means, in the Right's view, a sober and realistic budget. For the north, the budget has opened up increased navigation in the northern areas by submarine, enhanced surveillance of the Orion aeroplanes and increased activity levels in the Armour Battalion. Other priority areas of action include the maintenance of maritime defence, the strengthening of intelligence and, of course, the investment in combat aircraft — to name a few. In the spring, the new long-term defence plan is presented. It shall include the necessary conversion and modernisation of the Defence, so that we are better equipped to face both the present and the future threat picture. We must recognise that over the years there has developed an imbalance between the tasks of the defence, the agreed structure and the appropriations allocated to the sector. I would therefore like to thank the Council of State for the openness she has shown in the run-up to, and after, the defence chief's professional-military advice in her work on the long-term plan. This has generated great interest from all over Defence Norway. Together with the technical reports and assessments, these recordings are important in the work currently under way on the long-term plan. In a foreign security field, we must be prepared for the unexpected – at home and outside – and at the same time be prepared to take more responsibility for our own security. Let there be no doubt about where the Right stands: we want a stronger defence with increased operational capability, better clarity and ability to increase presence. The right has the 2 pst. ambition of NATO as a long-term objective and the maintenance of the level of at least 20 pst. investment share. As cost developments in the defence industry are faster than in other industries, investment costs need to be reflected in increased appropriations for the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e270	Let me first join the representative Halleraker's praise by the Minister of Defence for Transparency relating to the FMR and LTP processes. It has been useful and instructive for all of us. We've become used to living in a calm corner of the world. We don't do that anymore. In our part of the world too, the movements are great, the demographic changes are great, and the challenges are great. It makes us unsafe and unsafe. What we know is that yesterday's answer will not be able to solve today's and tomorrow's complex issues. The status quo is not an option. More of the same thing doesn't work anymore. Dialogue alone does not lead anywhere. We need to be able to make decisions that balance a knife’s edge between devoting power to protect our freedoms while at the same time avoiding going on chords with the same values we want to protect. In the middle of this is Norway. That's in the picture we need to figure out our role. More Europe, some say, despite the fact that more and more Europeans are saying something else. Closer transatlantic cooperation, others say, while the United States is gradually changing its foreign policy focus. Fully behind NATO, we all say, while the will to fund national defence is relatively small. It can also have a connection. Some cling to a top-heavy, heavy-rooted, and small-handed UN. Others feel that there is a good neighbourhood to the east that needs to be prioritised. Some believe that Nordic cooperation should be strengthened and others call for more national autonomy and self-determination. Most are like Ole Brumm and say yes to everything and then exposes uncertainty and some confusion. The latter is a questionable solution. If we say yes to everything, we risk going our shoes off. Our first task is to manage our own country's interests, and then we have to give priority. We may disagree on how we reach the goal, but Norway is a small country, and we have to be able to put something in front of something else. It is not easy to change a policy that has been going on for many years, and which has had widespread uprisings in the Stortinget. Different governments have conducted different rhetoric, but have practised almost identical foreign policies. So where do we go now? More of the same doesn't hold. Norway can no longer have leading roles in almost any foreign policy field. It will not be possible both to be offensive to the EU, to lead the international climate battle, to be the world’s peace brokers, to be world leaders in the fight against poverty, and to conduct host country conferences linked to conflicts closely and remotely. We must wish that, but our economy and our capacity will in the long run not make it possible. The challenges of the world have drawn closer, and in the future we will have to spend more resources on challenges and conflict resolution in our own country and in our neighbourhoods. I am therefore pleased that the government is committed to a policy with clear priorities anchored in liberal values and that it has as its main objective the safeguarding of central national interests. National interests are key — not with the aim of being introverted, but with the aim of being realistic. Our many commitment to peace mediation should be carefully analysed, and it's worth noting the master Ada Nissen's dissertation with the title The Peace Architects. Norwegian Peace Diplomacy since 1989. It was mentioned in the last issue of the Morning Paper, and Nissen’s conclusions are that the long-term effects are depressing. Radical Islam has been given footholds throughout Europe, and the fight against our values of freedom and our way of life is real. Terrorism with a background in religious ideology and fanaticism is increasing in scope. Combating terrorism is demanding and will require more and more resources. Well, that's got to be a priority. We don't have a choice. The government has started this work. The concentration of assistance, both the number of beneficiary countries and the concreteisation of areas of activity, is part of this process. That means that it will no longer be possible to give everything to everyone, but that we have to put something in front of something else. What should be given the highest priority could vary. But whatever that means, we all have to downgrade something we wanted to support earlier. The alternative is increased taxes and taxes to finance more of everything – perhaps until such increases no longer provide increased proceeds, and our own well-being is weakened. However, it is only when resources are limited that real political priorities are revealed and policies are created and outsourced. In a democracy, it is fundamentally positive. Maybe we even get a pluralistic press on the purchase? The defence capacity of Norway has gradually deteriorated. Development has accelerated. The peace yield after the Western victory in the Cold War has been collected, and national defense has been deprived. We're all guilty of this. The fact that the opposition has found a few extra dollars for the defence in addition to the government's draft budget is, in fact, a failure statement. It is a confession that one does not understand that the individual elements of the defence cannot be seen separately, but that a addition one place leads to imbalances elsewhere. Next year's defence budget has a historical growth of 9.4 p.m. – mostly to finance new fighter aircraft and prepare for the reception of the planes, but equally fully is the government’s commitment to the Defense Historically High. The changed security policy situation requires priority to be given to increased surveillance, presence and sovereignty in the northern regions. The government therefore increases the level of activity of both maritime patrol and submarines. It is also important that Norway has a real threshold defence with robust and flexible operational departments that can address changing challenges in view of the current threat picture at all times. The budget is a good start to the annual budgetary increases that will necessarily have to be in the wake of the new long-term plan presented in the new year. If we want to maintain a national defence capability, appropriations for defence must be put ahead of appropriations for other good purposes. We're not talking about a hard work or a force action, but about a permanently higher priority of the Defense. I hope a total increase will recognize the challenges the defense is facing. For some, it is tempting to use the Defence as a balancing item. This year, unfortunately, the Left Party has been particularly tempted. The proposal of the lot to reduce the allocation to the fighter aircraft project by 2,5 billion. kr is an impossibility. The government's draft budget for the 2016 fighter aircraft project is expenditure committed through Norway's international partnership and is linked to the Ministry of Defence's commissions already received through previous budgets. In other words, the payments for 2016 are fixed and the savings billions for 2016 are not available. The simultaneous participation of the Left in a majority comment where the Party underlines the importance of not reducing the allocation of the fighter aircraft project is a good example of double accounting. In these times with renewed focus on Defence, I will end my post by declaring a poem that I was sent from Marinen's war veterans – this to underline the need to value those who have put life and health at risk in order to secure the freedom we enjoy today, and to give inspiration to all of us. It sounds like this: To the Norwegian people and elected representatives Do not let new generations experience being powerless to a modern enemy, as we did. Save them for that humility, and spare them for that shame; and save them for the unnecessary suffering that we felt. Do not let them die in vain, in a fight they are not prepared for. Train them! Don't let them stand naked and unarmed in the enemy's spherical rain. Put them on! Don't take for granted those who are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country. Valuation them! Don't let those who get hurt home from the fight be bumped into the cold. Have patience and help them! Take care of them at home when their loved ones are at war. Coming home to a family is invaluable! Don't let that happen again. Learn from the story! This is our will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e336	Today, the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to the dialogue Quartet in Tunisia. When the wave of popular uprisings was not successful in the Arab world, Tunisia was also on the verge of political collapse and war. But representatives of civil society – human rights fighters, different associations, employers, employees – took responsibility. This makes them exemplary in the Arab world, even though the challenges are great. Tunisia, like our own history, shows the importance of civil society for social development, for democracy and for human rights. Assistance through civil society is a heart issue for the Christian People’s Party – with good reason. The fight for the aid budget was in the autumn a much more important part of the budget negotiations than usual. The stream of asylum seekers got the government to present a supplement to the government budget for next year. There was 4.2 billion. The increase in the cost of refugee measures in Norway covered aid operations in the poor countries. It was incomprehensible and unacceptable to us in the Christian People's Party. Especially incomprehensible was the fact that the largest cut-off frame the budget line for long-term assistance for civil society. It was reduced in Appendix 1 to one third of the 2015 licenses. In the budget agreement, we added Chapter 1.3 billion. kr and remove the whole cut. The government proposed to remove the full rights to transitional assistance - efforts to relieve the need to help frame groups to cope with crises. Today we decide to re-establish the budget chapter and allow 200 million. kr for 2016. The budget item for international agricultural research is important for climate-resilient agriculture and food security. The government has proposed to cut down the permissions to one fourth of Appendix 1. We reversed the whole cut. I cannot review all budget lines that have been increased through the budget agreement in the autumn. In the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, we covered the entire expenditure increase for refugee measures in Norway by increasing the aid framework accordingly. That's not how far we got into the budget agreement, but it's $2.50. In some cases, we received a record change in a submitted aid budget in fresh funds and tough priorities. Only by the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left were united on this task, we had the power to reach this far. I will – also from this pulpit – give the Left great tribute for that very thing. We had some heavy dragonfights about some serious cuts in the aid budget, but I want to give the government a boost to stick to the agreement to escalate the education aid. Although there were some cuts in the aid budget, we also had a broad impact on the efforts of the disabled at least at the present level. I'm also happy about that. In the budget agreement, our support to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, to the World Food Programme and to Norwegian emergency aid for crisis areas – not least around Syria. The Syrian conflict is mostly in the media's searchlight and touches us strongly through the refugee dream we see. But relief needs more space. The UN has several relief tablets — often they are heavily underfunded. Poor Nepal is this year a hard frame of several earthquakes. The level of our help to vulnerable groups that have to stay up through winter. Norwegian help organisations are ready to help. I ask our competent Foreign Minister Burnde to respond quickly and positively when they ask for urgent assistance to help just postpone groups in Nepal. Norwegian development policy needs to become more coherent and more powerful. The need for solidarity is great. Increased assistance increases the effectiveness of action. That is why the budget agreement of the House was important. I've spent most of my time helping because there could have been very dramatic changes this cottage, when it comes to assistance. Fortunately, we've been able to avoid that. So I just want to comment briefly that we see a strong bet also within the defense. There is a need for them to increase the scope we see, in the light of the security situation we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e366	It is symbolic that today the Stortinge discusses the foreign and defence budget on the same day that the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to the dialogue Quartet in Tunisia. We're lucky. We live in a peaceful corner of the world, but we shall not travel far until people experience terror, war and poverty as their everyday lives. In former times, when many of the North also lived in poverty, one did not know about another. Today, the image of another life is a keystroke away. The smartphone has made its way all over the world. We see a population migration that lacks parallel in recent times. It can only be the beginning if the global community does not want to create peace, smooth out the enormous differences and give hope for a future for the many millions who have lost their lives in their own countries. We have to take action on the causes of migration. It is both security policy, distribution policy, peace mediation and food policy. In this turbulent time, the government's answer is a big cut in the means of assistance. ‘The Nordic countries’ attacks on aid are heartbreaking. The fundamental truth about assistance is that it works, and often brilliantly, but that it is chronically underfunded’» [[...]] Jeffrey Sachs, one of today's leading economists in today's Economy, wrote November 12. Sachs strongly warns against extensive cuts in aid. He writes in the article that world now stands in the paradoxical situation that we have adopted ambitious and very important conservation goals. Despite the fact that the world has gathered around the measurements, a follow-up Sachs may experience that those who have been the most important global champions, they abruptly turn their backs on the same target. For the Center Party, it is an overarching goal to participate in a less unequal society. Disparity and poverty are causing unrest. It applies both nationally and globally. This must always be the aim of our aid policy. We have a lot of work to do. The impact measures that Norway has taken to adopt on 25 September this year are ambitious: eradicating all poverty, eradicating silt, safe and promoting good health and education for all. It will require a high priority of international work and targeted assistance over the years to come. The Central Party, in its alternative state budget, decided to increase the aid budget by about 4.2 billion. In addition to the government's proposal for a State budget. Compared to the budget agreement between the cooperation parties, the Central Party increases the aid budget by about 1.3 billion. kr. I'm completely overconfident that aid is lifting many out of poverty. At the same time, there are shared views among some about the effectiveness of help and how much Norway should allow. But very few people here in the hall doubt that the money Norway gives in beef, for food, water, medicine and shelter, is particularly useful. That's also why the Prime Minister in ours asked the rhetorical question whether Norway would help the many instead of the few. Norway could help so many refugees in the vicinity, the money stretched far better there. Nevertheless, the government did not take the consequences of its own analysis when the budget was put in the fall. Then there were those who were given priority instead of the many. B.C.E. kr was given in tax bills, while the government only saw need for a growth of 1.25 billion. kr in beef aid to Syria's neighbourhood. Seven times more in tax relief than in relief can be seen as a strange priority. At the same time as we see an unimaginable crisis occurring today, Norway needs to think long-term in its aid policy. As I said in the introduction, the world has now gathered around 17 bearer targets. They're all important, they're all ambitious. As we know, never should a parent point to a favorite among their children. Maybe we should be careful about highlighting a good and important goal over others. We must also make every effort in the area of aid policy to ensure that all people meet their most fundamental needs. So I want to draw out goal number in particular. 2: By 2030 we shall eradicate sulphur, achieve food security and better nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture. It could be taken straight from the Center Party's party program. As a party, we were created with the aim of facilitating the production of food. The centre party wants Norway to use more resources to provide more people with safe and secure food. It applies both nationally and globally. A strong commitment to agricultural aid is therefore a central part of the aid policy of the Centre Party. What makes me even more happy about the load measurement is to read goals 1 and 2 together. Not only shall we eradicate so much, but we have also committed ourselves to eradicating all poverty. Can we do both at once? We can't just -- we have to. Studies have shown that the most effective way to reduce poverty is to support small farmers in developing countries. There are no other industries that can compare with agriculture when it comes to creating employment and economic repercussions for the very poorest in the world. Norway has a high level of competence before agriculture, and we have experience sharing. The long-term aim of the centre batch is to provide agricultural assistance of at least 10 pst. by Norway's aid budget. We were in the red-green government, and we hope that we can eventually get more people on the Stortinget with us on this. For the Central Party, it is important to support the construction of nation states that are governed by a living democracy and the decentralisation of power. Spreading power has led an active civil society in each country. Many of the major democratic reforms in the world have come from civil organisations. A recent example is the Quartet for National Dialogue in Tunisia, which is being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize today. This house tried the government on a grip that, fortunately, is not done often. The government tried to change Norwegian aid policy by means of a budget decision. With a pen stroke, they wanted to turn to the establishment of the aid budget, and that without professional justification. One thing is the drastic cuts in the rewards of aid to poorer countries. That the government proposed to cut by 4.2 billion through the additional proposition. On the aid budget, be a little solidarity. At least as serious, but with much less attention it was that the government engaged extensively in the civil society organisations that are making a major and important effort across large parts of the world. So far, there has been a political deal about the value of supporting civil organisations working for human rights and democracy. It's for good reason. No professional test has been provided to give positive development to extensive cuts in the promises of civil society. A small amount of Norwegian aid is as effective as supporting civil society. What we allow, developing countries are getting back together many times due to extensive voluntary efforts by these organisations. Civil society actors also contribute to critical debate on Norwegian development policy, among others through the current aid. I hope the government doesn't want this debate to stop. The Central Party proposed in its alternative budget to strengthen the rights of civil society by close to 1.3 billion. kr. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left here thought equally and corrected a loss that could have done irreparable damage. The centre party wants international cooperation between sovereign, democratic nation states. We want to ensure a strong UN that can help us solve global challenges together with other nations. It is alarming that today the United Nations budget is under heavy pressure. This will be the case, among other things. as a result of large contributors cutting off the UN's licenses. At a time when the United Nations budget is under heavy pressure, Norway must continue its promises to the United Nations organisations. In its alternative budget, the Central Party decided to reverse its government and cooperation parties in the UN Development Fund, the UN Population Fund, UNICEF and the UN Women’s and Equal Opportunities Organisation. The most fundamental task of all the populace is to ensure the security of the citizens of the country. The overarching objective of the Norwegian defence is to safeguard the citizens of Norway and safeguard national interests. The international security situation makes it clear that national security must be a clear priority. The security image will change rapidly. We've seen that in particular for the last two years. We have seen extensive military operations in the heart of Europe for the first time since the war. At the same time, we see an even more inconspicuous picture of conflict in and around Syria and Iraq. On top of this, we have experienced several disastrous terrorist actions in Europe. All these events underline the hold for a strong, operational and persistent defense, training for several different scenarios. Our freedom depends on Norway always having an operational defence. All Defense Departments must have successfully completed their training at any time. It is pointed out from several quarters that the number of training days has to be increased and that there is insufficient room for activity, activity and training in the budget of the year. There is cause for concern that the Army and Coast Guard are actually weakened. This makes it harder to achieve the objectives of the long-term defence plan even if one in dollars and cents is in the next year's budget, as opposed to the year's. The Centre Party prioritises the maximum operational capability in the alternative budget for each krona and increases the privileges of training for the battalions, exercises in the Home Guard, sailing in the Maritime Defense and flight hours in the Air Force. This is how Norway can ensure a lasting defence that is always offered to defend Norway. The size must be bid to increase the permissions, not only temporarily but permanently. In the proposal for a State budget, the Central Party proposes to strengthen the pledges by just over 200 million. Compared to the government's originally proposed budget, or 277 million. Compared to the comparison. Norway has been asked to increase military contributions in Iraq and also to contribute militarily in Syria. I want to moderate the government to caution. Norway has no tradition of making military contributions without mandate from the UN or as part of a NATO operation. Norway is not a military power, but a humanitarian power. Norway can mean a difference, not necessarily by being the largest military contributor, but by being a great humanitarian contributor and a great broker where needed, because political solutions are needed to resolve these crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e413	I was a kid in the '80s. Then the conflicts and hostilities were very locked up. What child was taught to be afraid was nuclear weapons. Warrior was something that happened far away, and refugees were something that belonged to World War II. Now we live in a much more complex and complicated world, which is not as easy to explain to children as it was to us who grew up in the '80s. Russia has a completely changed position. Conflicts that happen far away from us quickly get very close to us. Human rights violations that happen far away from us are also fast approaching us. The terror, which after all the most affects people ashore far away from us, can also suddenly be on our doorstep. There is a lot to comment on when discussing the entire foreign budget. I have to focus on some things, and that is the discussion that has been linked to the budget. Firstly, I am pleased with the consensus we have been able to achieve. But I am also pleased that education, health and girls have had the main priority throughout the process, both at government and at the Christian People's Party and the Left – when we were met with a draft budget with dramatic cuts in very important areas for us. I would like to return my thanks to the Christian People's Party for a good cooperation to make this a budget that we too can stand for. Here, there are especially four areas I want to raise. Supporting civil society and civil society's efforts to build civil society also in other countries, I believe is a fundamental part of our assistance. Both to build democracy, to promote human rights, and in particular that Norwegian organisations have been good at working with equality, I believe is an important work to continue. It is also an important effort to build well-being and the future in the countries with which we work. Secondly, it was important for the Left to reverse some of the environmental cuts proposed by the government. After all, we're running a continuous fight to make the government the best possible when they, for example. Go to Paris. I believe that they have received very good help, both in the external budget, in the environmental budget and in other budgets. The cuts that existed had been a very poor mandate to act internationally for the Norwegian government. Now they have a budget that allows them to go out and work actively to tackle the climate and environmental challenges. The third cut to which we were very critical was the great cut in research within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in such an inconceivable time as we live today. In fact, at a time when we really need research in the whole field of foreign affairs – in order to have both a lively debate and a knowledge base for politicians to make wise decisions – it is important that we have good research programmes in foreign policy. Therefore, the Left is particularly pleased that we were given back money for research. I think that is going to be crucial to how we are going to deal with the major crises we are now facing. Similarly, a little support, but as the government has tried several times now, and now comes a little warning: Don't even do it again. It doesn't sound very exciting with the term RORG. I think it should really be called 'debate support'. It is about having a live foreign policy debate in Norway. To be completely honest, I believe that very many of the interpellations that are being raised in the Grand Duchy within different geographical areas and different foreign policy themes have been created in debates created in organisations that get the support of this particular pot. This is how Norway is able to have a lively debate in many of the fields that we had not had any knowledge or public debate about otherwise. The fact that people actually do a lot of voluntary work to raise forgotten conflicts, to promise cooperation with geographical areas and to always have expertise in different areas, I think it's crucial that we tackle the challenges ahead. The last point I want to stay by, and that concerns me internationally right now, is equality and women's rights. This is one of the areas where we now see crazy development on many fronts. We experience countries that go in the wrong direction in many of the areas that we believe are important for the rights of girls and women. We see that female fetuses are systematically aborted in those countries where it is legal and possible. We see several countries where rape leads to prison sentences because it is considered adultery. We see that more and more countries, like Nicaragua the last time, make abortion punishable, and it is also dangerous for doctors to help women whose medical follow-up may lead to an abortion. We have stories from countries like Tanzania, where women die on the stairs to the health centre because the doctor inside the health centre is afraid of having an abortion in his statistics, and that's the only health care the woman needs right there and then. We experience that in several countries sexual harassment is spreading, at the very top of the social team, and it becomes more difficult and difficult to fight it. Sexual health and reproductive health will be important for women’s future rights. That's why the Left is going to raise equality, girls' rights and these very issues in many budgets ahead, and we're happy that we got a boost on this. It is important that it is also linked to the educational effort we feel that we are with the government about. Focusing on knowledge and education is what can really lift generations and countries out of poverty. We have a lot of budgets we're discussing at the same time, and I want to add two comments to that. I should have liked to talk a lot about defense. I believe that we are facing major challenges now, including in terms of investment. Just to point it out: the left is not against fighter planes, but we have consistently voted for fewer planes during our vote. We also do that in our primary budget, although we didn't think it was something we were going to have a majority for in this room, because that majority has been massive from SV to the Progress Party the times it has been adopted earlier. The North is an important area and will become even more important in the future. I don't know what happened, but I'm very happy that the foreign minister's efforts – as I think it might be – now make us start to have solutions for Storskog. It is important that we have control of our external borders that we are responsible for enforcing against Europe. But there are also major challenges to Svalbard in the future, with a coal price that means that the coal we're doing there is now not close to being profitable. It is then important to develop new businesses in that area. It is important to be able to use the infrastructure that we have developed over many years in relation to mining, to new industries and new opportunities. Just as we have changed the Kings Bay Company and the New Ålesund Society from a mining society to a research infrastructure-based society, there are now opportunities to do the same with, for example, Swea, if it turns out not to be profitable further on. Developing the port areas and opportunities to land fish on Svalbard, I also believe that exciting ideas should be stimulated and developed further. I think there are a lot of nutritional bases you can develop on Svalbard in the future. That's what I think is going to be an important investment for the whole Big City, being creative in giving Svalbard's population space to develop the business they need to keep that society alive. It does not mention this budget in particular, but it comes back in both the transport budget and other budgets. I think we need to have a joint effort to be able to keep the Svalbard community alive in the future, and it requires that the Storting actually care about raising that theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e436	The world is facing significant challenges today. In 2016, we will have to deal with the climate crisis, four humanitarian crises defined as “level 3” of the UN, and at the same time challenges for freedom and democracy through authoritarian and violent flows in a number of countries. Norway is bound by a number of international obligations, which are not only to be fulfilled on sunny days. It is precisely a demanding situation that we have to show more solidarity and not less. There is no response to cut aid, and SV has made a major commitment to aid through humanitarian aid, climate and environmental measures and the long-term through support for civil society. Climate, conflict, capital and women shall be important in Norwegian development policy. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, warned in an opinion of 11 November this year against cutting off international aid to finance refugee expenditure in host countries and said that increased refugee expenditure should not be at the expense of long-term assistance. This can reinforce the challenge facing the world, and lead to a vicious circle in which the world's most vulnerable groups worldwide are the losers. International rules allow us to use a share of development assistance for refugee action in Norway. However, there is something else to finance a sudden increase in refugee expenditure through cuts in the aid budget. SV believes it is both unsolvable and unwise. Long-term and a holistic approach is essential to prevent new crises and to create stable and fair societies in developing countries. Therefore, Norway must work towards a predictable path for long-term assistance, both in international work on the OECD/DAC acquis and in Norwegian aid budgeting. SV therefore believes that a ceiling should be set on the proportion of the aid budget that can be used in refugee measures in Norway, for example, 10 pst. In the SV's alternative budget, we have increased humanitarian aid in Syria and the neighbourhoods to a total of 3 billion. So it's going to be $1.7 billion. in addition to the government's proposal. In consultation with eleven Norwegian aid and solidarity organisations, it is pointed out that an increase to a total of 3 billion. humanitarian aid to remedy the situation of refugees in Syria and the neighbourhoods is a moderate estimate. International solidarity must also be green. People in poor countries are hardest hit by climate change, although they have contributed least to the problem. If climate emissions are to decrease, growth in developing countries must be on premises other than growth in the West. This is only possible if rich countries assist poor countries in greening this growth. SV proposes a total of SEK 2.1 billion. kr for climate assistance in addition to government proposals through the green fund, forest money and climate action and renewable energy in poor countries. Norwegian organisations contribute to strengthening and building strong civil society organisations in developing countries, which in turn are a prerequisite for well-functioning democracies. Today's peace-price distribution to the Tunisian Quarter of National Dialogue shows the potential of a united and strong civil society for peaceful development in a country in a very challenging time. Civil society assistance plays a central role in addition to bilateral and multilateral assistance. Civil society reaches the most vulnerable groups and has developed through many years long-term work networks and trustworthiness that are essential to reaching vulnerable and vulnerable groups effectively. Therefore, civil society is a third area that SV has prioritised high in the budget. The Norwegian defence shall be tailored to the real security challenges we face. In the SV's alternative state budget, it appears that we are cutting the defence budget. We believe that this is a fair reduction, provided that we give priority to the tasks that are most important to our security, and that the capacity to defend Norway and manage the Norwegian sea areas is at the heart of the defence priorities. Norway must give priority to investments in its defence to strengthen its defence capabilities in the north over military operations abroad. That's why we've proposed redeploying 600 million. kr to the operational branches of the Army, Coast Guard and Naval Defense, to reduce the number of fighter aircraft Norway shall order, reduce bureaucracy and investment through Defence Building and, in particular, close Norway’s contribution to Iraq. The SV believes that the Norwegian defence must give priority to international engagement in the defence of international law and contribute to international peacekeeping and conflict resolution operations under the UN regime. Finally, I would like to refer to a proposal that we have submitted today from the SV, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to immediately stop the sale of weapons to countries which commit serious human rights violations and abuses against their own population.’ We hope this is a wording that several people can agree to in today's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e469	The representative Rannveig Kvifte Andresen has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e472	The main objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests – our values, our security and our well-being. The more serious the threats and the more inconspicuous the picture, the more important it is to prioritize and concentrate our efforts. The world has experienced great progress in recent decades, but the last few years have shown that we cannot continue to make progress for granted. Last year was the year with the highest number killed in war and conflict of over 20 years. Only in the last few weeks have innocents been killed in terrorist attacks in Paris, Beirut, Bamako and St. Bernardino. The conduct and brutality of ISIL and other extremists shock us all. They cause inconceivable suffering and destabilise countries and regions to a terrifying extent. In the greatest refugee crisis since 1945, over 60 million people have fled. The large migration flows to and through Europe challenge the EU and our common external border. It's also a function that since 1950 is the number of people in the Middle East increased four times, and there's a billion people in Africa who are likely to be two billion in 2050. Geopolitical imbalance and a lack of global problem-solving provide increased uncertainty and unforeseeability, and it narrows under destructive forces spread in the Middle East and elsewhere. In total, Norwegian foreign policy today has to deal with a very complex and demanding threat. The outside world has changed to such an extent that it demands a new review of how we set up foreign and security policy. I have therefore taken the initiative to launch a new, wide-ranging big message that will both analyse the changes we are facing, and outline the road choices that the government believes Norway should take in foreign and security policy – much too best to safeguard Norway’s interests. In the gloomy picture that has to be drawn in the area of security policy, I think it is important that we also draw out some points of light. The historical agreement between P5 and Iran is essential. Ensuring that Iran cannot develop nuclear weapons and that such an agreement between P5+1 is important. The fact that the United States and Cuba have established diplomatic relations after so many years also shows that there is light in the tunnel. The fact that, in 2016, perhaps a breakthrough in the peace negotiations between the Colombian Government and the FARC guerrilla, with Cuba and Norway as a fasilitator, the long-term armed conflict in Latin America with over 200,000 killed, millions internally displaced, shows that it is beneficial. As several representatives have been involved, today is an important day to show that there are some points of light. Little Tunisia, a pioneer in conflict resolution, receives the Nobel Peace Prize. It's for inspiration. Our policies must be anchored in the basic values that we share with allies and friends. Our policies must take today's major challenges seriously, and they have had consequences for the 2016 budget. Acute and widespread crises in the Middle East and Africa mean that the government implements the humanitarian powers of the times in Norwegian foreign policy. Humanitarian budgets are increased by 1 billion. kr compared to 2015. Norway is already among the largest humanitarian contributors to Syria. It is essential that we assist neighbouring countries that accept large refugee flows from Syria. With the budget that the government has raised, when we reach 37 billion. NOK, and it equals a little over 1,1 pst. by the GNI allocation for 2016. We have good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the aid budget, and I just want to remind you that the budget presented by the government, even after the supplementary proposal, means that Norway per capita was the world's most aided country, after Luxembourg. It is also the case that even after the supplementary proposal, we gave the most to climate finance in the world, and this is further reinforced by the good budget compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e495	I would like to thank you for a very good contribution, which sets out the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. But since this is a budget debate, my question is related to the budget. In the proposal submitted by the government, there was a significant cut in very many UN organisations. If this had been adopted, there would have been a significant change in Norwegian policy towards the UN. We heard here what the other vice president of the committee said about the UN, that this is a top-notch organization that is not so important to spend more money on. Then is my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does Tybring-Gjedde's Minister for Foreign Affairs share a description of the UN? Has Norway changed its policy and focus in relation to the UN? And at a time when so many countries are cutting their UN contributions, is it not precisely Norway's task to ensure that the international community is ready to help in very many of the conflicts we see around the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e502	I would just like to say at the outset that the 70-year-old UN plays a very important role, not least in many areas of conflict. Where there is war and conflict in vulnerable states, the UN has a mandate that is very adapted to pursue peace mediation, but also to be able to come in with assistance. Not least, we can see that through the important work of the Secretary-General's Special Mission, Staffan de Mistura, now does within Syria. With regard to the government budget, it must also be seen in a slightly wider context. If we look at our neighboring country Sweden or the Netherlands or Denmark, the government would also be able to keep up large appropriations for the UN in its additional proposal. As I said at the very end of my speech, Norway is the country, even with the supplementary proposition, which provides the second most per capita for development aid, and the UN is a heavy part of this. So we don't have to blackpaint the situation either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e509	As I took up my post, there was great unrest among many when the government decided to cut off support for civil society by 1.3 billion. kr, close to two thirds of the total allowables. Assistance through civil society organisations has proved to be at least as effective as other assistance. It is subject to systematic professional assessments and verification of effectiveness, performance and corruption assurance. Cutting back to civil society would be a complete conversion of Norwegian aid policy with a pen stroke. It is important that we have a thorough debate on this now in order to avoid corresponding proposals in the coming years. What professional evaluations led to before the government proposed such extensive cuts in the promises of civil society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e516	As I tried to draw a picture in my post, we're up in a new situation in many areas. The oil price is halved and Norway experiences a large influx of refugees and asylum seekers. In our neighbouring country Sweden, the Minister of Finance goes out and suggests that they may need to use 50 pst. by its aid budget to cover the costs of the first year of refugees and asylum seekers in Sweden. It's also help to help people who come to the country. I believe that we have found a good balance on this in the budget that we are presenting. Even with the changes we are making, we are the country in the world after Luxembourg that spends the most money per capita for assistance. As far as civil society is concerned, I agree that civil society is making a huge effort in development and aid. The reductions entered in the budget to cover the increased costs have now come back through the compromise with the Left and Christian People's Party. I have no problem with that – on the contrary. I think it is positive that civil society can also be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e525	It must be admitted that both the Left and the Christian People's Party expect an extra pleasant Christmas card from the Foreign Minister this year with what we have done in the budget. Some of those things can be expected that the Left and Christian People's Party together will also give priority. What surprised me most about the profile that the Right has at least had in the past is that you have such a dramatic cut in research. At a time when the field of foreign policy is changing a great deal, where it is multifaceted and complicated to deal with, so that the Foreign Minister also actually reports that there is a new big business message coming to us in the Stortinget, is it not important to have a great commitment to research so that we should also have Norwegian competence in the difficult foreign policy picture that we are facing right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e532	Because of the extraordinary influx of refugees and asylum seekers, I was in the situation that I had to reduce the aid budget by several billion. There is no desired situation, but there must be rather tough priorities. In relative terms, I chose to protect the UN and international organisations – continued to increase sharply in the humanitarian budget, continued to increase education efforts and protection of the health-related effort, where Norway has had international leadership. Then there were reductions in civil society. It is now adjusted by the Left and Christian People's Party, so the Christmas card is under writing. As far as research is concerned, the challenge is that the research package is funded through assistance. It is not a common allocation to Norwegian research institutions from what is called 02 in the professional language. This is aid money. In a situation that we were up in, I had to reduce what I felt was not going to those who were most vulnerable. It's not ideal, but it was demanding choices, which our neighboring country is also standing up in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e539	I'm not quite sure if I was reassured by the answer the Foreign Minister gave to the representative Huitfeldt about the UN. But I have another question. There has been some concern among many women's organisations and also among us in the Foreign Affairs Committee that there are some things that have been lost in the text of this year's budget. It's primarily about sexual rights, about words like sexual and reproductive health, about expressions like safe abortions. I want to add that the greatest social health differences in the world can be seen in reproductive and sexual health. It's about everything from sexual mutilation to abortion and contraception. I understand the concerns of many when these are expressions that have completely disappeared in this year's budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e546	Just first of all with research. It is also settled in the budgetary compromise with the Left and Christian People's Party. With regard to the United Nations, Norway remains one of the most significant contributors, and there have also been increases in the budgetary conciliation process. With regard to the question that Nybakk raises, it's a misunderstanding. I also saw this post from FOKUS. But we have shown that this is wrong, because there are references elsewhere in the budget term related to these questions. Yesterday, I also heard a speech at Norad's large conference on women and equality, and the representative Nybakk is to be absolutely sure that, in terms of gender equality, in terms of women and equality, in terms of safe abortions and reproductive health, this government is continuing the same offensive policy as the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e555	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e558	This budgetary debate rounds out a year — another year — full of changes in the international situation. In this picture it may be worth remembering that for the great majority of the world this year will have made progress; thousands of poor people may have taken steps towards development; there are fewer warriors and less armed conflict than before. Our task, however, is to address the challenges. We are now aware that Norway has been asked to increase its contribution to international efforts against ISIL. We take note that the government is now reviewing the request, and that it is coming to Stortinget with its assessments. We are ready to listen to the assessments and to give our advice. This is clear from the Labour Party: we have both a responsibility and an interest in contributing to the fight against what the UN Security Council calls a threat to international peace and security without equal. The greatest burden on ISIL's terror is carrying people in Iraq and Syria. Mainly, this is their struggle, in their country – it is a military struggle for rural areas, but also an ideological struggle against violent extremism sprang out of totalitarian Islamism. In the historical context, this is also a struggle for the direction of Islam. It must be led by the vast majority of Muslims who turn their backs on violence and oppression. Those who take this fight should not stand alone. That is what the UN Security Council marks in its Resolution 2249, which asks Member States to use all available means to prevent ISIL terrorism. We also know that terror against civilians has reached far beyond the Middle East – Norway cannot see itself except. Norway is currently contributing to the fight against ISIL through the training of Iraqi forces at the invitation of Iraqi authorities and clearly in line with international law. The effort has broad support in the Storting, and we assume that the government still considers that this effort is meaningful. The violence and terror of ISIL must be met with power, it must be from the police in each country and with military means of power to stop the planning and execution of terrorism, and to weaken the group's infrastructure and capacity. The UN Security Council has underlined that all States have a responsibility. That responsibility is also about acting wisely, in line with international law, and doing what is both right and what we as a state have the prerequisites to do. In this assessment, Norway must continuously give priority to the responsibility for ensuring the safety of our own neighbourhoods with the capacities we have and need to meet these tasks. We must stress that there must be political solutions here; it is not enough to pool and use military means of power as the only solution. The core of the instability that has allowed ISIL to grow is the political turbulence in Iraq and the civil war in Syria. Both sides must give priority to policy solutions, and this will take time and time. Today, a number of states are engaged in fighting acts over Syria, and in Iraq, not always with the same objectives and strategy. This prolongs the conflict, increases suffering, drives new people on the run — and in sum, it may end up giving ISIL greater space for action. Our contributions, current and possible future, must not contribute to this. Let's remind ourselves that for ISIL, it might also be a wish to develop confrontation that this is a struggle between Islam and the West. It's our job to make sure it doesn't happen. Finally, let me refer to the initiative taken by the Labour Party to make an additional contribution to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme. I'm glad that an overall committee ends up with an extra allocation. It's not big, but it's coming at the tamp of the year and will be well received. It underlines the invaluable importance of the UN for vulnerable people and for peace and is therefore a contribution to the fight against extremism. We are reassured that parts of the cuts to the UN proposed by the government in the supplementary number were corrected in the budget agreement. I believe what was proposed had been a very bad signal from Norway to the UN, which for 70 years has not always been as good as we would like, but which, after all, has been a continuous force for development against extremism – and the force that is present on the ground after the cameras have been switched off and the military have often returned. Therefore, Norway should maintain the experience of being a supporter of the United Nations, not least in the difficult situation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e582	As 2015 now draws to a close, we can see that the world has not become a quieter place. Wars, conflicts, crises and distress characterize the news picture. The climate crisis, the refugee crisis and the war in Syria dominate. At the same time, Norway is a peaceful spot in a troubled world – with great efforts for relief, assistance, sustainability goals and peaceful conflict resolution. This dualism also means that foreign policy conditions are increasingly taking place here in Norway. When heads of state and ministers meet in Paris to discuss climate, we know that it will have an impact on policy here in the country. When migrants cross the Mediterranean in hundreds of thousands, we see that many choose Norway as a country they want to seek asylum in. When the war in Syria continues to rage, and when ISIL continues its cruel and barbaric actions, we see that it strikes directly here in Norway and in Europe, with the recruitment of foreign fighters and terror. It is therefore important and positive that the political parties in Norway can concentrate on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, that we have a climate agreement and that we could gather on measures to meet the influx of refugees into Norway. In a world where the risk of polarisation and isolation is increasing, we must strongly highlight the need for dialogue, open trade and strong international agreements and organisations. When Russia grossly violates international law in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, we must follow our allies and their instruments. Alone and short-term thinking is a dangerous way to go. Small countries that are dependent on selling their goods in free competition depend entirely on well-functioning international agreements. This year's aid budget is historically high. Following the budget agreement in Stortinget, the aid budget is 37,4 billion. kr, or 1,1 pst. of GNI. The draft allocation for ODA-approved refugee measures is just below 20 pst. of the 2016 assistance framework. Our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden use up to about 30 pst. I heard the committee chairman talking about a political theater when it came to the aid budget. There was no theater, there were real negotiations in a very difficult situation, where the government had to find cover for large, unexpected refugee costs. It has been approved through international agreements how this can be done. Nevertheless, when we chose to listen to the recordings that came from the Christian People's Party and the Left, I believe that we have now received a historically good aid budget. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of GNI, and per capita we are at the top. I think there's little reason to call this theater. We have never experienced such a situation before – that there has been a major upheaval in the budget in a short time. We are strengthening efforts to prevent new crises and help in the neighbourhoods. Assistance aimed at specific areas such as education, health and business development ensures targeted development and lays the foundations for a modern and forward-looking aid policy. Through access to good educational institutions, a functioning health system and new jobs, people can work out of permanent poverty in the long term. We must continue to move towards more performance management and transparency, less automation in the distribution of funds and fewer goals in order to get more power out of each krona used. In addition, we must continue to have a geographical and thematic focus on which the government started in the current budget, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is noticing such a development. The focus on North Norway and the North is becoming even more important in the coming years. Norway's NATO membership is and will be our main guarantee of freedom. Alliert's presence, exercise and interaction in the north shows how important the north areas are also to NATO. Now it is ten days since asylum seekers have come across Storskog at all. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and His Department for good diplomatic crafts. We don't know about this product, but it seems that measures help. We need a good dialogue with Russia. People-to-people cooperation and interaction in the northern regions are important. At the same time, we must stand by our foreign policy ideals and rules of play. International law is the most important protection of small countries against abuse by large neighbours. That is why we must condemn and punish violations of international law. December 10th is a feast day for peace and reconciliation and a little breathing hole in a newsprint marked by war, conflict and terror. That is why it is a wise decision that the Nobel Committee has taken when they today award the Nobel Peace Prize to the Tunisian Quartet for National Dialogue. Therefore – finally, the world is in positive development. The Millennium Goals have largely been achieved, and now they are replaced by sustainability goals, increasingly being lifted out of poverty, and there are actually fewer wars in the world than in a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e605	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the government and the government's draft budget. It showed that the government was the task of being mature, and that they could provide a budget where one could actually also say that we have major challenges – we have challenges that we have to solve in both the shorter and longer term. We must also take account of what is now happening in relation to migration – and what is happening in Europe – as a result of the conflict in Syria and Iraq. Furthermore, we know that in both aid and development, trade and business development are the main contributors to poverty eradication, which allows countries to develop further to make a permanent exit from poverty. Therefore, it is important in the work of the government and has started, with the focus on health, education and industrial development. I would like as much as I can, encourage the government to continue the work that is now being done internationally with regard to trade agreements, and not least with the management of funds precisely in the direction of not making countries long-term dependent on assistance, but rather enabling countries to be able to export their goods to markets that are willing to pay and have the opportunity to import — that is essential. In terms of health, the government has made a formidable effort. Vaccination, female health, children, etc. precisely to enable the poor part of the world to participate in the positive health development of the rest of the world. This is a long-term work – it is not done overnight. This has to be carefully worked on – you have to be very dedicated to the task – and you have to think in the long term. You also have to see this in context with what we actually do in the field of education. Because that's exactly what we're doing in the poor part of the world, which could help to develop new ideas, new businesses and new goods and services, which can then be exported, so that you can get up and get out of poverty. Assistance is important, and humanitarian aid is important in a shorter phase. Business development and trade are what is the long-term part of solving the problems. In the autumn we have been hit by the migration that has occurred in Europe over time. There I want to give the Stortinget credit for actually taking the job of tightening up on some conditions, which means that you can try to bring down the flow to Norway. It is too early to say whether you have succeeded or not, but at least you have seen clear signs of improvement. But these things can come back if we don't show a firm attitude in this field. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing a very good job with his dialogue, among other things. to the east. The Minister of Justice is doing a fantastic job in his field to ensure that the tools that Stortinget has now provided for its use can be implemented. It is important to now use this arena — using these means — which the Storting has opened up through its decisions. You make sure you get the laws in place, you make sure you put the rules in place, and, not least, you show a handhold that is absolutely essential in this situation. I would also like to thank our Swedish friends for the work they are doing, which also contributes positively from the Norwegian side. The Progress Party supports the concentration related to the number of countries providing assistance and how to work on aid policy. This is important in order to maximise the impact of the money we actually spend, and I am looking forward to the foreign minister and the government continuing the important work they are doing in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e621	Significant changes in our security environment face new challenges. The changes require a lot from us both at home and outside. They require that we give priority and re-prioritisation and ability to make adjustments in the short term. We need to adapt to major changes in threat images and actors, in known patterns and in established truths. Our competent and committed personnel, both military and civilian, who are on duty every day, every hour here at home, and who perform missions on behalf of Norway outside, notice that these changes mean a lot to their everyday lives. The government has a clear view that the defence must be strengthened both economically and operationally. We will continue this work in the draft budget presented in October. The 2016 proposal represents a real increase in the defence sector framework by about 4.2 billion. kr compared to the 2015 balance of the budget. That's an increase of 9.6 pst. The total draft budget is just under 49 billion. kr. It's permeability, and it's a historically high number. According to the chairman of the committee, that is not enough. Thank you so much for your commitment. Then it's just to record that Huitfeldt's representative has not in any way reached through that view in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. I can also assure the representative Huitfeldt that I have not in any way used the words I would actually have had cover to use in relation to the economic and operational development of the Defense for the eight years her party put in the Ministerial post, and the years she herself put in government. The draft budget shows that we are taking the security policy situation seriously. We prioritise the acquisition of fighter aircraft, the ability to understand the situation, monitoring and availability, and we take – clearly – into account in the operating situation through an additional commitment to maintenance in the Marine Defense for 2016. This increase contributes to a slight increase in the proportion of GDP spent on defence and is around 1.5 pst. In the draft budget, the government grants a further 3.8 billion. kr to ensure that the acquisition of new fighter aircraft does not go beyond operational activity. The follow-up to the base-solution aircraft acquisition will be our main priority both in 2016, the next scheduled period and the time beyond that. It is an investment that is crucial to Norway’s safety. The government emphasises the maintenance of a high level of investment in order to ensure continued renewal and modernisation. The investment budget in the sector is about 15 billion. kr. That gives an investment interest of over 25 pst. NATO's target is as known 20 pst. In addition to the additional appropriations for fighter aircraft, considerable funds are allocated to the rest of the defence sector. The intelligence service is strengthened by 370 million. kr in addition to the level of ambition contained in the current long-term plan. Developments in safety policy and technology make such a commitment necessary. Technological and capacity modernisation shall improve the capacity of the service to address current and future challenges as the situation and threat picture developments in and around Norway. Through a marked strengthening of the 2016 Marine Defense Maintenance of more than 300 million. kr is taken a large part of the maintenance seat suspension. It facilitates a continuing high level of activity and increases the availability of vessels. The government wants a robust military presence in the north and proposes increased appropriations for the permanent stationing of a submarine in Ramsund. It ensures continuous operational availability and approximately 250 sailing days in the north compared to 45 days without this increase of 62 million. kr. More and more maritime patrol aircraft will increase the ability to monitor in the north areas, increase sovereignty and collect information. In addition, the Coast Guard shall give priority to north navigation. We have several major investment projects promoted in the draft budget, but let me just mention here a particular boost to the material situation in Home Affairs. We set aside over half a billion dollars for new field vehicles that improve both operationality and road safety, as well as reducing environmental emissions. With our military contributions in several international operations, we demonstrate our willingness to take joint responsibility for stability and security in conflict-affected areas. It's also an effort for our own security. The strength contribution of the UN operation MINUSMA in Mali with a C-130 transport aeroplane for 10 months from January is more than a doubling of the Norwegian personnel contribution to the operation. Transport aeroplanes are critical and highly requested niche capacity that enhances the operational capability of the operation, enhances the safety of personnel and reduces dependence on risky roads. We also have a contribution in Iraq to train and train Iraqi security forces to address the risk posed by ISIL's terrorism, both regionally and globally. Any further military and civil contributions are for the assessment of the government, and the government will usually come back to the Storting on this when these assessments are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e645	I have two questions. Question one: Will the long-term plan of the Storting come to spring? Question two: it is the government and the cooperation parties that decide whether there should be a broad agreement on the long-term plan. Will the Minister for Defence invite a wide-ranging settlement when the long-term plan is to be discussed in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e650	It is tempting to just answer yes to both questions and make the reply reply very short, but let me elaborate something. We have said all along that we intend to present the long-term plan in the spring session. I think it makes sense to start with the necessary changes that need to be made in the defence sector. I also agree with Huitfeldt's representative that it is important to add as broad a consensus as possible and as broad a settlement as possible. One of the reasons for this is that in the defence sector, perhaps even more so than in many other sectors, choices and priorities and assessments will have consequences for a very long time to come. This means that even if the government that sits has no ambition to get rid of the first, the choices made may also have consequences for future governments, and therefore it is important to anchor as wide as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e655	The acquisition of combat lyan shall be tried – called it – in a balanced manner with a corresponding value creation in the programme from the Norwegian side. One of the things we hope to get is that the AIM workshop will get maintenance jobs for the F-35 engine. In the class struggle yesterday it became known that the government is planning not only to transform the workshop into a limited company, but also to sell it, and that there is going to be a proposition to the Stortinget about it. In the budget configuration, a unanimous committee says that the government must work to ensure that AIM is able to compete for the maintenance contract for the engines. For that, an investment is needed that can amount to up to 1 billion. kr. Is it to avoid this investment that the department is now planning to sell the workshop to private?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e660	Converting AIM from a state enterprise, as it is now, and as it was transformed into 2011, into a limited liability company is just to position the company to both win contracts and develop further. It's not a completely unusual way to do it for companies that are in a competitive situation that can be challenging, but not least because we also see the need to develop the company even more commercially, and then the company model is a pretty good model for it. We're going to come back to Stortinget with a proposition, as the representative referred from the poster in the class struggle. This is something that opens up the possibility of a sale, but it has not been said that it will be a sale. It is a purely commercial assessment of what is appropriate and what serves the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e665	In the last year, several parties have been called upon to strengthen the defence, as the defense has scarce resources in a challenging time. The Minister of Defence also raised the issue when she commented on her professional military council and said that the head of defence has now clearly described the Council's intentions: on the one hand, they changed the security policy framework and, on the other hand, the required operational situation, which is in much of the Defence. A clear risk picture leads to the need to make a strategic choice, said the Council of State. There will be several road choices, both in the short and long term. One of these options will increase military participation in international operations, e.g.: in Syria, or to be more operationally present e.g. in the north. How does the Minister of Defence assess the scope of action today with regard to the availability of resources in the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e670	Thank you for the question. There were really a lot of things where it was interesting to get involved, but let me just briefly comment that the professional military council that the head of defence presented is a very important input into the discussion we now have, not least the review we now have in the ministry of what is to lead to the long-term plan that comes to the Stortinget. There's a lot of choices to make, and you have to give priority. You're going to have to say that, no matter what the financial framework, and that's what the government is adding up to. I'm also very concerned that no matter what kind of structure you finally decide for in the Storting, what we have must be trained, trained, financed and manned, so that it can work well. I also think there is a broad consensus on the Stortinget. With regard to the question of room for action, particularly in relation to any new or expanded international operations, the government's position is that we should, among other things, Now, the additional contribution we are now making in MINUSMA, the UN operation, has been further financed by nearly 82 million. kr. It is precisely to ensure that the operational activity in the defence sectors or in the defence as a whole does not go beyond that, and I believe that this is an important contribution to ensuring that the space for action does not shrink at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e683	I will first address proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, under Framework Area 8. There are many who have started today by praising the Peace Prize and hailing the Tunisian Quartet for contributing to a democratic and modern constitution in Tunisia and making Tunisia an Arab summer, unfortunately surrounded by many winters. I was in Tunisia five weeks ago as a guest from the Grand Duchy of Tunisia in the Tunisian Parliament and was in the middle of the enthusiasm for the peace prize and still cheering for the Constitution. Let me add that it's said very nicely about Tunisia now, but Tunisia actually needs action from us. They need help, but they need investment first and foremost. Tunisia needs jobs, employment for all the young people who are looking for something to do — and it's urgent. In some youth groups, unemployment is up to 40 p.m., and we also know that recruitment from that group in Tunisia to Islamist terrorist groups is alarmingly high. Both Norway, the EU and others have a major responsibility for ensuring stability and democracy in Tunisia. I hope that the present members of the government take note of this. This harvest represents a milestone in the development of the United Nations. On 25 September, the World Organisation adopted the new sustainability goals – sustainable development goals – a common work plan to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and curb dangerous climate change by 2030. The objectives are universal and require all countries. They take over after the thousand-year targets, which actually gave results. In particular, the target of halving the world’s poverty by 2015 – delivering results, reached. As we all remember here, Norway had a special responsibility for the old millennial objectives 4 and 5. It concerns the sexual and reproductive health of women and the control of infant mortality. There are still areas and countries in the world where the most dangerous thing you do as a woman is to bring children to the world. The two worst countries are South Sudan – not surprisingly – and Afghanistan. If mother dies when she gives birth, there is a great danger that the baby will not grow up, as we know. We must ensure that the fight against maternal and infant mortality continues under the new sustainability objectives. It is still important to support the GAVI vaccine alliance and its vaccination programmes. Through the sustainability objectives, the UN has demonstrated both strength, relevance and ability to act. But all UN special organizations are relevant in the field every day. From time to time, I remember returning to spring 2001 – this was before September 11th, while the Taliban was driving Afghanistan. We received reports from the refugee camps in the border areas between Pakistan and Afghanistan. There was one single organization up there – there was no CNN effect. It was the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, but they didn't have enough money. Today, the same organisation lacks money in Lebanon and Jordan. Like the representative Gahr Støre, I'm also happy that when we get to the effusion now, there's going to be some money going to the UNHCR in the border areas of Syria. I've seen the United Nations Development Programme and UNICEF in Mozambique, Vietnam and Laos, and I'm impressed by what they get – again: when there's no TV channels on, and when the soldiers have traveled. The Labour Party believes it is absolutely necessary to maintain the basic appropriations for the UN organisations at a high level, and has therefore returned funds that the government had cut. I am also pleased that the cooperation parties have done the same. We are also increasing the regional allocation to Latin America by 70 million. kr. Remember, this concerns, among other things. on the reconstruction of Haiti, support for indigenous peoples, on human rights and peacekeeping, in order not to talk about violence against women in close relations. We are also increasing the regional allocation to Asia and will recall the involvement in Afghanistan, Nepal, Vietnam and Myanmar. Finally, I want to finish where I started. I am very pleased that the committee has devoted so much space to women's rights in general and to sexual and reproductive health in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e715	The representative of Marit Nybakk has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e718	Norway is in the most challenging situation in several decades. The oil price has fallen, and the unemployment rate is increasing. We have a refugee and migration crisis. Europe is being terrorised. The security policy situation has not been more demanding since the Cold War. For the first time in history, an EU country, France, has invoked Articles 42 to 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon, the so-called solidarity clause. It is a description of the seriousness that rests on Europe now. Norway must be with its closest friends and allies, at a time when our fundamental values and our social system are threatened. The situation requires political accountability, that Norway be managed safely. Against a backdrop of instability and increasing unforeseeableness in our neighbourhoods and in Europe's neighbourhood, it is more than ever important that we have a government and a majority of people who have the ability and the will to give priority to alliance solidarity, security and enhanced defence capabilities. At the same time, the government takes international leadership humanitarianly and in development, through increased engagement and increased appropriations to contribute to the stability and development of other parts of the world that have an impact on our own security. In times of transition requirements, it is of great importance that the government also works actively to safeguard Norwegian trade policy interests. The Committee has recently given its assent to the Globalisation and Trade Biggest Communication, the first purely trade communication of 30 years. A broad majority supports the main lines of the Communication and the objective of pursuing an offensive trade policy based on Norwegian interests. When I mention this in a budget debate, it is of course because access to markets outside the world is a prerequisite for home welfare. Ensuring Norwegian business equivalent access to goods, services and investment in a globalised market is crucial both for the financial situation of the country and for the success of securing jobs and creating new ones. There is tension about whether the Member States will succeed in moving in the WTO process at the Nairobi Summit next week. Too many processes are in progress where Norway is outside, but which undoubtedly affects us. TTIP is one of them. An EU-US agreement will have a major impact on Norwegian business. As state councillor Helgesen has said, it's a reality we can't shut ourselves out of. The government is therefore committed to assessing the impact of a TTIP agreement on Norway, being active and best prepared to position us if and when such an agreement is reached. Active European policy is central to the government’s foreign policy work. The aim of European policy is to ensure that Norwegian interests are realised and to contribute to positive developments both in Norway and in other European countries. Cooperation with the EU is essential in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, and the EEA Agreement itself is the basis for this cooperation. 80 pst. of our exports goes to the EU market. Following overtime negotiations, the government managed to reach a very good agreement with the EU on the level of EEA funds for a new period, 2014-2020. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway participates in a number of EU programmes. In 2016, the Norwegian contribution will amount to EUR 381 million. euro. Programme cooperation with Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+ accounting for about 80 pst. is central. It can contribute to policy development in the EU and, in particular, provide opportunities for knowledge and network development between Norwegian and European environments. The ambition of the government is to bring home a larger share of this pot, and the result rate is happily increasing. A new and exciting action in this year's budget is a budget for research into European climate and energy policies. The new security policy situation, the climate challenges and the need for new economic growth have individually and collectively created a new momentum in EU climate and energy policies, including: support for the establishment of the Energy Union. The Energy Union raises important questions for Norway, as the largest exporter of gas to the EU market. The EU is also our main market in energy technology, an area in which Norway is the world leader. The EEA Agreement lays down the economic, political and legal frameworks for our main export sector to a large extent in the EU. Together with our own migration needs, it creates a need for faster and better analysis of development, how we can exploit the opportunities and improve our ability to understand and influence EU policies at an early stage. As the European Minister said in his statement earlier this autumn: ‘European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU. But the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e751	After some extra rounds – if I am allowed to say so – we have come up with a budget in defence, development and foreign affairs that is adapted to both the economic situation and the challenges we face in the short term. However, in such a budgetary debate, it must also be allowed to say that the challenges are probably greater than what the 2016 budget has put in place, so that there will probably be more extra rounds in future budgetary negotiations. The challenges are great in all possible areas, but despite that, we have put in place a total aid budget for 2016, if you include climate and forest, of 37.4 billion. kr. This is an increase – by comparison with 2015 – of over 4 billion. kr. This represents, as many people have been involved, approx. 1.1 pst. expected GNI in 2016. Despite the tight economic situation, government and growth — through negotiations — have continued the overall change in course that is so important, that humanitarian efforts are increased by 1 billion. kr, and not least about the longer-term focus on education. Global health is increasing by 150 million. kr. Clearly, education is becoming more important and important. Here I will refer to former President of Tanzania – he was President from 1961 to 1985, as far as I remember. He said, "What do we need to make us poor?" That's two things, said the president: education and money. It is that for assistance to be successful and for assistance to show results, education is a fundamental prerequisite. This is why it is so important that, despite the economic situation, there is room for further investment and more focus on this. There's a clear change here, and we might not have to look that much back, but under the red-green education was removed from the 2007 priority list. From 2005 to 2012, the investment in education was fixed at 1 billion. kr, while during the same period the budget increased by 9 billion. kr. It was a clear priority from the red-green. That's why it's good that all the parties now stand behind what the government has set as a priority in terms of education and, not least, in terms of trade. Trade is a prerequisite for people to work long-term out of poverty. The Committee further points out that ‘no country has worked out poverty without economic growth, industrialisation and trade’. This is a quote from the settings you have just entered into the Storing configuration. It is extremely important, and it is the committee that is behind this focus and this priority. Therefore, it is interesting to note that, despite the strong message from an aggregate size, there are still some parties who believe – when alone – that this is not a priority. I note that the committee leader reacted a little to an opinion from the representative of Tybring-Gjedde. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde said clearly that the UN is extremely heavy. If you can't get out of this pulpit to point to any challenges, whether it's the United Nations or relief organizations, and if we're not going to be able to have a critical look at the use of 37.4 billion. I'm afraid we won't be sure enough. Therefore, it is important to point out that if you are critical of their use and are more effective, you may be able to get more out of these 37.4 billions — more assistance, more help and more out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e768	In the active European policy of the government, EEA funds play an important role. They strengthen social and economic development, and they strengthen our bilateral relationship with important EU countries. They express Norway's close links with our European friends and neighbours and make important contributions to the European integration process. We are pleased with a good outcome of negotiations on EEA funds earlier this year, and we are now working to strengthen the strategic arrangement of EEA funds in the coming period. At the same time, it is important to remember that the EEA funds are just that – funds. They are means of promoting policy objectives, based on common European values. We can't accept that the funds are used in a way that conflicts with these values. That is why, in May 2014, we decided to suspend the disbursement of funds to Hungary. We did this because the Hungarian authorities had broken agreements on how to manage EEA funds. We also reacted to the efforts of the Hungarian authorities to narrow the scope for action of civil society. I am happy to inform the Storting that yesterday, from the donor side, we decided to suspend the suspension of the EEA funds for Hungary. This means that Norway will resume support for economic and social cohesion in the country. The suspension is repealed because the Hungarian authorities have complied with the requirements of Norway for the control and implementation of EEA funds in Hungary. This includes guarantees that Hungarian authorities will not interfere with the management of Norwegian civil society support. The tax authorities have waived the accusation against the NGOs of criminal activity. There is a broader political concern behind our position on the question of Hungary. European cooperation is under pressure. In Ukraine, the credibility of the European integration process is at stake. Norway is one of the countries that contribute most to supporting the Ukrainians in their Europeanisation ambitions. Russia has committed violence not only against Ukraine but against the entire European Security Order. Norway is with our friends in the EU and allies in NATO to face a more dangerous reality in Europe. ISIL, with its terror, aims to create division and polarization not only in the Arab world but also in Europe. Norway makes important contributions to the coalition against ISIL and to the fight against radicalisation. The refugee crisis and the migration challenge are challenging both the institutions of Europe and the moral fabric of Europe. Norway is a co-player of common European solutions. Additional and populist parties and political forces are on the rise in several countries. If they were to win out with their policies and solutions, we would have a Europe with stronger fragmentation and increased polarisation. We would have a weaker Europe. After the end of the Cold War, we had probably too optimistic a belief that the values on which Europe is based would spread. Too many of us thought enough that Europe's neighbourhood would be more like us. It wasn't like that. But when Europe and European values are now under so much pressure from the outside, it is all the more important that we are resolute in our defence of these values within Europe. We must confront forces in Europe that undermine these values. Faced with a more dangerous world and in the face of dangerous forces and trends in Europe, we must mobilise the values that make Europe strong, that make Europe a moral backbone, and that make Europe attractive, whether for Ukrainians or for people from other parts of the world. Then we must also be prepared to take the necessary measures to respond to attempts to undermine democratic rules of play, human rights and the rule of law. We are from the Norwegian side. We believe that the European Union, too, should be ready for this, as it says on the very basis of European peace and freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e792	It's a very good report from the State Council of Helgesen here, related to the work done to Hungary. It also shows in a good way that EEA funds are our contribution to the EU, but they should also be used strategically to achieve key policy objectives. The Helgesen State Council has also previously been involved in using EEA funds for Ukraine to ensure stability and the development of the rule of law in our neighbourhoods. My question is related to the situation in the Balkans. In this budget, the government has slightly fewer funds for the Balkans, and for many of those working on the development of the rule of law in this part of Europe in Norwegian projects, this is a significant cut. What will Helgesen state council do to increase our contribution in the Balkans and in Eurasia? This is also about our security policy interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e799	It is absolutely right that the Balkans is a region with still major challenges. It is a region where European integration has played an important role in stability and development, but where needs remain high. What we have the opportunity to do when we now go into the planning and negotiations with other countries on the use of EEA funds is to make use of a regional pot within the EEA funds, which are something new that has been negotiated, to use funds in cooperation with the current EEA beneficiary country towards neighbouring countries. This can be done in the Balkans, for example. This means that Croatia, a beneficiary country for EEA funds, will be able to use funds in other Balkan countries – in a way that, in cooperation with Poland, we will be able to work towards Ukraine. But these are the things we are going to discuss with these countries in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e804	The refugee situation in Europe has created a significant debate on finding better solutions to deal with it: strengthening external border control through Schengen, of which we are part, and strengthening Frontex, of which we are part. There is talk of establishing a common coastguard to deal with the situation in the Mediterranean and of changes to the Dublin Regulation, of which we are also part, with a fixed relocation mechanism. There is talk of the creation of hot spots, which has started. One of the challenges facing us is that countries do not follow up adequately what we agree on, increasing resources into these mechanisms. So you get a little bit behind. Since Norway is involved in most of this — what is Norway’s perception of this in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e813	It is quite right that the representative, Hansen, is concerned that the distance between the ambitions and the decisions you make, and the implementation and the ability to implement them is too great. It is a concern we share with the other countries that have received many refugees and migrants. We are very concerned about and provide Norwegian contributions, both in the debate and in the form of financial resources for external border measures, to migration measures in Greece and to the relocalisation scheme, but we are concerned that too few countries are making their contribution both in terms of reception and in terms of material efforts. There we stand on the same line as many related countries in the European debate. It needs more joint responsibility and more countries need to take their share of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e819	Norway participated in the Schengen cooperation, but not in euro cooperation. Nevertheless, our economy is closely linked to the EU economy through a lot of close trade cooperation and others. The EU is under great pressure a day, and in particular the Schengen Agreement is. Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, recently spoke in the European Parliament, warning that if the Schengen system falls, the euro will also fall. He insisted: "If the spirit of Schengen leaves us...'ll lose more than the Schengen Agreement. A single currency does not make sense if Schengen fails.’ The right has always shown great enthusiasm for the euro, and last summer one made it clear that the right still wants to introduce the euro in Norway. My question is: does the Council of State share the analysis with the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e833	I share the assessment that Schengen is under pressure, and if we fail to find solutions to address Schengen, the euro and the internal market – which is more important for Norway – will be under pressure. If we see stronger national border controls, it will have great economic effects. It will undermine some of what Europe needs most now, namely new competitiveness and new growth power in the face of a global competition that is getting sharper and sharper. So there are big things at stake here. Border control may be a necessary solution on a temporary basis, but there is no future solution for Europe to reintroduce permanent national border controls and, therefore, Schengen is so crucial. And what is needed to achieve Schengen is effective external border controls and cooperation between European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e843	A unanimous committee underlines that the northern regions are Norway's main area of foreign policy interest. However, the Workers' Party does not agree with the majority of the Committee that the government is pursuing offensive Northern Region policy. Unfortunately, it is the most word and little action. The draft budget cut the amount of a million. It's not a bet, it's a down-priority. I'm going to give the government parties right when they say that there has been a change of pace in the North Region policy since they took over, but it's unfortunately with negative signs. It is therefore striking that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his main post did not mention the northern regions in a single word. The working party will continue to focus strongly on the north and proposes, in its alternative budget, to strengthen the funding for the North Sea effort by 50 million. kr in relation to the agreement concluded. There are many who are concerned that Norway is beginning to lose its grip on defining and, not least, its ownership of what is happening in Norway’s main area of interest. In the media, we have recently been able to read that it is the Arctic Circle, the Arctic Conference of the North, that sets the agenda in the Arctic. It shall not be so – the ambition must be ‘Look to Norway’ as it was under the government of Stoltenberg. If the government believes anything about pursuing offensive north-eastern politics, and having ambitions about being a leading Arctic nation on the global arena, then the foreign minister and his colleagues in the government must show it both in word and in action. I therefore urge the Foreign Minister to listen to what my party leader and colleague Gahr Støre says, to win back the Northern Region initiative. That has to happen by keeping the initiative in the north, we have to keep working on building up infrastructure, he says. But most importantly, according to Gahr Støre, it's that we have to bet on the sea. Furthermore, he says that Norway can ‘set the agenda for a new and better international maritime research regime’. It's a very exciting and interesting play, and in that perspective, Svalbard should be an exciting arena for such a bet. Today is the day to remember him who gave the Arab spring a face – Mohamed Bouazizi, the vegetable dealer and the street salesman who lit the first fiance and who dramatically gave his life in the fight for others to get better. We all know that the fight he started has been difficult and challenging. What happens in Syria is perhaps the most cruel example of what it has cost of human life and other atrocities in the fight against authoritarian regimes in the region. In Tunisia, we see that the hope and belief in a better future has become visible. Many challenges remain – as the representative Nybakk stated in his speech – but the efforts of those who receive the Nobel Peace Prize today give hope and belief that Mohamed Bouazizi’s action has not been in vain. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Tunisian Quartet on a well-deserved price. We will once again be clear from this pulpit that we will follow up and implement the current long-term plan of defence, while at the same time strengthening the allocation under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. In line with the tense safety situation in Europe and the rest of the world, Norway must take its share of responsibility in NATO. It is particularly important at a time when many allies are reducing their defence budgets. We see that this year's defence budget is increasing by almost 10 p.m., as the Minister of Defence was about to say. She calls it a historical increase. Fair enough, but it is also a marked increase, well anchored in previous decisions on investments, among other things. New fighter aircraft and new fighter aircraft base. Efficiency is also important in defence, and in line with the current long-term plan, we see that 193.5 million are released in this year's budget. kr through efficiency – money that benefits the sector. It was just supposed to be missing. And if we look back, it's worth noting that the defense has taken out a combined, documented efficiency gain of over 40 billion. kr in the last few years. The result has contributed to a significant strengthening and modernisation of defence. Against this background, the Labour Party considers it unreasonable to impose further efficiency requirements on the defence through the efficiency and red tape reform. It must be a challenge for the Minister of Defence to see that this is happening — once again. What is very challenging about this kind of cut is that the funds released are taken out of the defence, and in reality there is a flat cut in the Ministry of Defence's budget area of 193 million. kr. This unfairness will be corrected by the Labour Party in its draft budget under Framework Area 8, where we propose an increase of 193 million. kr that can be used to strengthen our defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e875	We have had a decline in our total defence capabilities over many years, and a strengthening of the Defence Force will take time – but the government has begun to work to increase the operational capabilities of the Defence Force. The bet on the defense is the biggest since the last time we had a bourgeois government. The budget provides a priority for strengthening operational capability in selected areas, also beyond the long-term assumptions. We've been used to warriors playing out far from our borders. The last two years have shown that even distant wars are never far away. We've seen foreign warriors travel to Syria to fight for ISIL. We've seen others join terrorist movements in their European homelands. At the same time, the refugee crisis has clearly shown changes in global security challenges. The government is meeting these new safety challenges with a significant and necessary commitment to the E service, national safety authority and marine counter-terrorism combined with nearly 400 million. kr. This strengthens the ability of the defence sector to assist civil society and contribute to social security. The government presented – and the cooperation parties on the civil side – a budget with a significant and real strengthening of the defence’s overall budget by less than 49 billion. kr, which gives a budget increase of 9.4 pst. from 2015, and we will continue to increase the budget in the coming long-term plan to ensure increased defence capabilities for Norway. We make important investments to ensure relevant and modern military capabilities for the future: F-35 fighting aircraft with baseline CV 90 storm armored vehicle upgrades to HV We also take concrete action with a view to increasing presence and strengthening preparedness, as well as a clear commitment in the north areas: Permanent presence with a submarine in the north several hours of surveillance aircraft in the north areas increased activity and maintenance in the Maritime Defence Agency The Marine Hunter Command continued in permanent readiness to assist civil society with support of police and rescue helicopters and still reduced response time to helicopter support for the continuation of the increased number of sailing days from 2015 to the Coast Guard, and with frigate in the north continuation of increased exercise and training from 2015 for the Army and HV Among young people in Norway, there has been a positive change in recent years, where the youth now competes to serve in the Defence. It has worked well and systematically to raise the status and make the first-time service attractive – and 2016 is the start of a general duty of protection for girls as well. At the same time, the reform of competence with the development of a specialist body is well under way and continues to build up further in 2016. I would also like to stress the importance that the work of caring for our soldiers and our veterans before, during and after duty is being followed up with full force – and I am pleased that the government is continuing the special compensation scheme for personnel who have suffered mental stress in operations abroad. The right-wing believe that the defense today solves its mission in a very good way thanks to motivated, dedicated and competent personnel who give of themselves for our safety in service both at home and outside. Our servants in out-of-office operations deserve our support and gratitude. Finally, in the debates on the budgets in our areas, I would urge soberness and realism to achieve the best possible effect. You can quickly look blindly at past heart things and individual posts. An example is the Centre Party, which at its national meeting this year left the impression that the party would come up with proposals for investment in the billion-dollar class to achieve the 2pst target. Well, in their alternative budget, there were over 200 million. kr. The centre party promises billions, but comes with millions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e933	Then the representative Rannveig Kvifte Andresen, who gets the word out of the way to a short comment, is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e936	Thank you for letting me in. This concerns the proposal we submitted before today, proposal No. 2 to case No. 1, in which three words have been omitted by an incurrency, namely ‘or military material’. The proposal then reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to immediately stop the sale of weapons or military material to countries which commit serious human rights violations and abuses against their own population.’ SV believes that we must stop all exports of arms and military material to states in war, to undemocratic regimes or regimes that systematically undermine human rights. By adopting the proposal, we can respond to this. The relevant proposal shall have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e948	The representative, Mr Kvifte Andresen, then presented the amendments to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e951	I think it takes a long time for the additional number to arrive on Friday, to be forgotten. Cut for $4.2 billion. kr was a cut that narrowed my stomach like a fist. I spoke to someone who shed tears over the cut, not for himself, but because it was dramatic cut for the world's poorest. When I read about the device of the cuts, I just sat and shook my head. Here we, Norway, sat in a fantastic position, blessed with a fantastic wealth, and were to take 4.2 billion. kr from long-term assistance. To make a long and heated story short: I would like to thank good colleagues here in the Chamber for constructive talks, for important conversations and for a good result. We were able to get in $2.50. kr for long-term assistance, with clear arrangements against civil society, against climate, against agriculture and against research. Overall, this means that the 2016 aid budget has a clear focus on what we think is most important: safe assembly, prevention of child mortality, building public health systems and a clear education profile, as we say is job number one. We know that 250 million can't read and write in their 10-year-old age. Now, assistance is to be focused on training for even more people, and the quality of education is to be improved. Girls in particular will be allowed to be educated. The key to economic development — where I will place agriculture and food security as sub-titles — is also important for the cooperation parties. We know that 70-80 pst. of the poorest jobs in agriculture. Ensuring development and jobs there is important. Then there's also a clear concentration. After the conciliation, there is an even clearer and greater poverty orientation. More assistance must go to the poorest, especially to the south of the Sahara. I also ask that we should be able to feed even more, that even more of the aid can go to the poorest countries, and that a greater proportion of the funds go to the few countries we want to focus most on, i.e. more focus countries. Then it's also a tip on the channel. I am very aware that the UN's state-to-state assistance and assistance through civil society have different objectives, different effects and perhaps different tasks. They work in different ways. Something is professional, and like others have been involved here, is also some policy. In any case, I am pleased that we are strengthening assistance through civil society as strongly as we do, compared to the additional number, because I am sure that assistance through civil society reaches the poorest. That's who we know has the greatest effect of the aid. That's why I'm summarizing the fall: the government tried in many ways in 14 days to implement a reform of the aid. I would rather call for a big message, a broad debate on a reform, an update, of the aid at the time we are in – not only for refugees and that bit, but also the fact that the share of aid in the income of the countries has fallen. How we can use assistance better, how we can use the different channels better, or how we want to prioritise, how we can concentrate assistance better on both theme and country, and also how, according to the Christian People's Party's wishes, we can increase the number of focus countries, where we choose countries that are poor and need more, I want a debate on. Then I also call for a professional debate. Because it was absurd to read in particular the additional number. There is no reason for the cuts, it says only that the agreements entered into have to be broken. A technical debate on how assistance can be even better would have been a good idea to have a wide-ranging debate on. I would also like to remind you that the Committee's mission to the Department for a more detailed description of the various posts is important. At least when you're sitting and kissing, it's good to know what might happen. I want a bigger debate on that. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about ODA. It is allowed to take money from assistance and to spend on refugee expenditure in Norway. The question is: is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is In Sweden, they investigated the possibility of using 50–60 pst., Denmark has cut aid, etc. I'd rather look at Germany and the United Kingdom, which are protecting the aid, but it's actually lower than us on aid. What happens if all countries choose to take 30, 40, 50, 60 pst.? Then something happens with the long-term assistance. I want a government that at least in the debates that are going to be about changing the ODA Code, is willing to speak the world's poorest case, so that long-term assistance is not drastically cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e974	I would like to use my contribution to explain to the Greens the views of the Greens on the aid part of the budget that is being discussed here today. Norway has experienced a challenging harvest that has alerted new and more demanding times at work to balance the state budget, but it has also been demanding to balance our values, because in the autumn our values have really been tested. The one here in Norway is often referred to as the ‘asyl stream’, in fact, is that very many people have sought asylum in our country from the distress, hunger and war of their homeland. The Greens believe that the despair of these people has gone a long way in the government's focus on the increased arrivals of asylum from those who do not have the basis for residence. What was the refugee crisis has become Norway's refugee crisis during the fall, and it's a lot about rhetoric. It's a privilege to be able to help those who need it, but at the same time it means that we have to spend money and resources to receive them in a good way. At the same time, for several reasons, we need to focus on tough priorities in future budgets. But the tougher the priorities, the more important it is that priorities are smart and forward-looking, forward-looking, in that they are designed to deliver our key values as a society while helping to solve short-term challenges. It is then important that our priorities do not exacerbate the situation in other parts of the world where Norway has engaged, because we are part of a world, and we are likely to be more and more affected by crises in other parts of the world, whether there are conflicts, food shortages or serious disease spread. We therefore strongly disagree that the government has identified assistance as the main venue for the tough priorities and the big cuts. The government proposed to cut $4.2 billion. kr in the long-term aid to the rest of the world, and we have ended up with a majority in favour of a cut of 1.8 billion. kr in the budget agreement. The Greens are not against a going through how aid is used, and we are so clearly open that some funds can be used differently and more efficiently, but many of the cuts that are being made are good civil society projects that work, and there are huge local ringing effects when they are cut. Among other things, it was cut. in the fight for human rights, democracy and environmental knowledge. These are the means to contribute to safe conditions in which people have their history and their homes, and prevent people from being forced to flee, as are now very many do, among other things. From the Middle East. One shall not try to save the world through aid. An increasingly large part of Norway's role must take place in international fora, through the EU, through the UN, through the Schengen Agreement, on which we have been subject, but we must also work for fairer trade regimes and not least to ensure that our own wealth, through the State pension fund abroad, is not invested in activities that lead to more distress through destruction, climate change or conflict. I would also like to stress that we in the Greens recognise the efforts of the Left and the Christian People's Party to limit the cuts, and we would like to thank you for that, but also the budgetary agreement is dramatic for very many Norwegian aid projects. Only one or two years ago, it would have been quite unmistakable that a majority in the Grand Duchy adopts a budget where it was cut almost 2 billion. kr in the aid to the rest of the world. This year the government has unfortunately chosen the simplest and short-term way out in a budget squeeze and covered increased expenditure by cutting where we do not see the direct consequences of it as clearly because they are in another part of the world. Norway cannot continue to do so. We are living at a time when the world is becoming more and more integrated, and more and more of our main challenges need to be solved globally. If we are to avoid conflicts, if we are to solve the environmental challenges and challenges of migration, we in Norway must take some serious discussions outside our comfort zone and realize that being part of a world will require more of us, including in our state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e991	As the chairman of the committee said, there is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign and security policy, but it is striking to listen to this debate, where the main speakers from the government's partners here in the UK use most of their contributions to criticise the government's budgetary priorities, especially in the area of assistance. The Left’s Step Skei Grande even came with a warning when it came to the government’s wish to cut in the allocation of information and debate – ‘Don’t do it again’. — While the government’s spokespersons commend the government’s priorities in the original budget. Some strong policy direction is not going to be out of this. A premise of too much of the foreign policy debate in the last few years has been that the security policy situation in Europe has changed with Russia’s annexation of Crimea and interference in Ukraine – ‘a completely different security situation’, said the representative Øyvind Halleraker in his speech. This is true, and therefore Norway has also followed EU sanctions against Russia. But from the Labour Party, we have also stressed the importance of continuing to maintain dialogue and cooperation in the north, also because the northern regions are our main area of foreign policy interest. Voltage and problems in southern Europe will not be reduced if there is also tension in the north. On the contrary — in tense situations, it is important to maintain channels for dialogue and cooperation in areas of common interest: cooperation on resource management, search and rescue, the environment and, in particular, people-to-people cooperation. We can do this, and we should do this. I also believe that our allies understand the importance of and support. But sometimes the impression, especially from the Right-Speaker, is that this is kind of a little bit to fail our allies. No, this is not alone, as the representative of Greece warned against. In particular, you get the feeling that this government has an incomprehensible fear of not standing on good enough feet with the United States. We see it in how the government votes in the United Nations when the resolutions on the work of a world without nuclear weapons are to be voted on, a vision of the United States' own president hoisted up shortly after he joined. The United States is our most important ally, and good friends are to be taken care of. But taking care of good friends also means making sure they don't go wrong, because good friends and allies might do the same. Imagine if Tony Blair had gone over to President Bush and said, "Listen, my friend." You can't attack Iraq without a UN mandate in your back. You risk breaking international law. – Think of what problems we might have avoided if it had happened, and if the American president had listened to his good friend. I want to come back to my line to the Minister of Defense on AIM, where it became known in the class struggle on Wednesday that the government is not only planning to convert the workshop into a limited liability company, but also to sell it. I agree with the Council of State, who said in reply to me that it might be reasonable to find an industrial partner to develop the company. But it's something other than selling, and I can't spare myself the concern that there's a certain desire here to get out of making the necessary capital or guarantees to compete for this maintenance contract. I assume that the government does not intend to stand up so that this company can risk going on foreign or private hands, which can later find ways to move it out of Norway. Let me just repeat and underline the importance that we still support the process in the Balkans, and that we find it unfortunate that there are as large cuts as they are put into the agreement between the government and cooperation parties, and point out that we have 225 million in our budget. kr to the ODA-approved countries in the Balkans – I think I would have done well to support developments there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1009	I want to talk about European policy, and more specifically about EEA funds, in this budget debate. The concrete background for this is the somewhat turbulent comment of the Central Party in the budgetary position on this matter. Firstly, the EEA funds cannot be seen as a membership quota, but as our contribution to economic, social and cultural development in the most challenging part of Europe. A cohesion between east and west, north and south is one of the purposes of the internal market. Through the EEA, Norway is involved in the internal market, so it is natural that we also contribute financially to this. No country is paying a quota to be in this market. All EU and EEA countries are involved in the internal market, and then financial contributions from those who are able to do so have to go to countries that need development, both economically, socially and culturally. Secondly, the experience of how these funds have been used is good. It has provided development and improvements in the areas supported. Nevertheless, the system is not perfect, and it is healthy that questions are asked about whether the money is reaching, and whether the good intention leads to a positive development for the people living in the countries that receive support. The national audit has looked at this for the period 2004–09, i.e. how it worked for approx. 10 years ago. The study concludes that the project funds went largely to what they were supposed to do. I am pleased that since then there has also been a development and innovation in how to work, and that it is constantly working to improve the use of funds. In addition, I have to admit that I find it somewhat sought after and almost populist to compare the use of EEA funds with the assistance of Sierra Leone, as stated in the comments of the Centre Party. In this case, such a comparison should be made with everything else that we grant money to, both here and in other budgets, including, for example, other subsidies on production. Having said that, I would like to stress that I am critical of the fact that today’s Storting will grant less assistance outside the area than we have done in the past. On the other hand, the direct link, as formulated, in order to argue against supporting projects in Eastern Europe, appears strange – as the Central Party describes it. In addition, they choose to promote curious cultural and environmental projects in an attempt to support the use of EEA funds in a very strange way. It's e.g. not a word about that 10 pst. of the relevant programmes in Romania and Bulgaria to improve the situation of the space people. We are talking about education, jobs, health and housing, which are very important measures for a very vulnerable group in Europe. I also believe that support for civil society is often underestimated as a contribution to development in a country. A well-functioning justice sector, measures to ensure cultural security and identity, and assistance to build up organisations can be decisive for the success of a country's development over time. Then it is close to pointing to our own country in the time between 1814 and the Union resolution. The organisations, institutions and much of what we know in Norway today were just in the 1800s. It also applies to our cultural and national identity. In other words, there are good reasons to contribute financially to developing communities in our neighbours. It is good for those people who live there, it is good for Europe, and then it will be good for Norway too. I am therefore pleased that there is broad support in the Storting for the way in which we use these funds, despite the objections of the Center Party. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment that today's news as the State Council Helgesen came to the conclusion that restoring the grant to Hungary is positive, especially when it comes to the fact that Hungary is now working better in terms of civil rights. It shows that these means give us the power to influence a development in a very positive direction, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1028	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1031	Norway was at an early stage with its own strategy for the north, and we have led the development in the north. Today is 60 pst. by the population of the earth represented by the Arctic Council and the participants have become more and more ambitious. In such a situation, it is even more important than keeping the initiative for leadership in the north. That's why the question is now: Is Norway as forward-looking and as visionary as we should be? The answer to that is unfortunately no. It may seem that this government believes that the Northern Region bet of the previous government was so good that they continue it largely unchanged. That's fine, but we've gone from north-area bet to north-area extension, and that's not good enough. What is missing is the new ideas, projects and initiatives that lead. You can talk blue – as the positioning parties do – about individual items in the budget. There are some increases and some cuts, but the big picture is that new initiatives are missing, for example: in the case of climate, how the Arctic could become an exhibition window for cross-border solutions. There are shortcomings in terms of management, seafood and the supply industry for an emerging international aquaculture industry. New initiatives are required in the areas of monitoring, satellite monitoring and satellite capacity. And more knowledge is needed. There's still the hub in the north zone bet. Viewed against this curtain, the government's north-area bet is not so impressive. We who are engaged in the northern regions have been waiting for the new measures for two years, and we are still waiting. So far, the government has not seized the chance – neither in the government statements, persuasion debates, state budgets, revised national budgets, statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister’s new year, the parties’ national meetings or the status report on the northern regions were the major new initiative. In today's debate, no government councils choose to specifically lift the northern regions. If there is to be truth in the fact that the northern regions are our main foreign policy area, the government must simply show more interest in policy and in new initiatives than it is doing today. When more and more players report seriously in the north, we need to be on the verge of new measures, so that we keep our leadership in check. Now we're slowing down in the field. It's unfortunate -- it's not okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1044	Assistance is a topic that addresses us to a greater and greater extent. In a way, this is regrettable, because the best thing is that everyone can handle themselves. On the other hand, it is satisfactory to record that this government's means of assistance and investment are being exceeded by previous governments. For the Right, it is always important to look at the systems, see if they are functional, see if the assistance gives the intended effect. In my understanding, this has now become a continuous process in the departments. Assistance is diverse, from immediate emergency aid to longer-term projects. Education is fundamental to development, job creation and a lasting path out of poverty. The fact that the government will double the efforts for education of children and young people in countries characterised by extreme poverty, crisis and conflict is right-wing proud of. It will be especially important for us to contribute to more girls being educated. The summit on education for development in Oslo in July was a great success. Norway has become a visible driver in order for other countries also to put education higher on the agenda. We are pleased to be able to take global leadership in the fields of funding education, education, quality and learning of girls, and training in crisis and conflict. The fact that the UN Secretary-General has appointed our Prime Minister as a leader and a driver to achieve the Millennium Poverty Reduction Goals is a visible evidence of this. Another important and fundamental value is good health. The reinforced investment continues Norway’s global leadership role. The right is pleased that the government is strengthening this work, with emphasis on women, children and young people and on the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. We see that increased health spending as well as education provide opportunities for girls and young women. We see that education and access to sexual education and access to prevention provide lower mortality rates for children and mothers. Industry development is a prerequisite for job creation and development. Having a job is fundamental, the opposite is destructive. Norfund is our main bilateral instrument, and it is invested in areas where assistance is important to trigger private investment. It is also important that, while Norfund is involved in the large-scale projects with the big money, small and medium-sized projects and start-ups should not be forgotten, those operating between microfinance and Norfund. A not insignificant number of jobs are created there. It is therefore important that smaller relief organisations, such as: The Partnership for Change, Acumen and others is supported in parallel. It will ensure that social investment contributes to the achievement of government assistance objectives, namely the creation of sustainable jobs. The government has proposed a capital injection of 1500 million to Norfund. kr. This represents a further strengthening of the increase and shows that even in a tough budgetary situation, the government prioritises job creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1059	Monday this week – 7 December – Norway voted against four major UN resolutions on the humanitarian consequences and disarmament of nuclear weapons. With that vote, the government put two strands under its political shift in nuclear policy in Norway – a shift in lines that does not have the support of the majority in Stortinget. The government has spent a lot of time making opposition questions the big problem. Attack is, as you know, the best defense. However, when one of the UN votes against important proposals, and when organisations working for disarmament are cut off, it is timely that the Stortinget asks – and gets answers. I therefore want to use this opportunity to encourage the government parties to respond to the criticism of the Government's political shift. In order to deepen: the shift of lines is clearly reflected in the explanations of vote given by Norway at the UN General Assembly. There, the government expresses its negative opinion on the value of discussions on bans and says that such a process will ‘polarise the international community’ and ‘undermine the Non-proliferation Agreement’. The government went on to say that a ‘should refrain from encouraging countries in general to explore opportunities and support measures to identify, develop and negotiate legally binding measures for nuclear disarmament’. Norway has gone from being a driving force in the humanitarian initiative to actively de motivating other countries and weakening the growing political base of negotiations for a ban. The goal of the Workers' Party is a world without nuclear weapons. It is difficult to imagine that you can get there without a legally binding instrument. But far more important than exactly how this legal instrument should be, is the process ahead, how we can mobilise strongly enough, politically, to overcome the resistance we know will come. If we had been in government, we would still have the old line. Firstly, it would be in the best interests of both national and global security, and secondly, it would be in line with Norway's obligations under the Non-Proliferation Agreement, and thirdly, we believe it is compatible with our NATO membership. The red-green government ensured that Norway, as a NATO country, contributed to the meeting, by taking the lead in an initiative that went across regions and political constellations. The government is now contributing to polarization by doing this revolution. I would remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the bulk of the population at the latest in our underlined that: ‘Norway must play an active role in international efforts to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and work for a ban on such weapons in the long term’. In the comments on the State budget, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Senterpartiet and SV write that a «foresees that the government follows up majority remarks from the Stortinget». I hope the Foreign Minister uses this opportunity to elaborate on how he will do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1091	There is no doubt that the government is taking the new security policy situation very seriously. As a number of have been the subject of previous speeches in the debate – and which cannot be emphasised strongly enough – it is now, after many years of reducing defence, imperative to ensure our sovereignty by strengthening the defence of the country, territorial waters and the northern regions and giving priority to increased operational capability in the short and long term. The government has therefore made the defence of budget wins and secured the largest increase in the defence budget in a long time. Following-up to the acquisition of fighter aircraft and the fighter aircraft base is the main priority and is responsible for the bulk of the increase in appropriations. The old defence bastion Trondelag once again emerges as one of the most remote centres of gravity in the Norwegian defence. It's reinforced by the upgrade of the U.S. pre-storers. The acquisition of new base-solution fighter aircraft continues. The government proposes to grant $8.6 billion. SEK in 2016 including SEK 1.1 billion. kr in the offsetting of the payment from 2015 to 2016. It is almost a doubling of the appropriations from the 2015 budget. The Storting has already given the order authorisation for a total of 22 F-35 fighter aircraft for delivery in the period 2015–2019. The draft budget provides for the acquisition of six more aeroplanes with scheduled delivery in 2020. The government is also planning to spend about 1.5 billion. kr to continue on-going investment projects in the Defence Property, Construction and Construction of Trøndelag in 2016. The funds will mainly be used for projects on the fighter base at the main Örland airfield. The largest individual projects that will continue in 2016 are maintenance buildings, squadron buildings and, in addition, property redemption. In addition, the 2016 budget proposes the launch of two major new projects in Ørland, namely the extension of the runway and the establishment of new crew seduction. With the deployment and new material and the development of installations, maintenance and service needs are also met. I am pleased that the government is positive in its approach to cooperating with the business community in the region on supplies on the maintenance side. Here there are great opportunities for companies that meet quality requirements and that have the peak competence of the defence that a demanding customer provides for cooperation. So there's a lot of exciting opportunities in the whole country, even in a region where the defense has always been strong, not least in disintegration and in the consciousness of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1108	The representative Henriksen spoke down in large words the government's north-eastern policy. To get a little busy with realism, I recommend the representative to read the business cycle barometer for North Norway as well as my article earlier today. The presence in the north is essential for understanding and addressing climate challenges. Therefore, the government’s priority of increasing national and international research on climate and environment in these areas is important for better resource use and environmental management. In view of the challenging situation of the Great Norse Spitsbergen Kulkkompani, the government's allocation for 2016 will contribute to employment, growth and development on Svalbard by, inter alia, rehabilitation of the energy plant in Longyearbyen, expansion of the New Ålesund observatory and reinforced emergency services for the employed person. Another important area is the investment of 15 million. kr for quality assurance and further development of the plans for new port infrastructure in Longyearbyen. An increased port capacity allows the reception of larger ships that can generate growth into more industries, including the tourism industry. The support of the Minister of Fisheries for the proposal to establish Svalbard fishing facilities is also an important input into increased activity by exploiting the increasing fishing resources around Svalbard. It is important to look at new industries when there are now major challenges to coal production. As we all know, developments in Russia have gone in a disturbing direction in recent years. At the same time, it has always been important for Norway to maintain a good neighbourhood. The government has had a conscious relationship with this. We will continue to maintain our good cooperation in fisheries management, search and rescue, people-to-people cooperation, environmental management and nuclear safety, health, research and education – to mention some areas. Finally, I would like to point out that it is a little surprising that the Workers' Party at the representatives Simensen and Henriksen now thinks there is too little investment in the northern areas. There are different ways of counting up to the North Region Initiative, but the Ministry's own figures are clear: this government's investment amounts to about 2.7 billion. SEK for 2016, against SEK 1.9 billion. kr in the last budget of the red-green government. I'll let the numbers speak for themselves. I would also like to mention that the Labour Party representative, Jonas Gahr Støre, did not mention the northern regions in his contribution. Then I wonder if the representative Simensen believes that he does not care about Northern Region bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1125	At that time, 12 o'clock has passed, and the Stortinget is now interrupting the meeting so that the representatives can participate in the Nobel Peace Prize. The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 15.30 – the first speaker is Liv Signe Navarsete. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30. President: Mr Olemic Thommes
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1138	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 1-5 on Agenda No 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1141	Earlier today, the representative Marianne Marthinsen was provoked by comments from the Central Party on the EEA funds in the vote. The initiation of the EEA Agreement provides for the creation of the EEA Agreement on the basis of equality, reciprocity and a comprehensive balance of advantages, rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties. Norway’s increasing expenditure on EEA funds and EFTA bodies is not characterised by such a balance sheet. There are few – probably none – examples of other trade agreements where one party is pressured to pay money to another party for the parties to buy and sell goods and services to each other. The fact that a party has to pay for reciprocal market access violates the principle of the EEA Agreement on reciprocity and the balance of rights and obligations. Norway can tackle poverty more effectively in ways other than by giving concessions to EEA funds. The European Communication questions whether and, if so, to what extent it considers the objective of living conditions to be equalisation. The 2013 report of the National Audit Office states that it is uncertain to what extent it can be demonstrated that the Norwegian EEA funds have contributed to social and economic cohesion. Over the last few years, the EEA funds have benefited from a wide range of different — partly curious — objectives. Examples of the use of funds range from the refurbishment of landmarks in Krakow Square, maritime museum in Gdansk, bat project in Romania and art club in Greece. Fortunately, the government has said that a greater part of it is now to be used to ensure better conditions for refugees coming to Europe. It's actually a reasonable use of these resources. The government proposed that the budget should be substantially cut in Norwegian aid permits and in the additional notification. The government's government proposed that cuts be made in the agreements already concluded, and it was paradoxically pointed out that while the government on the one hand advocates extensive cuts in Norwegian aid to the poorest, no such steps are made in relation to the EEA funds. There is an appointment for increased permissions in the same time period, actually. Norway’s payment to EEA funds is out of proportion to developments in Norwegian aid permits, and it must be allowed to point out in a cancellation. It is known that one has a pool of pots, and based on the fact that EEA funds are going to improve living conditions and raise living standards, it is not irrelevant to draw such comparisons. Norwegian authorities have always clarified that Norway does not have a formal obligation to continue the scheme with EEA funds, and we have no obligation other than to contribute, in the same way that Norway wants to contribute to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1154	What made me take the floor again was the speech by the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, who wanted to welcome a broader and more thorough debate on aid policy in a new era, preferably with a big message as a basis. It's not a bad idea. The government has turned on a concentration of land, which has been right-winged throughout the last period, and now supported by Ropstad. It's easy to agree with that, given the idea that concentration can give more effect where we contribute. At the same time, we face problems quickly because, in countries that then leave the focus group, we have had assistance covering important areas – Latin America is an example; the Balkans is another – and good governance and development of civil society are important pieces in getting democracy to stick. But that is not an argument against debate, on the contrary, it is an argument for debate. Another aspect is industrial development and employment. In the 1980s, when we called for Norwegian business to be included in development policy, there was strong criticism. Business and development assistance should be kept separate. This is still hanging in the mind of many people. We hear a lot of criticism of Norfund's investments in the budgetary hearings of civil society, but energy supply is also a prerequisite for development. Think of what the hydropower meant for the development of Norway in the 1900s! But under that criticism there is actually a drag on the budget money. Regardless of the size of the aid budget, there will always be a need for more education, health, climate, agriculture, etc. When the Foreign Affairs Committee was in China in the previous period, in 2010 – it was a little earlier in the autumn than at this time, to say the same – we met a professor of state science, and he said that China will give the world two things: one is a new model of democracy, and the other is a new model of development – the assistance that you run with does not work. It is a crossroads of thought that the countries that have had the strongest economic development are countries that have not grown on the basis of development aid but on the basis of their own resources, large investments and trade. These are experiences that we must also have with us in the debate on development policy, adapted a new era, along with a further development of what we are already doing, oil for development, fish for development, tax for development, i.e. export our good experiences that have contributed to development. If we could now agree in this room that 1 pst. of GNI is the foundation of our scale of development assistance, as it has become in the United Kingdom at 0.7 p.m., I think it will also be easier to concentrate the debate on content and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1170	The best speeches in this budget debate we heard right in Oslo City Hall – brave voices that reminded us of how democracy is created. For democracy, stability and peace, there is something quite different than the absence of a dictator or extreme groups. That's the brutal lesson of the Arab Spring. In Libya they managed to get rid of Gaddafi, but today they're in total disintegration. Tunisia is the exception where nothing has gone wrong, but nothing has happened by itself. It's because they have had a strong civil society and popular movements that have taken responsibility. Civil society is not something you can be pushed into, it's something you have to create yourself. But Norway and other countries can join in and give good advice, contribute with people and with economics. It is effective and good assistance. It was the Church and the trade movement that stood in front of the work against apartheid and with the introduction of democracy in South Africa, among other things with the support of the Norwegian trade union movement and the Church. It was the trade movement in South America that got military dictatorships to become progressive democracies. So in Tunisia, there was the trade union movement with other organizations that initiated the prize we just attended. It is a paradox that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs had had had an impact on his budget, we would have gone straight from paving the City Hall to coming to the Stortinget and cutting over 1 billion. to civil society. I am pleased that all the parties in opposition to the Right and the Advance Party have rejected this great cut, and that the government today does not get a say in its proposal. However, I am surprised that the budgetary agreement has brought about a new cut that affects peace and reconciliation. There is something this big business should not be on today. We have tough situations in many countries in the world. I'm afraid we're spending too much time discussing just where it really burns, and not all the places where it can go wrong. To combat extremism, refugee flows and war, we cannot allow ourselves to look only at areas that are not very bad. We also need to look at all the areas that remain in need of our support, such as Tunisia and Lebanon – vulnerable countries in the Arab part of the world – as the Balkans, which are in our part of the world, and which in these days face tough times. The news cameras aren't there. It doesn't necessarily make a lot of sense in the paper to support it, but it's nevertheless one of the most important things we can do to help create a safer and fairer world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1183	I take the floor because in the course of the debate I have recorded that there are some representatives from the Workers' Party who have been so unfortunate to trample on a sore point for the Right Government Party, namely the party's Northern Territory bet. Obviously, it hurt. I'm not going to use expressions that we northerners use in such situations, but I'm going to record that Alexandrova's representative felt both the drawer and the vonbrotten after our observation. When the Foreign Minister himself was allowed to say something about this area of interest in his post, there is reason to ask if the government really believes what they say and writes about the northern regions. And it is absolutely worth a comment from this pulpit. The representative, Alexandrova, referred to the cyclical barometer as proof that there is a great deal of positive in the north, and we agree with that, but it does not happen because – despite – the government's North Region effort. It is feared that the government’s industrial policy in several areas could negatively affect this positive development. In this context, I could mention a strong reduction in regional development funds and the airline fee, but I should not. Our response to those who express that little is happening in the north under this government is that the North Region bet is fortunately so well anchored by the government of Stoltenberg that it will survive a few years with the Right-Fremskrit party government. What we see is that the overview the representative of Alexandrova refers to in his statement is tasteful of measures adopted by the Red-Green Government during his period. So if we add them up, the numbers are going to be large. When we ask the Ministry of Finance what measures are hiding behind the figures the representative refers to, we find measures for 2016 worth 500 million. kr, which is a continuation of previous year’s budgets. But the sum of new measures is probably 296 million. kr, where one of the measures is money to finance the Copernicus Earth observation programme for well over 138 million. kr, a measure which was, by the way, adopted against the votes of the government in this Chamber. Then it should be said that all the other new measures listed are good measures. In summary, I am determined that we have our words in mind, that is, our claims that the government has a northern basin that still works and needs treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1200	The representative, Tvedt Solberg, tries – as others from the Workers' Party have done, if not in this debate – to create a picture that the government has turned around in the question of nuclear weapons. That's not true. Norway plays an active driving role in getting closer to the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. I miss the party leadership, if they will clarify how a Labour Party government would have voted in the resolution at the recent UN General Assembly. I have not received an answer to my question about whether the Workers' Party would be in favour of a ban on nuclear weapons, in which case Norway would be the only NATO country. I don't think a labor party government would have done that. Norway committed itself by decision in 2010 and confirmed at the summit both in 2012 and 2014 to work for a world without nuclear weapons. But as long as these weapons exist, NATO will also be a nuclear alliance. It is a policy supported and promoted by the red-green government. Today’s government of course ends up with the fact-based and humanitarian disarmament option behind the previous government. It's not a line break, it's a continuation of Norwegian policy. However, Austria, together with Mexico and South Africa, has shifted the humanitarian initiative to another and polarising track. The aim is now international negotiations to ban nuclear weapons. This made it impossible for all NATO countries to support the package of resolutions promoted by these three countries during the UN General Assembly. The Labour Party has also been unclear as to how to assess this change in the proposal for the humanitarian initiative, which we have both supported in the past, but which is now incorporated into a whole to ban nuclear weapons. In that case, the Workers' Party has turned around, if it is right, as the representative Tvedt Solberg says, that one is now opening up to support resolutions that constitute a package under which a ban on nuclear weapons is under. The Government conducts a responsible security policy. Our solidarity lies with our allies. It is particularly important in the current security policy situation. We can't create a millimeter of wedge between our allies and us. In any case, this government will not contribute to it. Nor is it true that Norway did not support important resolutions on disarmament. Norway voted in favour of 11 resolutions on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation in the UN. One of these emphasises the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons, and also raises the humanitarian dimension. I have recorded that leading workers' parties say that they do not want unilateral disarmament from NATO, but a balanced and reciprocal disarmament from the nuclear powers. So that's where we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1217	I really thought I would take the floor on something else, but after the last article I will almost ask the Labour Party if they feel comfortable being taken to income for this. The left is going to stand for a line that's about us making it very clear that we should fight for disarmament in the world. We should fight against nuclear weapons, and we should particularly support the humanitarian initiatives that are important for disarmament and disarmament policy. We perceive that the government has made a change, a shift that the left does not support. Then they ask who else is creating the majority that the government claims to have in that case. But that's not what I was really thinking of taking the word for. I thought I would take the floor in connection with a proposal that Mr SV has made in the Chamber, and as I see it is a little sloppy, comes up with this matter and in the Chamber – that you did not think of it before, once you have had the thorough budgetary procedure we have had. The left agrees with all the intentions of the proposal, but we have regular decisions in the Stortinget where we make legislation on arms sales. Then we also established these principles, so I think it is very strange that this should be out of the way and outside of the matters we have, as long as SV is also represented in the committee and could have promoted it in the context of the matters we are dealing with. I don't think it's natural to vote for this now, but it shows that all of these principles are for us and support us. That's why we think it's stupid that they're being promoted like that, because then it seems like we're not for anything we're for. But we're going to deal with it when the issues related to export come and are going to be dealt with in the usual annual rhythm, but this is the big deal where we deal with arms exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1228	The representative, Regina Alexandrova, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1231	I think that when you talk about the Northern Region policy, you have to be a little sober about the realism that lies in the growth that is in North Norway. And the Workers' Party is talking down the foreign minister for not commenting on the northern areas in his speech today and saying that he doesn't care about the Northern Region policy, while their own leader has been standing on the same platform today, nor was he talking about the Northern Region policy. I think it's important that we talk about the growth that's in North Norway, as the cyclical barometer clearly shows. It shows willingness to invest, and it shows optimism. For North Norway, seafood, commodity-based industry and tourism are the main industries. These are industries in growth, and it is with good organization by this government with this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1236	In the question of nuclear weapons, this government is in the minority of this room. The majority want more offensive work – in the long term working for a world free of nuclear weapons confirmed by an international ban. It is the government that has prerogatives in foreign policy and makes day-to-day decisions in the UN and in other international organisations. I do not want to see a situation in which the Stortinget decides which resolutions to vote for, which visits to organise – it must be up to the government to decide. So I don't want a detailed management in that direction. I was quite clear in my advice to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that was to vote for one of these resolutions – not the one that mentioned the ban, although the majority in this Chamber also wants a long-term work for an international ban, but a resolution that was somewhat more non-binding, but that went in support of the humanitarian initiative. I was challenged by Halleraker. What would the Workers' Party vote if we were in government? I'm going to be careful to say it for sure, precisely because the government always has full knowledge of what they should vote, what alliances they have and other questions that must be up to the government to decide. That's why I've been quite conscious in the way I've formulated myself, that this is a recommendation from my side. I think it is most critical that the humanitarian initiative was not expressed when the United Nations took its position on these various resolutions. If it was such that they would not be voted on, then Norway should put forward a proposal for a different resolution, which showed that there were initiatives in this work. But when I hear the representative Halleraker and the offensive attitude he has, on a minority in this room, I feel quite certain that the government needs further guidance on the issue of nuclear weapons and how it should be designed. It is the government that has prerogatives, but it must be anchored in the Storting. That is why I look forward to the treatment of global security flashing messages. We can find out some formulations there that give the government direction in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1247	I'm going to be relatively short. This is the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, which is about asking the government to stop immediately the sale of weapons or military material to countries that commit gross human rights violations, etc. I am a little surprised that this proposal is presented in this budget debate, and I would like to refer to what the representative, Mrs Grande, also said, that in the Foreign Affairs Committee there is now a big message – Report. St. 8 - which is the annual export control message for exports of defence equipment. If such a proposal were to be made, or if the issue of strengthening the requirement to export defence equipment in the case of human rights violations, in the case of violations against its own population, or civil war, etc., in addition to what the Storting has done in the past, it must almost be done in the treatment of Report. Section 8 which is to be consulted just over New Year, and for which a time and work plan has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1252	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1255	I have two short comments. The first one goes on a ban on nuclear weapons. Today's debate shows that the government does not have the bulk of the money in its view, and I hope that a person will think through it and change the course a little. The humanitarian initiative is off the agenda. It's sad, and I want to agree with the leader of the committee, Anniken Huitfeldt, who said that one must find a direction to the further work. The second comment refers to the proposal that has been distributed, from SV. The centre party won't vote for it either. I am the case spokesperson for Meldning. St. 8 for 2015-2016, on export controls, and I believe that the discussion that is part of the proposal that has been submitted must be part of the process of Storing Message. So we don't want to support it today, even if we agree on the content and the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1262	I just took the word to clarify, so no one can suspect me not to be interested in some areas as I didn't talk about it in my previous five-minute post. I didn't say anything about defense, but I'm the strongest follower of lifting the Norwegian defense. I have not said anything about all the warnings that the EU is about to break up, but I am deeply concerned about the situation in the EU. I think it is interesting that the Workers' Party is very concerned because our foreign minister and others have not paid more attention to the north. That is very interesting, and I also note that some representatives from the Workers' Party believe that the measures that are there now, from the government, it is the Workers' Party that has designed. With all due respect, the red-greens provided a budget corresponding to approx. 1,96 B.C.E. kr. This government has put in place initially, $2.9 billion. NOK, but after the additional proposition came, we're down to 2.69 billion. kr. I'm from the Forest in the Nord-Trøndelag, but then I can figure out that here there's a difference of 0.7 billion. NOK 700 million. kr. And I am not familiar with the Workers' Party or anyone else who has been in contact with the government to help raise this budget by 700 million. kr, so it may not be possible for the Workers' Party measures contained in this proposal. I would also like to refer to page 25 of the setting, under chapter 118, North-area measures with worse – and more. [[muttering in the hall]] But let me quote from page 25 in the setting, because it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party, supports the government’s offensive north-eastern policy which will ensure a clear national presence, sustainable management of natural resources, strengthening environmental protection, search and rescue, the development of infrastructure and the preservation of Norwegian interests.’» So this is not going to be part of the working party, they were against it in the setting, and then you're here to say that you want to bet more than the government. You have to hear a lot! But I think that the offensive and positive signals we now get from the northern regions and from all over North Norway, they want us to see more of, just this government gets peace and quiet to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1281	It was a precursor to a light atmosphere here. However, I would just like to make a few comments on some of the things that have emerged in the debate. It is quite right, as the representative Kåre Simensen says, that we have introduced a so-called red tape and efficiency reform throughout the government. It applies not only to the Ministry of Defence and Defence, it applies to all departments. Much of its purpose is to release funds that may be used for priority areas. In the 2016 budget, the defense has certainly been one of the priority areas, so we have also recovered from the pot of money lying there. So I would also say – as the representative Simensen also said – that what we have done in the case of fighter planes, 3.8 billion. kr in the year, is a notified increase. You might say that, but I can promise the representative Simensen that finding – with which he is certainly well acquainted – in a budget of 3.8 billion. kr that could otherwise have been used for transportation or higher education, requires a conscious priority from the government, and we have chosen to do so. As far as the north is concerned, I think it is important to stress – because there has not been so much progress in the debate – the perspective that although we have suspended our bilateral military cooperation with Russia, we maintain it in some areas, both practical and pragmatic: coastguard, border guard, search and rescue, incident that the Sea agreements. We participated in – together with the seven other Arctic coastal states – establishing the Arctic Coast Guard Forum on 30 October of this year, including Norway and Russia. We also have an open line between the Defence Operational Headquarters and the North Fleet. We do that precisely because we want to cooperate in those areas where it is important for people's security, where it is important for a mutual interest we have. In addition, we choose to prioritize the operational activity in the north. We prioritize presence by submarine. We've twisted a lot of the operative activity in the defense northwards. We're going to have more and more moves with MPA. We have a coastguard to give priority to sailing in the north. We are strengthening the intelligence service significantly, which is of great importance to the northern regions. All these are actions that together contribute to a very strong North-South profile in the defence budget. We believe that this is important, because it serves our interests in a good way. There's a new security policy situation, that's a change, that we have to take into account what we're doing. In the budget, we have promoted a number of efforts on defence. It is a significant and real increase. Still, there are challenges – and I've never hidden that from you. The measures promoted after the draft budget was presented in October, including increased efficiency requirements and concrete reductions, will, of course, have consequences. These are things that we follow throughout the financial year. This may include, inter alia: related to exchange rates — which are challenging for time — and maintenance. I have been aware that the defence sector needs both a re-prioritisation of resources and more resources. We are facing major, important and difficult choices in the long-term plan presented in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1298	I'm just going to say a few words about SV's proposal to stop the sale of weapons to ‘countries that commit gross human rights violations and abuses against their own people’. A little humorous point is that for those who commit a little bit less serious human rights violations, it's okay. It is not that Norway sells weapons to countries that commit serious human rights violations. We sell defense equipment. And of the countries that you think have these gross fractures, I guess it's Saudi Arabia that's the country you're most concerned about, where it was 2.4 million. kr last year – of course a annoying and large number. But what you're exporting is what's called Category B material. It is everything from helmets to sanitary equipment for some components. That's the kind of thing you export – that's what goes under the defence material category. When you make a proposal, you first have to think about what you're talking about, which countries you're talking about, you have to do it in general, and what is the consequence of what you're proposing. The party SV has really gone in and looked at: what will the consequence be of what they're doing? What will the consequences be for our allies? Cooperation projects could be iced up. Many jobs are lost. What engineering skills are disappearing? What about the cooperation against the FFI? Have they gone into all these details before they found this sentence – in hui and haste? Or is it jump and jump policy, which is really just to show a political point, which is formulated in a weak way, which is not correct, and which also does not agree with what we are actually exporting? Your score has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1311	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1314	This is for the chairman of the committee: I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for an honest answer. She has respect for the roles of government and greatness in such matters as this United Nations vote. Maybe there's just reason we don't know here in the house, which is the basis for the vote that was made. For me, it is that a long-term ban will only be possible after mutually irreversible and verifiable disarmament. Developing credible verification mechanisms for this purpose is thus a prerequisite – as I see it – for a world without nuclear weapons. It is also NATO's declared strategy, and it is a strategy we have been with the Labour Party for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1321	The representative, Marit Nybakk, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1324	Just a brief comment to the representative Sandberg: When the Workers' Party is not in a comment that supports the government's offensive north-eastern policy, it is of course because we believe that the government's north-eastern policy is erased is not offensive. That's the whole point that we're not in the comment. We also show that the government and the cooperation parties have adjusted their bet in the northern areas of the adjustment. We call for a stronger priority of the Northern Region policy on the part of the government and propose an additional allocation. So it could have been tempting – but the note now is short – to repeat what has been said earlier today by several of the Workers' Party's speakers about relations with Russia and the need for dialogue in the northern regions to maintain and strengthen the cooperation that is, after all, across the border between Norway and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1333	I think it has been a good debate, which shows the complexity of the foreign and security policy challenges we are facing. Only in the autumn have we had to deal with a wave of migration in Europe that has also reached Norway to a greater extent. Important compromises have been reached in the Storting around this, but there is no doubt that in the future we will also need to focus even more of our policies on addressing both vulnerable states and security challenges in our neighbourhood that are moving into Europe. It's very serious about this. It is also the case that terrorism, the ISIL terrorist organisation and other extremists are no longer just a problem for the areas in which they operate, for example. Syria and Iraq. This is something we also need to deal with in our part of the world. What I notice during the debate here is that there is an increasing focus on this with vulnerable states and conflict areas and how we should be able to enter at an earlier stage and prevent states from collapsing, as we are now experiencing in Syria. Syria was an intermediate country five years ago. Today it is the pure humanitarian disaster. If that war now just continues to escalate, there are 18 million acids left inside Syria. It's four million who have fled so far. There's almost no drinking water left, so the conditions are broken. There's almost no medicine left, and there's almost no food left. How are we going to prevent new countries from coming into that kind of situation? In the context of the enlargement message that will be presented for the next autumn on the overall foreign and security policy at a time of other foreign policy challenges, this with vulnerable countries and how we can also use more of our aid policy to prevent collapse will be an important element. I think there have been good input on aid policy priorities. I believe that even in a difficult situation where we had to increase the re-priorities of the aid budget to deal with refugees and asylum seekers who have come to Norway, we managed to maintain a budget – if you keep that out of it – where Norway is still, after Luxembourg, the country in the world that spends the most dollars per capita for assistance. With the additions that have now been made to the good budgetary agreement, we are once again at the top of the world, and we should be. It's adapted to the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1344	I have registered that SV is unlikely to receive any particular support for our proposal today, but I have also noticed that several parties have said that they support the principles and will come back to it in the export notification. That's also going to happen. I also have a comment to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, because I have been up and corrected the proposal, precisely because it only said ‘weapon’ initially. The proposal now states ‘weapon or military material’. So I don't want to go into a polemic debate now about how serious the human rights violations are going to be. I suppose you understand the intention of the proposal, and Tybring-Gjedde pointed out an obvious candidate, namely Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1353	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1367	Norway has wanted to be one of the founders of the Asian Investment Bank and signed the agreement establishing it in Beijing on 29 June 2015 together with 49 other countries. The agreement will enter into force when at least 10 members with a minimum of 50 pst. the contribution capital has deposited its instruments of ratification. It has been stated that the Bank will operate during the month-end of November/December 2015. Norway’s share of its capital of 100 billion US dollars are at 0.55 ps. 550 million. U.S. dollars. The Bank’s main objective is to promote sustainable development and regional cooperation in Asia through investment in infrastructure. Although poverty reduction is not an explicit objective for the bank, we must expect that investment in infrastructure will contribute to a development that involves economic growth and thus less poverty. Concern has been raised as to whether the Bank will rely on internationally recognised standards for modern multilateral banking. I don't think that's the basis for such a concern. Both the Bank’s Interim Secretariat and the Chinese initiators stress the need for a bank based on the best standards available, and the Committee takes the view that it should be followed up. Furthermore, the Committee considers that Norway will work within the Bank’s bodies to underpin international good practices, anti-corruption, social and environmental security mechanisms and decent employee rights. The Committee also supports the government in its view that Norwegian participation in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank represents a signal that Norway wants a good relationship with China. I think, President, that this matter, although it is a unanimous attitude, is of such importance that it should not pass the Storting without any words on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1384	The President agreed, but others have not asked for the floor on case No. 6, so that's going to be with one post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1398	I think this case is in the same category as the previous one – that it should get some good words on the way even if there is unanimity behind the setting. This is the agreement that came out of the WTO negotiations in Bali in December 2013 – a small step forward in negotiations that have been established for several years, and hopefully a contribution to bringing more developing countries into the global value chain of modern trade. The main objective of the Trade Facilities Agreement is to facilitate simpler, faster and cheaper trade. Procedures and rules for border crossing shall be standardised, improved and simplified. This will provide more transparency and information, fewer forms, shorter queues, less bureaucracy and less corruption. The agreement has a strong aid component that will ensure that developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries, have both time and help to modernise their procedures and rules to meet the commitments contained in the agreement. Inefficiencies in border crossings, bureaucracy and corruption have become increasingly important as barriers to trade have gradually been reduced by customs tariffs and represent significant costs for exporters, importers and consumers. In some cases it is also used as protectionist measures. For Norway, commercial fabrication could be of great importance, especially for the fishing industry, where 95 pst. of the production is exported. Faster treatment and fewer requirements for border crossings will have a major impact on exports to non-EEA countries. The Protocol must be approved by two thirds of WTO members for its entry into force. Today’s decision means that Norway will have done its own thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1419	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1427	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, from Rannveig Kvifte Andresen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The President would draw attention to the fact that there is a revised version of this proposal, and that that is the amended version that we are voting on. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to immediately stop the sale of weapons or military material to countries which commit serious human rights violations and abuses against their own population.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e1455	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to exempt the defence from the red tape and efficiency reform and to return to it in proposals for the revised national budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e2645	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e4355	It is first votted over Framework Areas 8, I and III. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e4370	It shall then be counted against Framework Areas 8, II and IV to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-10.ana.ud1930e6617	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
