ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e26	The following alternates shall now sit: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen and Marianne S. Bjorøy For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten For the Nordic counties: Jonny Finstad For Oslo: Prableen Kaur For Telemark County: Roy Bjurholt For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne and Lill Harriet Sandaune For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen The request for leave of the representative, Regina Alexandrova, to take part in a trip to Tromsø, Karasjok and Kautokeino with the Government Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation is received on 25 and 26 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Helge Eriksen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e89	Helge Eriksen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e101	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e108	The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society. They are responsible for kindergarten, school and care for the elderly, which are important services in people's everyday lives in all communities. Of course, in order for municipalities to provide a good school and a good care for the elderly, they need enough money to do the job. As the municipal economy was the theme of the Stortinget before Christmas, the Workers' Party warned against the consequences of a lean municipal structure for 2015, while last year the municipalities' tax revenues were approximately 2.7 billion. kr lower than that with which the municipalities had budgeted. Therefore, we proposed to strengthen the local economy and compensate for the failure of income. The government parties have been able to afford to pay billions in tax cuts, but they voted against more money for school and care for the elderly. Siv Jensen then believed that the government’s scheme ‘will enable municipalities to strengthen welfare production’. Unfortunately, we already see that reality is different. Municipalities must cut due to the tax failure. In addition, new estimates by the Statistical Central Bureau and the Bank of Norway show a possible tax failure for the local government sector in 2015 of around 1 billion. kr., and that amount may be even greater if the Norwegian economy develops weaker. Once the KS has asked the municipalities how it will work, it becomes clear that the efforts in the field of drugs and psychiatry are also hanging in a thin thread in many places, and there is a warning in the school services. More than half of the municipalities in the survey will look at interventions, such as staffing. Now it's approaching Easter, and one of the mountain weather rules says there's no shame in turning around. Therefore, my question is: will the Minister of Finance turn around and make sure that the municipalities do not have to cut school and welfare because of lower tax revenues than they have budgeted for this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e119	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Pedersen that the municipalities are responsible for very important welfare production, and very important welfare is produced in very many of the country's municipalities. However, it is also important, as the government has done, to reduce the tax on Norwegian business, especially at a time when Norwegian economy enters into transition, and where Norwegian business needs better framework conditions. So I just want to disagree with the claim of Helga Pedersen that the government has been able to afford tax cuts, but not to strengthen the local economy. It's de facto error. We've done both. We have taken into account both the Norwegian economy and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies, and in the adopted budget for the current year, we have increased the real growth of the municipalities' total revenues by 8.7 billion. kr and the free revenue of SEK 5,6 billion. kr. That said, I would like to stress that the government follows closely the economic situation in the municipal sector. We have regular contact with KS. We attach great importance to the provision of a good and predictable financial framework for the local government sector. Therefore, of course, we will assess the municipal economy in the context of both the revised national budget and the municipal proposition. It is also true, as the representative Pedersen says, that there is uncertainty about how, not least, the fall in the oil price will affect the activity of the Norwegian economy and how, in turn, it can affect the municipalities. We follow this closely, but it must also be possible to do several things at the same time, both strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian business through competitive tax rules and strengthening the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e128	I find this answer to be neither clear nor particularly reassuring. The Minister of Finance claims that municipal welfare is important, but she believes that tax cuts to those who have the most of them are even more important. When the government has chosen to spend billions on tax cuts, it is billions that could have been spent on elderly care and school instead. I also record that the Minister of Finance has a different approach to municipal income than when she was an opposition politician. In 2004, Siv Jensen said that it is today that the State is literally compensating the State for the loss of tax revenue, and that the same principle must apply to municipalities – as our rapporteurs have also pointed out. Why has Siv Jensen, as Minister of Finance, abandoned this principle, which she was so very clear on when she was in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e135	I believe my answer was very clear. It is possible that Helga Pedersen did not like the answer, but so it is that while the Workers' Party proposed in its 2015 alternative budget to increase taxes by over 10 billion. kr, this government has proposed to reduce taxes by over 12 billion. kr. Everyone understands that it affects the bottom line of Norwegian businesses, and at a time when there is increased uncertainty in the economy, it is essential that we facilitate the framework conditions for good, competitive businesses, which can expand, employ more and safer incomes for ordinary people. It may not be important for the Workers' Party, but it is very important for this Minister of Finance. I said very clearly that we are now following the situation in the local economy very closely, and, as the representative Pedersen also knows very well, the natural time to revise the estimates in the local economy is related both to the municipal pro-position and to the revised national budget, which the Stortinget will be presented later this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e142	There will be five follow-up questions – first Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e145	We have heard the Minister of Finance and others from this government say before one will follow developments closely. It did one last year, and it resulted in zero help to the many municipalities that had huge tax losses. It is obvious that the provision of services to children and young people and caregivers will be weakened if there is also a major tax failure this year, as was the case last year. A lot indicates that, but no one knows how much the failure will be. In any case, the municipalities must know that it will be compensated. I remind you again that the Workers' Party would give 3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities this year. Therefore, the minimum arrangements of the government must be met at least. So I would strongly encourage the Minister of Finance here and now to give a guarantee that one will compensate, so that the municipalities actually get the framework that it says in the State budget that they will have in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e152	As I said in my previous answer, the government has very close contact with the local authority's stakeholder organisation on both issues related to tax access and other important issues that the local authority sector is concerned with. The government is constantly concerned about this, and we are also concerned about strengthening the task transfers to the municipalities. We want to make local self-government even better than today, so we're working with the local government sector in a wide range of areas, including tax access issues. As I said, we are aware that the tax intake for 2014 was lower than expected, but there are also several factors that mitigate the consequences of the lower tax intake. Lower pay growth is one such thing. Additional expenditure due to population development is another factor. But anyway, we'll follow this closely, and we'll come back to this when we present revised budget in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e157	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e160	The citizens and local politicians are very concerned that we create good welfare services for people, and that it becomes predictable from one year to the next. The municipalities want to deliver as best they can from the frames they have. Now we've seen the tax deficit last year, and the tax input is a very important part of the municipal economy, and it's important for us politicians to find remedial measures if there's a huge variation in the tax input. Now, January and February are difficult months to see developments, but now March is over, so my question to the Minister of Finance is: What are the indications of the total tax intake so far for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e168	I expect to get up-to-date estimates on it pretty soon, when we start working on the details of the revised budget, which we are going to present to the Stortinge in May. But I also want to assure, once again, that questions relating to the finances of the municipalities are important to the government. It is quite right that the representative says that the municipalities are responsible for significant welfare production. It is about the security of everyday life for ordinary people – who want good schools for their children, who want good, well-functioning kindergartens, who want good care services at different stages of life. This, of course, requires a good and robust local economy. Therefore, the government has transferred more money to the municipalities every year. That is why, of course, we also focus on how the tax revenue is developing, and we will come back to those questions when we have fresh, up-to-date estimates.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e175	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e178	A review of the 2015 municipal budgets made by KS shows that it is being cut in a number of areas. In particular, it affects school and care and care. Recently, we have seen that the Health Authority is concerned about failure to provide health and care to the elderly. Overmedication for older people to avoid anxiety is one of the challenges, and of course it is because of too few employees. It seems that last year's tax failure will continue this year as well, and some of the manufactures even indicate that it may get worse. Now I understand that the principle that municipalities have to deal with the tax budget for the municipal sector, whether the failure is self-inflicted or not – the principle that they should not be compensated – is defended by the fact that they have been able to maintain income in the years before. Is it more important than our older ones to have a decent care? Is it in order to defend such principle that the Progress Party has striven to become a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e185	I think the representative is very well aware of the burning commitment of both the Progress Party and this government have, in order for us to have good services in the care and care sector for all citizens who need it. Of course, it is one of the most important things we politicians – whether we are in big business or government, or we are in the municipalities and the counties – are responsible for facilitating. We do this through a good interaction between the authorities, the Stortinget and the municipal politicians. So, of course, for a long time, even under the red-green government, it was a principle that when the municipalities had good tax years, they kept the surplus growth that the tax revenues gave them. Then they were not to be compensated for that in bad years either. Historically, there has been a good situation for municipalities, but there are also situations that require extra attention. That is why I say that the government will come back to this in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e190	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e193	Municipalities are the foundations of our welfare state in terms of good welfare services, both for the elderly and for school. It is also a prerequisite for many of us to have a good framework for business, so that they can actually be involved and contribute to the production of welfare services with the tax input they provide. Last autumn we adjusted for the county councils when we saw that it was not completely plank driving. We adjusted with a loss compensation. There's no doubt that last year's tax entrance was not what you'd expect. It's presumptuously too early to say what it is yet, but I could well imagine to get, not an insurance, but to hear if the government comes back to it in the context of the revision, if it turns out that the tax failure of the current year is in the order of magnitude that it might look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e198	I'd like to assure you again. I expect to get up-to-date estimates of how this development has been since the end of the year, and of course there will be a significant basis for how the government reports to the Stortinget on various issues, both in the municipal bill and in the revised budget, which will be presented to the Stortinget for consideration later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e203	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e206	For the time being, it is easier to see the party's glowing commitment to tax relief to the richest than to see them defend the economy of the municipalities, which are responsible for ensuring, among other things, that. care for the elderly. For there is no link between more jobs and tax relief and good finances, but there is a clear link between the government compensating for tax losses to municipalities and the ability to have good care for the elderly and enough teachers in school, and for example. copes with the promise of the government in the field of drugs and psychiatry and the school health service, of which SV is a strong supporter. That's why we've seen that the local economy needs to be strengthened beyond what is happening today, while the government is looking at and turning the deaf ear to the fact that revenue is now falling big for the second consecutive year. Is the care of the elderly more important to the Advancement Party than that of those with high wealth to receive even more in tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e211	I totally disagree with the premises in the question to the representative Andersen. There is a clear link between what kind of framework conditions we create for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises, and in particular at a time marked by migration, uncertainty and concerns for very many of the country's businesses, especially around the West. I'm serious about that. This is precisely why it is important that we facilitate better access to capital for businesses, high predictability and opportunities to make investments even in times of uncertainty. It is possible that there are links that are not important to the representative Andersen, but they are important to me. But it is also possible to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. I am also – and the representative knows well – strongly committed to improving the care of the elderly around the country’s municipalities. We do that by legislating the right to a decent care for the elderly, we do it by setting up a pilot project with government funding for the care of the elderly, and we do it not least by strengthening the community economy. That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e218	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e222	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Norway and the government have been very clear about the condemnation of Russia's aggressive intervention in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. I'm glad. This is an unacceptable violation of international law; it is a violation of the sovereignty of other states. Norway has also agreed sanctions against Russia in line with those agreed by the EU, and it is important to act jointly to influence Russia and make the authorities in the country change their behaviour. At the same time, Norway has an interest in maintaining a good neighbourly relationship in our neighbourhoods in the north. In a longer interview on the TV channel CNN with the Minister of Defence, the headline was that Norway’s relationship with Russia can never be the same. While it is important that we have a strong response to Russia’s unacceptable behaviour towards Ukraine, we also need a long-term strategy to influence Russia, to provide incentives for change – both in the Russian foreign policy we see here, and in the domestic policy. I haven't got all the details in the interview at CNN, but I want to openly challenge the Minister of Defense on our relationship with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e233	I thank you for the question and also for the opportunity to talk about the interview. The heading to which the representative Hareide refers was not correct, it did not express what I said, and it corrected CNN and other media quite immediately. But what I said was that we are in a changed security situation because of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. We, as a country in the international community, have to respond to violations of international law that are as serious as what we have seen in this situation. And we've been far from alone to do that. I think it is important, as the representative Hareide also points out, that the sanctions policy has had two purposes. One is the concrete sanctions, the other is that we've agreed on the sanctions. I believe that has been almost as important as the content of the sanctions. We have also been very clear that our relationship with Russia has always been marked by firmness and predictability. It's going to continue. But at the same time I've been clear that with the aggression we're seeing now, it's unlikely that in the short term we'll come back to the relationship we had. This is not only true for Norway, it is true for the international community as a whole. This is not a bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia, it is a relationship between Russia and Western countries. It is Russia that can change its behaviour, begin to respect international law and the UN Pact, and on that basis have other relations with the outside world. What I've been busy about is telling about the world and the situation the way it is and the way we see it, not the way we want it to be. That's why it's been important for us to point out the obvious violations of international law, being a nation that, together with other nations, takes a clear distance from them, and not least it has been important for us as a relatively small country to make sure that international law is strong. We are totally dependent on it, and it would be totally unimaginable for us not to respond to the obvious violations of international law, the aggression that Russia has shown in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e244	I thank you for the good answer. I'm glad the Minister of Defense has been so clear. At the same time, we know that this conflict in Ukraine cannot be resolved by military means. There must be a political solution. To imagine that Russia, on the one hand, and the EU/US, on the other, is really going to solve this by military means, is none of us wanting or being able to understand. That's why it's important to find this balance between a clarity and a firmness, but also to be in a dialogue and to be able to affect Russia. Not least for Norway, which has had cooperation with Russia over the last decades – a practical, not so strategic cooperation, but we have had cooperation – it is important that we also facilitate further dialogue. How does the Minister of Defense think we're doing it in the situation we're in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e251	It is absolutely right that we have had, and still have, cooperation with Russia in many areas. In my field, the military, we have suspended bilateral military cooperation, but at the same time we have maintained cooperation in areas that are very important for both nations. It's Coast Guard, it's border guard, it's search and rescue, and not least we've been busy maintaining the open channel we have between the Defense Operational Headquarters and the North Fleet. It is important for example: in order to avoid misunderstandings in the situation where military instruments have again been shown to be in use. We do not see any military threat from Russia to Norway now, but we see a significant capacity improvement over the past few years. We have shown the ability and will to use military power and know that intentions are something we must follow closely because they can change quickly. Russia must then take its share of the responsibility for complying with the Minsk agreements, and we must seek a political solution in Ukraine. But even after a political solution, there will be another Russia we are facing, and we must be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e260	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e263	There are many offensive politicians here. The Minister of Defence said that we are facing a completely changed security policy situation. For Norway, it is a fact that we are NATO members. It is, and has been, a cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy since 1949. In 2010, NATO adopted a new strategic concept. In short, some choices were made, some goals, and how to achieve those objectives. At the same time, we see that in the last few years, developments have caused many to ask whether that concept needs a reassessment given a changed security policy situation. I want to ask the Minister for Defence: does she see a need for NATO to review its strategic concept now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e272	A major effort has been made in NATO in the last year to review both planning and preparedness and to ensure that the alliance is better able to respond quickly if anything happens. As the representative is well-known, a Readiness Action Plan has been adopted in connection with the Wales Summit last year. Norway has an important role to play in implementing this plan, and it will ensure both that we have updated contingency plans and that we can provide rapid response and reinforcement if necessary. Together with the Netherlands and Germany, we have assumed responsibility for developing a pilot for the new rapid reaction force in 2015 with Telemark battalion, and we consider – and participate in – tranquilisation and deterrence measures that the alliance considers necessary. We did it in 2014, and we keep doing it in 2015. It's important to show solidarity and solidarity in the alliance, but it's also important, of course, to show that NATO is clear if something should happen, even if it's a unlikely outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e279	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e282	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a thorough clarification of his views on the CNN and for the good cooperation we have had on the sanctions. There has been unanimity among the political parties on this, and it is a strength for a small country. My question is about the northern regions, and I have to say that I am stunned by the government's slogans for the Northern Region Strategy, from dialogue to action. In today's situation, I think dialogue is an end in itself. I also call for clearer action, because we have the self-interest of as much cooperation as possible in the current situation. When cultural cooperation with Russia is reduced, I wonder what kind of new initiatives in the Northern Region initiative the government will take initiatives to strengthen dialogue with the Russian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e289	It is the foreign minister who has the constitutional responsibility for this area, but I can speak for the area I represent. As I said, we have suspended bilateral military cooperation, but we focus on cooperation and communication in those areas where it is important for the cooperation between our two peoples, and not least the security of people. We should remember that from both a Norwegian perspective and a Russian perspective, the northern regions are an area where there is much going on, but there is often little infrastructure, for example. to search and rescue – we are totally dependent on maintaining it. Dialogue and people-to-people cooperation are thus not affected either by the suspension of military cooperation or by other parts of it. For us, it is important to engage in dialogue – it has always been – but it is also important to respond to obvious violations of international law and to respond to Russian authorities, like the other allies do, what other European countries do. It would be totally unimaginable for Norway not to respond to the aggression we have seen, and I am very pleased with the good cooperation we have had with the Storting on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e296	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e300	The Government Declaration states that the government’s policy ‘must build up under the development of industry, safeguard Norwegian interests, strengthen cooperation with Russia and the polar states, as well as the basis for activity and settlement in the north’. In the above-mentioned CNN interview, the Council of State warns against believing that the situation we now have will pass. The situation has changed, something we're all agreed on. She also said that it is not possible to revert to a normal situation because normality does not exist. It is in the north that they have the security policy challenges, with that also where we have the most important cooperation with just Russia, a cooperation that is now obviously reduced due to sanctions that we are all behind. We're all behind the joint decisions that have been made in Stortinget. How does the Minister of Defence feel that a rhetoric that she has benefited from this interview affects people-to-people cooperation? And is it still a long-term goal for the government to have a well-functioning cooperation with Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e311	I believe that for all nations of Europe it is a desire to have a working relationship with Russia – as it is with all other countries. At the same time, as the State Council – and we as the government – I have to tell you about the picture we see, about the developments we see. Among other things, we see an increasingly authoritarian Russia, which, of course, poses cooperation problems in areas other than what we are now looking at. It is important for us to stress that in the situation we are in, we need to react clearly and clearly. But we're maintaining our cooperation in a lot of areas. And so do other countries. It is important for us, especially in the north and especially related to the safety of people at sea – and also in other areas. There we have been very clear that we want to maintain cooperation and dialogue. At the same time, it is important to stress that it has a different character, precisely because of Russia's own actions, and Russia is the country that can change its behaviour and respect international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e318	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e321	First, I would like to give the Minister of Defence full support for the importance for Norway, together with the EU, of maintaining sanctions against Russia, in the light of Russia's totally unacceptable behaviour in Ukraine. But at the same time, it is important to be aware that these are politically specific sanctions, and to continue both people-to-people cooperation and other ongoing cooperation. That's why it has to be a whole. The Minister of Defence also pointed to Russia's violent military capabilities – not as a threat – to which we also have to deal. Now the Minister of Defense has asked for a new professional military advice, but it will take some time before we get it. And then my question is: In the light of the situation, the Minister of Defence also sees the need to implement measures in the short term, for example. against the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e328	It is quite right, as the representative Elvestuen says, that the head of defence is running the professional military council, and that will form the basis for the new long-term defence plan to be presented next spring. Through our budgets, we have sought to strengthen Defence, and in particular with emphasis on the situation in the northern regions. We've also recently wanted to turn part of the exercise and training activity northwards, for presence. For us, it's important to have a presence, which is a completely normal state. The exercise we just carried out in Finnmark has been planned for a long time, since 2013, i.e. before the Russian actions in Ukraine. At the same time, it is important for us to be able to practise defense of the whole country, because it is the defence of the entire country. So this is a kind of exercise that goes on a little bit of a tour between different places in the country, but that was now in Finnmark. Training staff and training on equipment in given situations are of course just as important for us as for other countries, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e337	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e340	SV has co-operated with the government in the criticism of Russia’s behaviour in Ukraine, Russia’s aggression and violations of international law. We have also encouraged the government to take a very clear view of Russian human rights violations. And we are deeply concerned about the political developments we see in Russia, most recently illustrated by this summit of European right-wing nationalist groups who were in Russia to salute Putin, and the support of right-wing populists around Europe says something about the nature of the regime. Nevertheless, we reacted to the tone of part of the interview with CNN, and not just on the headline, because we fear that a rhetoric based on the fact that today’s level of conflict is almost permanent, could quickly become a self-fulfilling prophecy — and that in a situation where Norway has strong interests, among other things. maintaining good people-to-people cooperation in the north. Many in Finnmark are concerned about that. My question to the Minister of Defence is therefore: What is the government's strategy to avoid a permanent cooling-down of the relationship and to ensure that what the Council of State said in the interview is not going to be the situation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e349	What I said in the CNN interview, for those who have heard through it, is nothing other than what the government's other representatives have said. It's also completely in line with what the NATO Secretary-General has said. It's precisely because we have to take into account what we see and how the world actually is. I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken that there is deep concern about the domestic political situation in Russia and about how to attach an increasingly authoritarian grip on civil society. This meeting that was held in St. Petersburg just days ago, many feel that many could not have arrived without a certain approval from Putin, precisely because it is so impossible to arrange similar meetings with another political sign. That is why, of course, we are deeply concerned about this, and I fully agree with that. We have no other strategy than, of course, to seek to maintain cooperation in those areas where it is natural, and where it is important for our two people. It's about people-to-people cooperation, but it's also about, as I mentioned, coastguard, border guard, search and rescue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e358	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e361	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. Since the appointment of the Minister of Agriculture, there has been a lot of debate and noise around Norwegian agriculture. We got in 2013 a state council that had determined that there is no future in a communist system. Now we're facing the second agricultural settlement of the Council of State, so it might be worth looking at the status so far. Two legislative acts have been delivered to Stortinget: the completely uncontroversial nature compensation law and a proposal to abolish price control. The price control has now been in Stortinget for nine months. When the government does not have the capacity to obtain a majority in this case, the answer was a new consultation – this time to repeal the entire concession law. It was much better when the agricultural settlement failed and ended with a historic overrun of the council of state in Stortinget. Another area where there has been a lot of debate is the question of food chain control. Here, the Council of State has left a final bill on good trade and has been waiting since the government change. The councils are still expressing concern about the power of food chains, but the only concrete thing we've seen is a media show last summer, where the chains were called up on the carpet. A daily food portal was recently adopted in Stortinget to protest by the Council of State, in the same way that the Stortinget adopted a decision on an action plan against antibiotic resistance – also against the will of the Council of State. Some of the grapples have succeeded: there's been a little cut here and there. Some borders and support rates are changing, and we no longer have different legislation for outdoor and winter feed sheep. But it's at all hard to see what was communist with the system in 2010 that's not the same thing in 2015. After a year and a half with noise, my question is to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the agricultural settlement of the spring can be carried out in a decent and dignified manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e378	I am very pleased with the agricultural settlement in 2014, where we had very important changes in place. This government took over an agricultural sector where the optimism was not exactly up-to-date, where one has had challenges of recruitment for many years, and where one sees that one, for example, has. sheep meat and beef, have had an ever-increasing import, despite the fact that we have incredibly good relations here in the country to produce more of that. If we look at the results so far, we saw last autumn that the milk quotas were torn away in all the counties – we have had a situation where some states have had problems converting all the milk quotas – and that suggests that there are farmers who want to bet and produce more. We see that in the sheep industry there are now many who signal that they want to bet: build new poultry and produce a lot of meat. And for those who are occupied with Norwegian resources, the sheep is actually the animal species that can perhaps make the most of the field in a very good way. We see that last year's earth recycling was at the lowest level it's been since 1976, when these measurements began. Then there were 44 municipalities that had not signed up for KOSTRA, but it looks very, very good. We saw that the investments in the first six months of last year had increased by 20 pst. through Innovation Norway. So I hear the industry say it's not because of this government – it's despite this government. But I think farmers think like most people: if you see a future in the industry, you want to invest – if you don't, you don't. If you are in danger of losing your job, you do not build a new house – just as farmers do not build new buildings if they do not see a future in the industry. We can also mention that in the field of natural sciences, there is now an increase in the search there – far beyond that for other professions. So I'm very pleased with the direction this is taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e394	I record that I was not close to getting an answer to my question, which was about some thoughts about this year's agricultural settlement. Of course, I'm not asking about the content of it, but a government council must have opinions about the policy area she governs, even if it's approaching a settlement. There are in particular three very important questions – to which it should be easy to answer – that I want answers to. One is whether the Council of State is basing its stated policy on increasing food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. There is something the Progress Party and the Right will not be in the Storting, but the majority have said so. The second is whether the State Council aims to increase farmers' income. The third is about the Council of State this year will clarify the offer with the Christian People's Party and the Left before it is presented, so that the agricultural settlement of the year can be carried out in a decent and dignified way, and that we release the rounds that one had last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e405	I'm still satisfied with the settlement last year, and I'm going into this year's settlement with a goal – like last year – of agreeing with the farmers' organisations on an agreement. If there's a break this year, it's the first time in history that there'll be a break for three out of four years, and I think that both the farmers' organizations and I have a common interest in not happening. In the job I am going to do towards the agricultural settlement, I will, of course, look at the position from last year's settlement, but it is important for me to continue the job to be done in terms of simplification. It is not wrong to say that during the eight years that the Central Party was sitting and steering, very little happened. There was very little simplification and change at all. That is why I came to a sector that was over-ripe for change, and I have done it well. We got through 26 out of 29 simplification proposals. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e412	I'm sorry, the time's up. There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e417	It was not so easy to answer the question from the representative Pollestad in the answers that came from the Council of State. It seems as if the council has pugged a lesson before she came, and as she repeats. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question from the representative Pollestad: Would you like to continue with what was going on last year? If you want to produce more from Norwegian resources, would it be a guide? That the incomes of Norwegian farmers should be increased would it be a guide? And will one clarify with the cooperation parties on Stortinget what will be the contents of this agreement? He's going through the Greatest, anyway. Hopefully, you will find a solution with the agricultural partners, as you should and as you should be. But if the government can't do the right thing about what leads are, it's a little hard to understand how to get the deal through in the Storting. How do the state councils think about the three questions Pollestad asked? It would be nice to get a little more specific answers to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e422	All three questions are addressed in the referral by the Committee. It is an attitude that I know very well, and of course I want to have as a starting point when we are going to make an offer from the state. The installation from Pollestad was characterized by a lot of input, so it wasn't that easy to answer everything. One thing he took up was the situation with the food chains, which it is also important for us to pursue. It's on the side of the agricultural agreement, but he also had it on his question. There it is that we had a government earlier that thought the food was cheap. We now have a government that believes that food is expensive, and we have a government that is occupied by those who serve little, who are low-paid, and who use large parts of their income – it could be between 20 and 30 pst. - on food. That is why it is important to address the food chain situation and competition throughout the value chain. [[The President clubs.]] There were many things to grips with, but I have tried to take some of them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e429	I understand that the council has a lot of heart, but it has to happen in the context of speaking time. Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e434	The Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party agreed last year on a number of pillars of agricultural policy to lead the year's settlement. One of the pillars most often drawn in the Committee's position last year is a varied use structure, i.e. small, medium-sized and large-scale use across the country. If we're going to achieve the goal of increased self-sufficiency, we need to have a food production that exceeds population growth, i.e. more than 1 pst. increases in food production each year. Then it is absolutely essential that we use the whole country, and that farming is profitable even for small and medium-sized applications. The last year’s offer gave the premise for extensive structuring from small and medium-sized to large-scale applications by giving the bulk of the growth in transfers to the largest. The biggest response was to reverse the largest changes and in that way to bring the results for the settlement of the year. My question will then be: How will the Council of State ensure that the Grand Duchy's desire to ensure good profitability also for small and medium-sized applications is taken care of in the agricultural settlement of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e439	I believe that we made good provision for a varied usage structure last year. Some changes were made. I believe the total was very good. What is important for this government is to facilitate full-time farmers too, that more people should be able to live from farm resources. On my many trips in Norway, I have seen with my own eyes that it does not have much to do with size, but with what you do out of the farm. I have visited small goat farming where one has hired five people because one runs tourism, one runs a farm shop, one eats cheese – you have a lot of legs to stand on. There is also a background for the government’s determination to present its own large-scale communication on start-up and value creation in agriculture, so that more people can live on farm resources. That was also why, in the agricultural settlement we have behind us, we increased the investment funds through Innovation Norway by 30 pst. - Almost 100 million. available to farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e444	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e447	The last year's offer from the government was a strong twist from using all the country's agricultural land to bet on the big ones. But without the combined use, we can't produce enough food, and without the combined use, we can't supply our food industry, which is very important, and the last thing is that without customs protection, both industry and much of food production will disappear. Last year there were some battles of customs protection and ostetoll in the Stortinget, which ended up in a very remarkable position, where the government parties stood on their policies, and then they stood together with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the policies of the majority of the population. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State now base the view of the majority of the population on customs protection in the future and insist that it should not be weakened, so that neither agricultural production nor large food production in Norway is reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e454	It is true that the previous government at the time of the State Council of Battle of Vedum said yes to the EU when it came to renegotiating Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. That is what this government is doing, and it is clear that it is an important matter in which this government will, of course, take care of Norwegian interests. But looking at the food industry, meat production and dairy sector, centralisation has been much stronger in industry than it has been in primary production. We see that there are fewer and fewer plants; we see that one is laying down new buildings – larger units – and that is how centralisation is much stronger at that point. What we can provide is that people are given the opportunity to drive, but neither the state nor anyone else can force anyone to be a farmer – it must be a wish on their own. Our task is to organize.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e464	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e467	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Norway shall move through a green shift. This will apply to all industries, including agriculture. Agriculture will always release greenhouse gases, as they are biological processes and living organisms. With increased knowledge and by doing things differently, it is possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. Among other things, climate change in 2020 has led Bioforsk to produce three reports that address different relevant issues related to the treatment of fertilisers and soil. These reports on agricultural measures have found that it is possible to reduce agricultural emissions by a total of 1,2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. In order for the measures to be fully effective by 2020, phase-in must start rapidly. The Committee's comments on the agricultural situation in 2014 also highlighted the need to strengthen the climate agreement and to follow up on agri-GHG measures. The question is, how will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e477	In terms of greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, research into how we can constantly improve on how to do things is incredibly important. It's often that you think that the biggest emissions happen by the tanker entering the farm, or that the butcher gets into the farm, but the truth is that that's what's going on on on the farm, which is the biggest challenge. We have a common goal of increasing food production. That means that we're e.g. shall produce more beef in Norway. This will help to increase emissions domestically, but then imports less externally. It is also such that we have a stake in biogas plants. Now we see that it's starting to get into place in some parts of the country. There will also be an exciting development to follow in the future. So we know that research into plant species and genetics within the animal world is very important. Just the fact that the Norwegian cows are now supplying many more liters of milk than they have done before means that we need fewer cows to produce the same amount of milk, which means that less milk is released. What is important to us is to follow up on this and to provide the assessments in relation to agricultural production. It is also important, in the context of the annual budgets, to consider what might be an important step. And then it's also about looking at what the range that we've put down, which is going to go through the climate challenges in the agricultural sector, comes to light. They shall provide their report by the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e490	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy for what she says related to R & D and to research in particular. I am pleased that that sample is finally reduced, but I will follow up with a more detailed question. We know that there are 40 000 tonnes of nitrogen in Norway and between 7 000 and 8 000 tonnes of phosphorus in fields and meadows through the use of manure. How this is disseminated has a major impact on the amount of emissions of greenhouse gases and nutrients. For several years a testing scheme has been carried out in selected areas of Buskerud, Hedmark, Rogaland, Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag as regards the environmentally friendly application of manure. Does the Council of State realize that this will soon be a system for the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e495	If this is an effective way of working, it is clear that it may be interesting for the rest of the country. Now we have a pretty strong player in Norwegian Agricultural Advisory, who is quite good at forwarding the good examples that exist in agriculture, and pretty good at converting the research that is taking place into a tool that the farmer can use on the farm. So I expect one to make these assessments, and see if this can be a solution that several people can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e500	There will be follow-up questions – first Ola Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e503	I am pleased that the sample to look at agricultural challenges in response to climate change is finally reduced. I hope that it is an important part of the work that we also look at greenhouse gas reduction measures, because we need to reduce emissions. Last night, Stortinget adopted our new climate targets by 2030, where, together with the EU, we will reduce emissions by 40 pst. Since a large part will be in the sector subject to allowances, even though it is not yet specified, there will have to be large emission cuts on what is not in the quota sector, including agriculture. This does not mean that increased beef production will lead to increased emissions in Norway. Total emissions need to be reduced, and then my question is: How does the Council of State view the work organised and carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e508	It is that if we are to produce more beef in Norway, emissions will rise. But then we have a goal of reducing them by using new technologies, and here I believe that research is very important. It is also important that we work internationally, because so far no country has found, we should say, the euca-solutions on how to solve the challenges of the agricultural climate. So here it's about developing new technology, moving on to get there. So I also think it is important to say that the climate situation that is also gives us some new opportunities. If we get an increase in the temperature in Norway, it will mean that we can grow more and also new things in different parts of the country. We heard, among other things: Norwegian wine production is now under way. So it's possible to produce grapes and wine. So it's not just challenges, it also gives us some opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e515	Trond Henry Blattmann – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e518	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently issued a report showing that the impacts of climate change are expected to be greater than previously assumed, in particular for world food production. Researchers from several institutes have summarised external knowledge showing that significant parts of greenhouse gas emissions come from agriculture. ==References== 90 pst. the greenhouse gases from Norwegian agriculture come from feed and livestock production. What measures do the Council of State think are important in the short term in order for agriculture to be able to participate in the cut we need to implement in Norway in order to meet our greenhouse gas emissions obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e523	It's about working smarter and finding good solutions through research on how to reduce emissions. As I was inside, no one has come up with any revolutionary ways to do it. But that's something we work with through research, where we also have to work internationally to see how we can do it. So I think it's an advantage that we produce food here in Norway. The alternative would be that we emitted less, but then imported the food. For the total emissions of the world, I think it would have had little to say. We're still going to have Norwegian food production, but we're going to work all the time to get the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e531	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e534	Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have repeatedly said that there is a greater need to facilitate a transition to alternative energy sources and non-petroleum-based products, both to make the Norwegian economy less petroleum dependent and to ensure future value creation when oil extraction is no longer possible or profitable. Norway has large natural resources linked, inter alia, to: agriculture, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture. The Christian People's Party believes that greater use of these resources should be facilitated with a view to developing profitable and sustainable bio-based petroleum substitutes. In the context of the State budget, an overall nutrition committee asked for the development of a bioeconomy strategy. Can the State Council state when the Storting can expect to see such a strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e543	We are now going to create a bioeconomy strategy that will just look at what the representative is dealing with – how we can exploit the forest in an even better way. What we know is that we can make the same thing out of three that we can make out of oil. It gives us enormous opportunities, but also challenges. What's important, of course, is that we can make profitable products that can compete on the market. This strategy is intended to be completed in the course of the year – a strategy for better use of resources in Norway, in both the blue and the green sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e548	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e551	Agriculture has its share of the climate challenges, and it is often focused on the challenges and problems associated with them. But they also have many climate opportunities and a positive potential that can be exploited. One of the solutions presented in the Evening Post for some time ago was new greenhouse-related measures. The greenhouse sector is, of course, an area with high CO2 emissions. It was a new experiment with a new system when it applied to greenhouses, which contributed to quite amazing results at the Mærære Agricultural School in Nord-Trøndelag: 99 pst. reduction in CO2, 80 pst. reduction in energy use, and there is very important and good local cooperation between entrepreneurs, school management and county councils. The type of action needs to be increased. How will the Council of State contribute to the support of the type of solutions, and thus to the wider use of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e566	There is a great deal of funding available for research, etc., and the climate is one of the areas where research is also a priority in the agricultural sector. It is good to find solutions locally, where you go together and work together. Then, of course, there is something we can look at – whether we have funds for that kind of experiment when we are going to review what action needs to be taken in the agricultural sector, both to bring up research and to help reduce emissions in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e573	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e576	If we're going to reduce agricultural emissions, it's a very important thing to do: we can go to more organic farming. Organic farming reduces emissions because it is less resource intensive. But if we are to take on the big challenge of increasing food production and at the same time not ruining both the environment and the climate, we need to be able to do more about this. We simply need to know more about local conditions around the country. The Minister of Agriculture has, in that situation, cut research on agriculture. And now, because of demands to cut their budgets, Bioforsk has been forced to propose that the Bioforsk stations Holt in Tromsø, Furuneset in Sogn and Fjordane, The Onion in Uppland, Tingvoll in More and Romesdal and Svanhovd in Finnmark be built or laid down. Half of them are in North Norway. How does the Minister make this go hand in hand with a stake in a spill?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e587	What we're going to do is we're going to build a great and good research institute that's going to be the country's third largest, that's going to run agricultural research, where we're going to merge Bioforsk, Forest and Landscape and NILF. So the background is that we're going to create a research institute, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, which is going to be a lighthouse for research in this area. Then there's a need to look at the structure, and it's happening now that the interim board of the merged institute is working on it. They will make a decision on 9 April, and then forward it to the government. The most important thing is not where this happens, but how to arrive at the good solutions that ensure Norway a close-up position in what is involved in research in the agricultural sector, because there really needs to be done even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e596	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e599	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: There are enough nuclear weapons in the world to destroy all life several times. The population is still plagued in areas where nuclear weapons have been used, with the aftermath, and there is only one morally sound position for nuclear weapons, and that is to ban, abolish and destroy such weapons. Today, nuclear weapons are the only weapons of mass destruction that are not banned; instead, nuclear weapons are a cornerstone of the military apparatus of several major powers. The humanitarian initiative taken by Norway during the last government, the Oslo Conference on the Humanitarian Impact of Nuclear Weapons, was very important. It was the germ of what could become a political process for once again putting nuclear disarmament on the international agenda. We believe that Norway’s role in further work is of great importance, and therefore it is serious that the government’s signals are that Norway will not support the important work that Austria has done to continue this process. Through Austrian Pledge, Austria has promised to work for a future ban on nuclear weapons and has challenged other countries to join. This reminds me of the international processes that were to get rid of class weapons and landmines. In those processes Norway had a leading role, and many expect the same from Norway today. The government has said that it has a vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, but such a vision needs an instrument, an agreement, or a convention in order to become a reality, and the government has now said that it will not work for a ban on nuclear weapons. How will the government get rid of nuclear weapons without working for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e611	Once again, I get a question that falls within the constitutional sphere of another state council, but I like to answer from my perspective. As the representative Lysbakken is well-known, nuclear weapons are part of NATO's strategy; they are part of the government's strategy SV, which has also been supported by this government. It doesn't mean that there's no support for a vision of a nuclear-free world, but at the same time it means that it would be contrary to our NATO membership if we were to go in for a total ban now. The importance of having nuclear weapons as part of their deterrence strategy is, of course, that there are countries and countries in the world that have nuclear weapons. This means that as long as they exist, NATO’s strategy has been that NATO must also be able to have nuclear weapons – even though it is described in NATO’s planning as ‘extremely remote’, which means that something is very unlikely to be used. Norway has also wanted to work along the established canals for disarmament, and NATO is also increasingly emphasising disarmament in its strategy, and I believe that this is important. In my opinion, it is not an option to not have a nuclear strategy as long as there are countries that possess nuclear weapons. I also think there is an interesting point in the context that just a few days ago we experienced that the Russian ambassador to Denmark threatened Denmark with the possible use of nuclear weapons if Denmark had contributed to NATO's missile defence system. That means that uncertainty is created. It doesn't mean that there's a threat, but there's an uncertainty that makes this still part of NATO's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e620	Let me first say that I think it is a very relevant question to ask the Minister of Defence – it is of obvious interest for the Storting to know what the Minister of Defence thinks about these questions. So to the question of the feasibility of a work for prohibition. It is quite clear that there is nothing legal about our NATO membership that prevents Norway from taking such a position. Nor can it be politically in the way of this, because the Austrian Pledge and the work that Austria has been doing is not a unilateral nuclear disarmament, but to start international work on a ban as a goal. There are therefore so many parties in this Chamber who have a positive view of NATO, also concluding on the proposal that the Left, the Centre Party and the SV have promoted together. So it's simply wrong that NATO membership prevents us. There are questions about the political will of the government. I want to ask – in the light of press releases that have been – whether it is a political pressure from the United States that makes Norway afraid to go for a ban, and that this government has a different rhetoric and a different line from that of the previous one. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e629	The President must remember that speaking time also applies to mountain people, although it may be demanding. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e632	My answer is – as the previous answer – that this is something that has also been clearly stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, both in the foreign policy debate after the presentation and later. We believe that it is contrary to our alliance obligation if we are now going to go in for a total ban, as long as NATO has nuclear weapons as part of its deterrent strategy. They are not available for use, but because there are still countries with nuclear weapons. NATO has said that as long as it exists, the alliance must also have nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e637	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e640	Then we've made it clear that the government has not intended to work for ban, but they have a vision of a ban on nuclear weapons. That's a very interesting point of view. At the same time, proposals have been made in this Chamber. Three parties have joined forces on a proposal for a ban, and two parties have indicated support for a ban. It means – quickly counted in the head – that if there is a reconciliation in this case, there will be multiples. If this gets more than one, will the government work for a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e647	I can only register with some wonder that when SV was in government, there was no proposal for a ban on nuclear weapons. It could have used the occasion while they were in power. They didn't. This is of course because it was not the Labour Party's policy in the government they were in, nor was it the Central Party's policy. Then I have said – as the government and the foreign minister have also said – that the vision of a nuclear-free world is, I believe, in every part. The question is whether NATO – in the situation we are in, has been in and is likely to be in the future, namely that there are countries that possess nuclear weapons – should have as their strategy that we should remove our nuclear weapons. I think that would be an unwise strategy. It also meant that the previous government was an unwise strategy. We work – as I said – along the established channels of disarmament. NATO also places increasing emphasis on disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e654	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e657	I think the Minister of Defense's answer in this case is far from square in terms of the political process of working against nuclear weapons. It is quite obvious that Norway had an offensive line for this before the government change. We also heard a foreign minister who was relatively offensive in Stortinget before Christmas, and now we hear an answer where there is in a way no room for discussion about Norway's strategy in relation to nuclear weapons. I know that on many occasions the Minister of Defence complained about the former government and the relationship with the Stortinget. It is now the case that there is a relatively large majority in this Chamber for a more offensive position in the negotiations on nuclear weapons, for taking more initiative and for pressure in this work. How does the Minister of Defence relate to the majority in the main hall in terms of the view of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e664	So the specific debates on this are not part of my constitutional area, and I am therefore not going to give a complete answer to that either. There are questions that Huitfeldt's representative is asked to the appropriate State Council, which is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. From my side, I want to repeat what I have said: it is important to work for disarmament, and so does the government, and we are following the established channels that are to work for disarmament. We're going to continue to do that, but that doesn't mean we're going away from what's NATO's strategy, which the previous government completely ended up about, and which I record in today's edition of Today's Business, that NATO's Secretary-General, recent party leader and prime minister of the Workers' Party, also fully supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e671	I am surprised that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are expressing themselves in this matter as if the proposal from the Left, the SV and the Central Party were about NATO to settle down unilaterally. That is not what the proposal is about. I thought it was a little square in the answers given, both by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by the Minister of Defence. It is worth remembering that Austrian Pledge says nothing about NATO countries giving up nuclear weapons before anyone else does, and the argument we meet from the government reminds a lot of the argument that was used when the initiative came that Norway should engage with class weapons and landmines. Then it was also the NATO membership that was used as an answer: we couldn't do that. Norway's initiative at that time was decisive to create a political basis for a ban. How does the Council of State see that the government will create the political basis for which it is waiting, without supporting the very concrete initiative that is now under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e679	I am not going to discuss in detail how these negotiations, whether with the Stortinget or in other channels, will happen. It is the constitutional responsibility of the Foreign Minister, and he must answer that question. But my point has been to stress that when it is so clearly expressed that this is contrary to our NATO membership and the strategy on which both the previous and the current government have come to an end, this is a topic which, in my opinion, is not appropriate – to accept this ban that is now being addressed by some parties. I still record that there has been no decision on what they want to do from the Workers' Party so far, but I also registered the question to Huitfeldt's representative recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e684	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e687	I'm a child of the 1980s. If there was a child in the 1980s who was afraid of it, it was a nuclear weapon. There was a lot of political awakening in me, and I have to admit that now I feel as a national politician that the question is extremely topical again. The left is very much for NATO. We believe it creates Norwegian security, and we believe it is a cooperation structure that is good for Norway. But NATO's strategic concept also includes working for a world without nuclear weapons. That's just a good reason to be a member of NATO, because you can work together to build up these weapons. We also see that Norway has had its own policy of deployment and storage in Norway, where we have not wanted to store nuclear weapons – a discussion also when I was little. And France wants a completely separate nuclear policy if they're a member of NATO. I do not understand why this conflicts with membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e694	I just want to repeat what I've said. I fully agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security. We must protect it well, and we want a strong and good alliance. We have concluded on the strategic concepts and concepts of both disarmament and deterrence that NATO has. I note that this is a view that NATO's Secretary-General today also highlights in today's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e699	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e702	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Norway is sending soldiers to Iraq. The Workers' Party supports this contribution. It is also a force for international law. At the same time, it's important, when we support our soldiers, that we give a sober description of what kind of mission our soldiers go into. Human Rights Watch now reports massive violations of human rights, torture, killing civilians – including ethnic cleansing from the Iraqi army and from the Shia militia. It's been a while since the government took the decision, with the support of a majority in Britain, to send soldiers. I think it is right that the Minister of Defense gives a description of how the situation on the ground is right now, so that the Norwegian people are aware of what reality Norwegian soldiers go into. My question is: what is the Minister of Defence's assessment of Iraqi security forces related to the respect of international law, human rights and political control of the security forces in today's Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e713	I am pleased to have this question, because, as the representative of Huitfeldt rightly points out, it was a nearly unanimous increase, with some exceptions, which gave his consent that Norway should contribute to capacity building in Iraq. Let me first just stress that it has been made clear from the start from the Norwegian side, and in the dialogue and consultations with Stortinget, that Norwegian forces will operate capacity building and not follow into battles and battles. Thus, the mission differs a lot from the way we operated for a long time in Afghanistan, where we also mentored in the field. That's not the idea of this assignment. There is a serious security situation in Iraq. It has been important for us when we have considered how we should organize our contribution. Security of personnel is very important — and also the existence of legal framework agreements ensuring the right to self-defence and the right to wear uniforms and weapons. We've always been clear about that, and we've also communicated very clearly in the good dialogues we've had with Stortinget, that we're committed to ensuring the legitimacy of the contribution we're going to make. This means that Iraqi authorities must have clear ownership and clear control of their own security forces. This means that we need to implement the necessary measures to ensure that the training we provide is relevant and good. Not least, it is always a crucial part of the mission of Norwegian forces to train also in the international rights and human rights of the war. It's been in Afghanistan, it's in other international operations we participate in, and we put great emphasis on it. It also means that we have to have a flexibility in the assignment if it turns out that we can't operate in a good way under the assumptions that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e722	My question is mostly about what kind of security forces we are now going in and learning. Is it the defence minister's opinion that part of the forces we are now helping to learn commit massive violations of war rights and human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e727	Norway has not yet started the training, and that is because it has taken time to establish the legal framework agreements and status agreements for our personnel, so we will gradually build up in the training centres we are going to be present. But we haven't started the training yet. We will continue to assess – as we have also said in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the past – whether we can carry out the mission in line with the assumptions we have made, and then the legitimacy of the forces and knowing how to carry out the mission is an essential part of it. We'll do a necessary and ongoing assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e734	It opens up four follow-up questions – first the representative Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e737	In the VG on March 13th, we could read that IS is being driven out by Tikrit, and that Shia Muslim militias enter the city in search of revenge. It is reported that 30,000 warriors participated in the operation to drive IS out of the city. This group of warriors consists of the Iraqi army in alliance with a number of Shia Muslim militias. It is also reported – albeit unconfirmed reports – that the Iraqi army has bombed civilian areas in Tikrit. Norway shall in the long term send 80 soldiers to Iraq – 50 military instructors and 30 support personnel and staff officers. My question to the Minister of Defence is: Does the events of the last month in Iraq change the Norwegian mission, and what is being done about the changed military situation in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e747	As I said in my reply to the representative Huitfeldt, we – as in all other operations – need to continuously assess whether we can carry out the mission within the framework we have set. Many unconfirmed messages have been received, as the representative Knutsen also said. There are also some messages that have been confirmed, and it is clear that there is a concern for many countries participating in the coalition to enable Iraq to deal with the security challenges itself, that there is both a seemingly worsening security situation in many places, and that it is seen that the Shiamilits operate in Iraq. This is something we follow very closely, and we will use resources to identify the situation in the areas we are going to be present. We will do this together with many other countries, and we will also take our decisions in consultation with other countries operating in the same area. But yet our plan is to participate in the mission as normal. But – as we have said in Stortinget before – we are constantly assessing this in both this and other operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e754	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e757	The centre party has always been skeptical about a Norwegian military contribution in Iraq. Nor does it lack warnings from military experts. The class struggle had e.g. on 31 October last year, an article in which Mr Ulriksen and Mr Lurås warn Norway against sending soldiers to Iraq, that it could turn us into a long-standing war with many actors and get solutions that looked clear and clear. And one sees that the war in Iraq and Syria has evolved in such a direction. Could the Minister of Defense do any good for what kind of analysis was based in the Ministry of Defence before a choice to send Norwegian soldiers to Iraq? And have the arrangements changed significantly in time since the decision was taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e764	We have, as I was at the moment, only sent some staff officers to planning in the relevant headquarters. These include: to ensure that we get the best overview of the situation before we send the bulk of our contributions. It's a completely normal procedure. But it has taken a little longer in this case, because all countries depended on being able to conclude bilateral agreements with Iraq on the presence, and that is what is the basis of international law for our presence. This is a capacity-building contribution, which should enable Iraqi forces to manage safety properly. We're not going into the field, as we've been, for example. in Afghanistan. This means that the framework and conditions for the contribution are quite different from those that have been common, especially in recent years in Afghanistan. But we're making a continuous assessment, also because it's an unbridled image of the actor – it's been all the way. Our assessment has been – and it has also been endorsed by the Stortinge – that it also has a risk of not doing anything and letting a terrorist threat develop in a region with clear transfers to both our national security and European security.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e771	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e774	One crucial reason why SV went against sending Norwegian soldiers to Iraq was the fear that Norway would in practice become a party to a civil war where our allies also have blood on their hands. There are some disturbing messages coming from Iraq, among others. related to the manner in which allied Shia militias approach the civilian population. There are reports of abuses, human rights violations and a kind of behaviour that, in our view, will greatly reduce the political legitimacy of what Norway is now going to do in Iraq. I could therefore imagine hearing the Minister of Defense's views on this very thing, and the extent to which the government has a clear picture of what is right and not right about the various charges now being brought against allies by the government in Baghdad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e781	All the anxiety messages that come into situations like this are something we take very seriously. That's because we're going to send our soldiers to an area that's dangerous, and that's what we're doing and have done for a lot of years. There is a risk in it, and there is a risk of not doing anything, as I said in my reply to the representative Navarsete. Our assessment has been that it is important that Norway, in line with the international community, prepare when Iraqi authorities ask for help. We've based our clear assumptions on how we can solve this assignment. These include: a capacity-building and training assignment – it is not a task where we are in the field and mentoring or are in battle, except if it would be relevant for self-defence. But there's another situation. We follow and monitor the situation very carefully, considering both the unconfirmed messages that are coming, eventually some confirmed messages. We are following political developments closely, for one of the most important things here is that there is clear political leadership in Baghdad, which is in charge of the development of the security situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e790	Rasmus Hansson – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e793	It is the Kurdish peshmerga forces and various Iranian-oriented Shiamilits that have been, it seems, most effective in the fight against ISIL. As many have already pointed out, and as the Minister of Defence has also commented, there are many reports that both the forces of Baghdad and the Shia militia are involved in abuse. So the question is, how will the Norwegian government specifically work to ensure that a Norwegian director’s contribution will be directed at those players that are, first of all, the most effective and, second, the most legitimate in the Sunni Muslim areas where the fight against ISIL is taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e800	We're working on this operation that we're working on with other operations, and it's especially about two things in the phase that representative Hansson asks about. One is close cooperation and interaction with allies, where we will practice and train, among other things. in Erbil, under the direction of Germany, in a training centre. It also means that we have to work well with information acquisition and intelligence, as we do in all foreign operations. It's about the security of our forces, which is the most important thing for the government. It is also about getting as good a picture as possible of what is happening on the ground – the image of the actor, what we can expect, and what makes sense to do more or less of. This is, like most international operations, a dynamic operation and a dynamic image, where things can change along the way, where the image can look different, where the needs can change. We also need to take that into account in our ongoing assessment of how we best perform our mission in order to solve it in a good way. We're going to do that this time as well. It is important for us to contribute with the international community when Iraqi authorities ask, and we still have an intention to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e805	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e817	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Janne Shelmo Nordås to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be taken up by the representative of Willfred Nordlund. Question 3, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e832	This question, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be raised by the representative of Willfred Nordlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e835	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘The income system of the counties changed in the municipal proposition for 2014. The municipality of Nordland is one of the counties that receive greatly reduced appropriations. Nordic countries have major challenges in resolving fast boat and ferry operations satisfactorily for coastal communities. Changes in the income system, even with loss compensation and increased costs related to tenders, make this particularly difficult. Will the Council of State specifically look at, and strengthen, the economy of county municipalities with high transport costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e849	The income system of county municipalities has long been matured for updating. Changes have been notified for several years. When this government updated the income system in its 20l5, the income system had remained more or less unchanged since the 1990s. In addition, the funds allocated to county councils in the context of the administrative reform in 2010 were to be allocated according to the criteria in the cost key. When there is so much time between updating the system, there are some redistribution effects. The government understands that a sudden conversion of the income system may be difficult for the counties losing on the conversion. That is why we have created a separate transitional regime, which ensures that losses – and gains – are phased in gradually over five years. In addition, 185 million has been allocated. kr in compensation for the county councils that are the worst out of the conversion. Of these funds, Nordland has a total of 54.7 million. kr in 2015. The North Norway grant was continued for Nordland, Troms and Finnmark in the new income system. For Northern Ireland, the amount of the subsidy is above 276 million. kr in 2015, or in excess of DKK 1 100 per capita. In 2015, the municipality of Nordland has, based on figures from the aged budget, a growth in free income of 3.5 p.m., and the level of free income per capita is DKK 19 000. It is second highest in the country and more than SEK 7 000 per capita than the national average. Although this is also related to a high level of expenditure, this is a significant amount. SEK 7 000 per capita for Northern Ireland is in the sum of SEK 1.7 billion. kr. I also show that the municipality of Nordland has a solid economy. Net operating surplus is 4.7 pst. in 2014, while it is at 3 pst. the rest of the country, with the exception of Oslo. The county also has a lower debt than the national average. Despite the conversion of the income system, Nordic countries will still have a high level of income, a level of income significantly above the national average. The government is concerned with the entire municipal sector, including municipalities with high transport costs. As regards the financial arrangements for the county municipalities in 2016, we obviously have to come back to that in the municipal bill in May. Here we also want to make a new assessment of the sub-cost key for boat and ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e866	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Business in Nordland traded for 137 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Exports increased by 23 pst. Index Nordland showed that the growth rate in industry in the Nordic countries was calculated before the change to be the second highest in the country over the next ten years. This growth — and continued contribution to Norway’s economy in a wide range — require that the county council be able to carry out the necessary upgrading and maintenance of the transport network. As of 2019, Nordland will, as an example – for there are other counties as well – lose 226 million. kr according to the loss compensation scheme. And based on the answer given by the Council of State, I have to conclude that the government believes Nordland has got and gets too much money. Is it not true that the government actually wants to look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e875	There is a majority in the UK that has adopted the new income system, and it was a job we had to do because the Center Party and the other red-green parties in the government did not take this matter into account. They notified it for years, but they never dared to carry it out. The consequence of waiting so many years is that the redistribution effects are increasing. When you have income keys made in the 1990s, even the Senter Party must admit that a lot has happened since then. This was over-mature. It was necessary. We ensure that Nordic countries continue to receive grants that are well above the national average, 7 000 kroner per capita. It provides the municipality of Nordland with a good basis for providing good infrastructure and offers to both residents and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e882	I can't see that it's relevant that the income keys have necessarily been old. It's true, as the government here points out, that the previous government had the income keys on its table, but you chose to put it away just because of the big results you saw. Based on the latest experience from Northern Ireland, a cost increase of between 40 and 50 pst can be expected. in the upcoming calls for ferry and boat operations. The increase in costs for Northern Ireland alone is between 100 and 200 million. kr. I refer you to my previous post where I mentioned that the loss is $226 million. kr. Then everyone understands that it creates challenges for transportation. Among other things, Højre’s representatives have left a clear impression among several rapporteurs along the coast that one should sort out the imbalances that arose when a new income key was adopted for municipalities and county municipalities – at the latest at the meeting with the northern bank in February. I then ask the Council of State: is this right, or is it such that the parties of the Council of State are dealing with empty words?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e893	The Council of State's party traps always have wise words to communicate both to their colleagues and to business, but I have to admit that I am very impressed that the representative says it is irrelevant that there were cost keys from 1990. Then I almost have to ask if the representative knows what the cost keys are, and what they mean, because this is the whole basis of the income system. You have to admit, regardless of your political position, that society has changed over the course of these 20 years. And when society changes, the cost keys also need to be updated. I understand that it is demanding for a county council when you get a little less transferred, even if you get a lot more than the national average, but you also have to admit that for county councils that over many years have had too little, it is also demanding. It has something to do with the equivalence of services. We will ensure that this system is updated in the coming years as well. We're not going to wait 15 years for the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e904	‘The fishing for salmon in the Tana River Strip is governed by a Norwegian-Finnish 1989 Agreement. There have been renegotiations on the agreement for nearly three years, without this having been achieved. There is cause for concern about salmon populations, as both the Tanavasstrak fishing management and the rapporteurs in Tana and Karasjok have stated. What will the Council of State do to advance the negotiations for a new agreement between Norway and Finland to improve the management of the salmon population in the Tanavas region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e911	I would first like to assure you that I share the concern of the representative, Mr Elvesuen, about the salmon stocks in the Tanava stretch and about the current negotiating situation. There is a broad consensus that the current agreement has led to an administration that is contrary to the requirements for sustainable salmon fishing in Tana. Nor have the interests and rights of the local population been adequately respected. It is therefore very regrettable that we have not succeeded in reaching agreement on a new agreement. The original plan was to set up a new agreement from 2015 onwards, but this was later, at the initiative of Finland, postponed until 2016. However, much has been achieved through the negotiations so far and it should be fully possible to agree on a new agreement with effect from 2017. I believe that Norway cannot take responsibility for the current management of salmon stocks in Tana any longer. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Norwegian negotiating delegation has recommended that a national management of the Norwegian part of the watercourse be better able to take care of the wild and the local population. This investigation is now under the control of my department and the Environment Directorate, and will be completed in a short time. The investigation shall be used to assess whether Norway should terminate the agreement and replace it with a national administration as from 2017. I would also like to point out that the local fisheries manager – Tanavasstraket’s fish management – has requested that the current agreement be terminated. The Sameting and the municipalities of Tana and Karasjok have given similar signals. Our primary goal is, of course, to set up a new agreement as of 2017. There is therefore regular and close contact between the negotiators. I would also like to initiate contacts at political level once this study on national administration has been completed and evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e922	I would like to thank you for your answer and for the clear recognition that the salmon population in the Tanavas stretch is not being adequately protected. There are several side rivers where the stock is critically threatened. I am also pleased that you are now actually assessing whether you need to have a national administration, and that it can produce better results, since the one we now have, does not work. I also believe it is absolutely right to consider cancelling the agreement. But my question is: in order to reach an agreement on one of the issues that are very critical, precisely the quite extensive recreational fishing on the Finnish side, where it is not to limit fishing, but the more consideration of tourism that is in force, is it now time to bring this up to a higher political level, and not wait until all the investigations are carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e931	As I said in my first answer, now we're making that assessment of national government. The negotiators keep in touch and will also assess the need to address the issue at political level. Now I think we have good processes to look at both national administration and the contact between negotiators, so I'm waiting for further signals when there's a need to address it at political level. But that we must now move forward on this matter, I believe the representative of Elvesuen and the Council of State fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e936	Pending the decisions to be taken, and also pending possible agreement between Norway and Finland, we are now in a situation where the main problem is that there are two national states that are unable to agree with each other. Then my question becomes: Until these clarifications, the Council of State will focus on building management and cooperation from the bottom up with different actors — at least on the Norwegian side, but also on allowing local actors to have contact with Finland — for example. by moving on to what we have a budget agreement on, which is the establishment of salmon centres, which is to the greatest extent preferable to be established in the Tanavas Treaty? Will this be something the Council of State can speed up pending the final clarifications?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e941	In the context of the 2015 budget, the size decided on a few additional millions for the management of the wild species, which are maintained by the Namsos Centre, but which also follow up on the salmon population in the Tanavass trek. So it's running. We are now running and investigating national government. We continue the negotiations. But, as I said in my second answer, we will soon have to assess whether we need to make political contact with Finland too, in order that there is a need to do something about the management of the Tanavas line in order to take care of the wild axis there, we fully agree. Now there are different processes going on, and this is closely followed up politically as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e952	This question, from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e955	The question is: ‘The Competition Authority recently decided to approve Coop’s purchase of ICA Norway against 90 of them. 550 stores were sold at Bonnpreis and the Norway Group. This implies that there are only 3 players in the grocery purchasing market in Norway. These control access to the entire groceries market, large parts of the service market with gas stations and kiosks, and large parts of the wholesale household market. Does the Council of State consider that there is good enough competition in the grocery purchasing market in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e964	The competitive situation in the Norwegian food value chain is challenging. The market is highly concentrated, with three food chains fully integrated at wholesale and retail levels. At the supplier level, we also have many highly concentrated markets. Competition in the food industry is important both for government and for consumers. The Minister of Industry, who is responsible for competition matters, is committed to facilitating good and effective competition throughout the value chain. The representative Hansson specifically asks whether competition in the purchasing market is good enough. The daily food chain has over time strengthened its position in relation to the supplier. This need not be negative for consumers. Strong chains that push suppliers at prices can help consumers to obtain reasonable goods. Several structural changes and consolidations that have taken place in the food value chain have been important and correct. These have achieved significant efficiencies. However, in order for efficiency gains and lower purchase prices to be achieved by consumers, there must be good competition between the food chains. Market conditions indicate that the food chain competes with each other. Changes in the market share of operators have occurred. ICA has gone back, while Rema 1000 has grown significantly in recent years. Nevertheless, such a strong concentration in markets, both at chain and supplier level, may hinder efficient use of resources, reasonable prices, availability and product diversity. More input has been made into the value chain for food in recent years, including: from the Food Chains Committee and the Food Law Committee. The government is now considering different measures to improve efficiency and increase competition in the food value chain. The law of good trade is one of several measures we assess. In addition, changes in competition law are considered to facilitate intervention in local markets. I would also like to mention the public body that is now carrying out a review of the market organisations under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. We will come back to the Stortinget with an assessment of these issues, in line with the position of the Economic and Social Committee and the February Review of the Stortinget. The proposal for a Good Trade Practice Act aims to regulate the relationship between suppliers and food chains in order to facilitate more efficient negotiations. The law shall not regulate the outcome of the negotiations. Nor will the relationship of power between suppliers and food chains be affected, in addition to what may result from reduced use of ‘unacceptable’ trading practices. Nor will the law have retroactive effect in view of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e979	I thank you for the answer and appreciate that a law of good trade is being announced, even though the Council of State did a good job to reduce the expectations of what that law might mean. But I am concerned about – and Norwegian consumers are concerned about, or should be concerned about – the quality of food. The situation is that in 2013, Norwegian consumers used approx. Mr 234 B.C. kr for food and beverages. It represents, even though the sum is enormous, just a little bit more than 12 pst. of our consumption costs. At the same time, there are about half as many goods offered to Norwegian consumers in Norwegian shops as in corresponding Swedish shops. It's very easy to see the relationship between that and the fact that we have such an enormous concentration at the purchasing level. The question then is: what will the government do to promote a competition that gives Norwegian consumers greater choice and focuses more on the quality of the goods we can buy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e988	I believe that the representative Hansson is now just illustrating that this is a complex question. In the main issue, the focus was on competition in the purchasing market for groceries, while the representative is now looking at another important perspective, namely the quality and diversity of consumers. I think we have to admit that this is complex, and it also relates to what we as consumers are asking for. We as consumers have great power in the market. If we demand a greater diversity of supply, the grocery stores also need to deliver this. We are now following up in line with the decisions taken in Stortinget. After all, the government has asked the government to propose measures to improve competition and efficiency in the food market. We do that, and we also follow up on the other areas that I pointed to in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e995	The Norway Group now has almost 40pst. market share in the groceries market and accounts for 70 pst. of wholesale sales to mass caterers. Together with Rema 1000, they account for about 85 pst. the sale to kiosks and service stations. In addition to controlling shelf space, this sector is increasingly taking over distribution and ownership in the food industry. Can the Council of State say anything more about how a proposal for a law on good trade practices will address these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1002	It's not natural that I'm answering that question in this questionnaire. This is a question that falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Industry, and since I am answering on behalf of the Minister of Industry, it is not natural for me to go further into those issues. But I know that this is a question that concerns the representative. It's a question that also involves other parties on the Stortinget, and it's a question that concerns Norwegian consumers. This means that there will be good debates in the future, and I am absolutely sure that we will come up with good solutions that can be broadly anchored in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1011	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Due to conflicts and other conditions in the home, some young people get into acute housing problems where they sleep on the sofa with a friend, in a mosque, outdoor summer time and so on. This often leads to them not following up school and becoming drop-outs from high school. Only one part of Oslo recently worked with approx. fifty such cases. They cooperate closely with the school, but are calling for better instruments in matters that are not concerned with child-care failure. Will the Council of State consider whether we need new measures for young people in acute housing crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1020	I thank you for the question. I have also obtained input from the local government minister, because this is at the intersection of several departments. The consequences of living poorly are great. That is why we are going to meet the challenges offensively. The government will strengthen efforts towards disadvantaged people in the housing market, including young people. In 2014, the government presented a national strategy on housing social work, Housing for Welfare. This national strategy shall be a tool for bringing together and targeting efforts towards disadvantaged people in the housing market. The strategy embraces all the housing social work and lasts until 2020. The housing and neighbourhood are an important framework for the growth of children and young people. Therefore, during the strategy period, efforts against children and young people who do not live well should be stepped up. It is the responsibility of municipalities to help disadvantaged people in the housing market. But the state must contribute. A more co-ordinated and coordinated state also strengthens the ability of municipalities to work together. In 2014, the House Bank launched the booklet Not Just Housing, which is an example collection for municipalities and others working with disadvantaged youth. This shows good responses and tools aimed primarily at young people who need more than just housing. 22B is a residence offer in Trondheim where risky young people receive a housing offer with students. The action will include: support from the national scheme against child poverty. There are DUE projects in Bergen and Bodø, where vulnerable young people are given a comprehensive, coordinated and individually tailored offer of close follow-up in their own community. In Bodø, the project is also part of Bodø Foyer, a youth housing service from 16 to 25 years of age, where the aim of the action is for young people within three years of life and housing to have their own housing and jobs, to be in an apprenticeship or in a training course. There are many good examples from all over Norway, and there is no doubt that both I and my colleagues are united on the housing social strategy, and we are therefore taking the challenges associated with the housing situation for young people seriously. I would like to stress that this area of action must also be seen in the context of government efforts for vulnerable children and young people. We know that special efforts related to high-level school drop-outs and work with families with high levels of conflict are also important in the fight against youth. Family protection shall assist families and young people in family conflicts. The representative of Boehler points out in his question that there is no need for care failure when young people cannot or will not live at home. That's right. But it is that in some cases an owner-occupied dwelling is not enough. It is therefore important that the services concerned meet these young people and take the life situation of each young person seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1046	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was interesting, rewarding and informative. I'd like to give you an extra question and some facts. I've had a meeting with high school and people from urban areas in Oslo who are working on this, which is SaLTo coordinators, as it is called. They work with housing measures, and they say it's about young people with immigrant backgrounds, for example, who end up in a cultural conflict with their homes. It may be related to things like alcohol use, such as getting girlfriends with different backgrounds — even against arranged marriages. But it can also be about divorces within more ethnic Norwegian families, where conflicts arise that cause the youth to be thrown out or choose to move. What I want to do is that this is about where-and-what-places. Most of the housing measures we have for young people in Oslo are more things that need to be organised over a long period of time, that is, young people and those kinds of measures. This is about places you need to put in there and then. So the supplementary question is: does the Council of State see a special need here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1055	I am very pleased with the question the representative raises here. It also shows that this is quite complex, and it is important that the municipalities in their work see each individual youth in a whole. There are many good projects in the municipalities, which the representative was also involved in, but we see that we have not been good enough to work together – all that goes on secondary education, what goes on family protection, what goes on at the House Bank, what goes on at Nav. All the instances have to work together. I think that the strategy is much clearer than the municipalities. Then the representative picks up minority youth. Maybe we'll be so honest to say that they're a more vulnerable group than others. Therefore, it is important that minority young people have the same support and the same attention to their situation as other young people. We have also strengthened the provision of housing and support for those who are coercive – we did so in the budget. It's important that we continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1062	I also thank you for a good additional response. In a survey at the major high school I visited, there were 8 pst. by the students who reported that they had these types of housing problems. I was informed that this was a factor they pointed to as important in relation to the drop-out from high school – that the students get a lot of absence, little sleep, do not concentrate on the school, and after a while they are in great danger of falling out. What I want to follow up on is: In the housing social strategy with which the government is working towards 2020, I have understood that more concrete projects will be presented in 2016. Will the Council of State contribute to the fact that the government – I am aware that this affects several governments – is looking at this specific issue, which thus concerns ‘where and where’ and not permanently new housing, because it may be that these young people are going back to the family later?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1071	The strategy put forward by the government in 2014 will last until 2020. Now it's been a little too short to take the great lessons from it. I still think it's important that we go in there and look at what the challenges are out there, and then there's going to be a bet area where the government has to come back to in the individual budget proposals. But what I can promise the representative is that this is a subject on which I and my colleagues agree. It's the first time there's been a strategy that several government councils are behind. As long as that itself is positive. Then I want to draw out: when we're going to see these kids, we have to look at the whole thing. Apart from family protection, counsellors in secondary school, as regards the follow-up service, are those working in the field of individual youth, and also staff in both Nav and Child Protection. You have to see the youth and see what it is like for young people in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1080	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-25.ana.ud2453e1093	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
