ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e51	Before we move on, the President will take the opportunity to wish all the representatives a really good new year, and she hopes that everyone has had a well-deserved and pleasant Christmas holiday. Representatives Marianne Aasen, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Mazyar Keshvari, Geir S. Tuskedal, Eva Kristin Hansen, Per Sandberg, Karianne O. Heavy, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Aust-Agder province: Terje Østebø Eikin For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For the Province of Rogaland: Kari Raustein For Troms County: Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e107	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e110	I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of Ola Elvestuen, Trine Skei Grande, André N. Skjelstad, Terje Breivik, Iselin Nybø, Ketil Kjenseth and myself, to make proposals for increased capacity and frequency in local train traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e133	On March 3, 2014, could become a fateful date that would burn into our nation's consciousness. A 132-passenger sas lighter this day from Kastrup with a Rome course. After a short time, the two pilots received a call. A Swedish military radar had intercepted an unknown aircraft on the route of the SAS aircraft, an aircraft that did not emit signals, and that did not respond to radio calls or were alerted according to any traffic plan. To avoid a catastrophic collision just a few seconds later, the two pilots had to react immediately and change course. The two planes passed each other at a distance of 90 meters, approximately. 50 km southeast of Malmø. It should almost be unnecessary to remember that 90 meters of clearance is a fraction of the internationally accepted minimum limits. The aeroplane has been identified as a Russian military aircraft of type Ilyushin-20 and could not be detected by the SAS aircraft’s own warning system. Due to three lucky circumstances — for the first time, Swedish air traffic control, for the second, good visibility and for the third, resolute action by pilots — a disaster was averted. It is particularly serious that Russian military pilots turn off the transponders of the aircraft and do not talk to the civil air traffic control. A report from the British think tank European Leadership Network, which has investigated against 40 dangerous events from 2014, has classified this episode as one of the three most dangerous throughout 2014. If such a collision had taken place, it would have been inevitable to warn that in the future, the right to take out — if necessary by firing — such unidentified silent aeroplanes would have to be reserved for civil aircraft collision courses. This could in itself lead to an escalation of the level of conflict, with untold consequences. Unfortunately, this episode is not unique. On July 16, 2014, another Russian military aircraft with missiles was, according to witnesses, ten metres from colliding with a Swedish surveillance plane between Gotland and Latvia. The risk of collision with one of Putin's increased number of aeroplanes in international airspace is not only present in this part of Scandinavia. The Russians also test Norway and the defence of our NATO allies by flying north around Norway and down the coasts of Western Europe, for example, on 23 April 2014, when two of the Russians Tupolev Tu-95 Bear bombers flew all the way to the Netherlands and crept the Dutch airspace at a limit of 800 metres. On 3 October 2014, another Russian military aircraft was a few metres away from colliding with another Swedish surveillance aircraft. This interpellance was promoted on 18 November of the previous year and has not become less topical in the past. On December 12, last year, a SAS plane from Kastrup, headed for Poznan in Poland, according to the News of the Day, was hijacked by a Russian military plane, which was put in conjunction with significant Russian military activity over the Baltic Sea at the same time. Here again, the transponders of the Russian military aircraft were switched off. It is difficult not to link this unacceptable behaviour with other provocations, which when two Russian Su-24 bombers planned and targeted on 17 September 2014 entered the Swedish airspace south of Øland to test Sweden’s air defence, and corresponding Russian invasion of the Finnish air territory in August, or not to see it in the context of fingertip attacks on Bornholm, incidentally during the general summer political collection. Similar aviation activities also happened to Cardiff during NATO's summit there. This behaviour is not only threatening Europe’s security, but it is also threatening those parts of Europe that have turned to living with the Baltic Sea as a sea of peace – and what is worse: if this behaviour does not change, it will be a matter of time before a disaster for Scandinavian aviation is a reality. The aim of this interpellation is to draw attention to a danger that is real and has already manifested itself on a number of occasions, and to contribute to an increased public interest in Norway for what is happening, as well as to trigger national and international measures to prevent civilian losses and disasters, thereby avoiding any necessary military response. I therefore look forward with great interest to hearing what the Minister for Defence will say – how she assesses the situation, and what concrete measures can be taken nationally and internationally to reduce a totally unnecessary threat to civil aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e156	I will first take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important and also serious topic. In recent times, there has been a clear increase in Russian flights along NATO's borders. This type was also implemented in international airspace along the Norwegian coast and towards the North Pole. Norwegian fighter aircraft are flying routinely on their wings to identify this flight activity. The defence also monitors the activity of airspace along the Norwegian coast by means of the air navigation radar chain. There has not been any record of Russian invasion of Norwegian airspace after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Russian flights have an aviation safety aspect, but also a safety policy aspect. I will address the aviation safety aspect first. Increased activity in airspace increases the likelihood of adverse episodes and events. The report ‘Dangerous Brinkmanship’ specifies 40 events over a period of eight months during which Russia and Western countries have been involved. The report deals not only with aviation incidents but also with incidents on land and at sea. Two maritime events have been recorded in the north, both related to events in the Barents Sea that do not involve Norwegian vessels. As we know the reported events in the airspace between Norway and the United Kingdom, they did not challenge aviation safety. According to this report, the most serious aviation incidents have taken place in the Baltic Sea airspace. Developments have continued since the publication of the report. It is unacceptable that Russian aircraft create dangerous situations in European airspace and threaten the safety of civil aviation. It is legitimate for the Russian defence, as for the defence of all other countries, to train and train its forces, including to fly in international airspace, but Russia must, like everyone else, deal with international aviation laws and regulations. Russian military aircraft are not subject to Norwegian air traffic rules when operating in international airspace. This means that they also do not have a legal obligation to be in contact with Norwegian air traffic services at such flights. Russian military aircraft do not use the IFF electronic identification system and will therefore not be visible on most civil surveillance systems. Military radars are not dependent on IFF and will therefore be able to detect these flights if they are within radar range. In 1990 Norway and Russia concluded a bilateral agreement to ensure ship and aircraft navigation safety from the armed forces outside the territorial waters. The agreements specify, inter alia: activities outside the territorial waters representing a danger to shipping or to flights shall be notified. In addition to providing NATO with two F-16 aircraft on QRA standby, Norway has good situational understanding in our neighbourhoods. An important contribution to aviation safety is to ensure that cooperation between the Defence and Civil Aviation Authorities is good, including the functioning of the necessary exchange of information to civil aviation authorities. The feedback from civil aviation authorities is that cooperation works well. But I'm always open to see if we can deepen this cooperation better to strengthen aviation safety. I will now also address the security policy aspect related to the Russian activity we are witnessing. The year 2014 may remain as a time gap in European security policy. The year has brought about major geopolitical changes. Russian violations of international law in Ukraine and the tensions that have arisen between Russia and Western countries in the wake of the crisis have shown that fundamental contradictions of interest characterise Europe. Russia has shown the will and ability to use military power over a neighbouring country in order to promote its national interests. Significant uncertainty has been created about Russia's intentions as an international actor. Russia’s global military activity has increased in the last eight to ten years primarily as a result of increased resource availability in terms of money and material. Russian submarines and surface vessels sail more and more. Russian strategic bombers have been observed from Portugal to the North Pole. In our neighbourhoods, we see the perhaps most marked increase in Russian military activity in the Baltic Sea region. NATO’s QRA – Quick Reaction Alert – in the Baltic States has carried out more than 100 missions against Russian aircraft in 2014. This is three times more than in 2013. We see more and more aggressive flights as well as airspace cuts across both Finland, Sweden and Estonia. We also see more sailing, more exercises and increased test activity. The last time, heavy strategic bombing planes across the Baltic Sea can be read as nothing but a demonstration of power from the Russian side. The situation in our northern neighbourhoods is different. We haven't seen a significant increase in Russian military activity so far. In 2014, QRA in Bodø carried out 49 missions with 74 identifications. The corresponding figures for 2013 and 2012 were 41 missions and 58 identifications and 41 missions and 71 identifiers respectively. At the same time, flights, sails, exercises and test activity in the north are characterised by increasing quality and complexity. Increased Russian military activity comes after a period of deprioritising the Defense in the 1990s and early 2000s. By 2020, Russia is planning to double the appropriations allocated to military material in relation to what was used during the previous decade. The total amount of national defence appropriations is expected to be 4.2 pst. of GDP in 2015. The northern regions continue to play a major strategic role in Russia. This is due to the area's function as base and area of operation for submarines carrying intercontinental ballistic nuclear warheads. The Russian forces in the northern regions are in the process of being fed new and upgraded materials, such as air protection, fighter aircraft and helicopters. This, combined with the creation of an Arctic command and Arctic brigades, could lead to increased Russian activity in the northern regions of the coming years. Russian response capability and strategic mobility have been significantly improved. This means that the alert time for military construction is greatly reduced. It has major implications for predictability and security in our neighbourhoods. That Russia chooses to project power, as we have witnessed in particular in the Baltic Sea region in the fall, has a destabilising effect and is therefore very unfortunate. Our assessment is that at present Russia does not pose a military threat to Norway. Norway and Russia have a number of conflicting interests in the north. We both depend on stability and predictability in our neighbourhoods. Norway, like our allies, has suspended bilateral military cooperation with Russia, but we are continuing our cooperation with Russia on search and rescue, on border guards, on coastguards in the north. The contact between the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters and the North Fleet is also maintained. One of the main reasons why it is precisely to avoid misunderstandings and to have a contact that can help situations descale rather than escalate. The main aviation safety challenges take place over the Baltic Sea. There is limited scope for the defence to contribute in this area in order to enhance aviation safety. In the northern regions and along the Norwegian coast, the Defence Force will continue to exchange information on military aviation movements with civil aviation authorities and maintain our preparedness at a high level. Developments in Russia have a major impact on Norwegian security and defence policy. The importance of maintaining the ability to follow the development of Russian military power is essential. It is essential to ensure good situational understanding. Our military presence in the north, both nationally and together with allies, will continue as an important priority from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e190	I would like to thank the Council of State for an interesting and satisfying answer. It is reassuring that we share the situation analysis. This has potentially quite serious consequences if there is not also a better international order for how to act in a narrower international airspace – the airspace is the same, but because of traffic it will be more urgent. The councils probably keep their words when she also says, ‘Our assessment is that at present Russia does not pose a military threat to Norway.’ However, we have to say that Norwegian foreign policy does not only define Norwegian interests related to Norwegian territory. I understand that the Ministry of Defence might think more geopolitically, but in general we would also say that Norwegian interests are at stake. The two episodes I have mentioned, which have been serious, and which relate to international aviation, directly affect a company in which the Norwegian State is a shareholder. Worse still, the SAS aircraft, at least for the close traffic of this part of Europe, carry Nordic citizens, Scandinavian citizens and Norwegian citizens. So Norwegian interests and Norwegian lives are threatened by such behavior. Therefore, it must also be built on civil instruments, not just military ones. That's not what I really see either, that you just have the military insurance – it's supposed to be okay too – but we shouldn't leave anything out of the question because we also have to go through international aviation organisations, where we develop common rules, conduct of behavior, and, of course, legal rules, make it so that every nation has to account for its aircraft. It may not be the case that the most dangerous aeroplanes are those to be able to switch off the identification signals. It would be as if all of us other drivers in the traffic were required to drive on the motorways with light, while the large cars – the trucks and the trails – were not. We have to contribute to an international legal order, and I hope that the government in its further work on this also involves the Ministry of Transport, because here it has to do a part of civil, joint international aviation organisations, so we are just preventing such potentially major disasters from having military aftermath. There is also some of the important things that are important to prevent that there will be an escalation of the conflicts we otherwise have in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e206	Thanks to the interpellant for the additional points. As the interpellant is quite right, much of this has to be resolved primarily through civil channels as well as through international aviation authorities. I still believe, although I was very ready to emphasize in my post that we are not now considering Russia as a military threat to Norway, i.e. from a military point of view, that both the government and I have been very clear about stressing that the year we now have behind us, for seriously has shown that the Russian defence has gone from being what in old days was described as a great cause – it was able to do great damage, but was often upresis and slow – to what we see today: a Russia with a much faster and faster weapon and a larger toolbox, which provides more military options. We cannot be blind to that, and we must take into account in our policies and in our formulation of Norwegian defence and security policies that there may also be situations where conflicts can come to our neighbourhoods. We do not see those situations today, and we see no military threat from Russia today. But we have to plan in a long-term perspective that we now have a permanently changed security policy situation in our neighbourhoods and in our surroundings. Then there is the aspect that the interpellant addresses with aviation safety – not only flight safety, but real safety for both at sea, to land and to water as a result of an increased military activity that disrupts civil activity – a very important but also quite new theme, precisely because the activity has increased so dramatically. As I mentioned in my introduction, the activity has been mostly over the Baltic Sea region, and our neighbours Sweden and Finland are well aware of it. Our allies in NATO, the Baltic countries, are very well aware of this. And I also notice when I talk to my colleagues, whether at ministerial meetings or in other contexts, that for the Baltic countries this is an existing issue. They feel a threat, they feel the story coming back, and we have to take seriously as an ally that this is something that, through our alliance, we are going to help to calm down as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e215	Thanks to the interpellant who addresses this important and serious topic. We all agree that the episodes Europe – including our country – has experienced with the Russian planes are very provocative and not least unpleasant. But there is nothing new – this has happened for many years. When this happens in parallel with the tense situation in Ukraine, probably these episodes interpellant mention in their interpellant, are perceived as somewhat more demanding and threatening than similar episodes through the Cold War and up to today. The new thing this time is that episodes where military activity seems threatening to civil aviation are worth focusing on. It's serious, and I agree with the interpellant and others who say it's unacceptable and not least fatal. There is no political disagreement about what and how we should react when this happens – as the Minister of Defence explained here today. Norway – including NATO – reacts very clearly to Russia. One of the measures is to send our planes into the air. And as a small apropos, many of us realized that something important was in fermentation when two of our F-16 planes broke the sound wall in my home country a few days before Christmas. And it's narrow -- literally. But we should not be surprised that Russia – like many other countries – is upgrading and modernising its defence capabilities. We do the same – both by land, by sea and by air. Purchasing and modernising our defence will enable us to meet military challenges both in peacetime and in wartime. The use of our aircraft has always been important when we feel that Russia's aircraft is getting too close, as the Council of State stated. With our location as a NATO member, we have a special responsibility to monitor what is happening in the northern regions. That's why we need more flights, not fewer. We cannot accept a reduction in activity which means that we do not have oversight of the northern sea areas – both in the air and in the sea. Our allies expect us to discharge our responsibilities here. We will continue the modernisation of Defence in order to strengthen our ability to uphold sovereignty if it is threatened. A real threshold defence provides stability and predictability. Our intelligence must have good knowledge of the activity in the north. There is therefore a need for increased presence and monitoring — as the Council of State did — of our sea areas both above and below water, but also for an overview of what is happening in the airspace is important. This interpellation is a good example of that. In our opinion, the expression and the message ‘we see where you are’ will lessen rather than increase the tension between our two countries. I disagree with those who suggest that we might face a new cold war. I therefore agree with the Council of State when she says that Russia is currently not a military threat to Norway. To that end, we have too many common interests and very important cooperation in areas that are important to both countries. Not least because of this, it is important to maintain a good dialogue with Russia at a time that is very challenging for Europe. In other words, we must not underestimate the dialogue as an important measure in an attempt to dampen the increased tension that many people feel today. At the same time, however, we need to be clear when we experience an increasing Russian strategic exercise in our neighbourhoods becoming too close – not least in the field of civil aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e243	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very serious and important matter. The increased activity we're seeing now, it's important to be vor-beware of. In Norway, we have not yet recorded serious incidents involving civil aviation, but as the interpellant described, there have been serious incidents involving Russian military aircraft in our neighbourhoods and neighbouring countries, especially in the areas around the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. Russian aircraft along the Norwegian coast is nothing new – that's something we have decades of experience from. One of the most important things we can do in Norway is therefore to ensure optimal air traffic services for civil air traffic. There is no doubt that the Russian flights are creating the serious incidents, but when the risk is present, it is important that civil aviation can be fully aware of and up-to-date with the activities that are nearby, so that the necessary precautions can be taken. It is therefore important to ensure that both the Air Safety Authority, Defence and Air Traffic Services have the necessary resources to adequately monitor Norwegian airspace. It's my clear impression that the government is providing just this. As the Council of State said, these events also have a security policy dimension. The question was discussed at several meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly last autumn. Many Member States, particularly in the Baltic region, are concerned about the current activity, with increased frequency and lack of respect for the international conventions. So there are not only questions about an increase in the number of flights, but also about the way the flights are operated: you don't send in your flight plans. You don't communicate with civil air traffic control centres. You don't turn on the radio stations. This poses a risk to civil aviation. NATO has warned European air carriers of the threat to airspace above the Baltic Sea and near the borders of Sweden and Denmark. According to NATO, dark flights – as they are called – that have not activated transponders are an increasing problem. Several Russian military aircraft fly where it suits them, regardless of other civil aviation. The interpellant mentioned that just before Christmas a Russian military plane was discovered on the same course as a civil passenger plane that had just taken off from Kastrup at Copenhagen. The Swedish authorities concluded that this military aircraft had shut down the transponder, which communicates which aircraft and which nation it is about. This is just one of several episodes. Military aeroplanes may switch off the transponder in international airspace as long as they take into account other civil aviation. It cannot be said to be the case for the Russian flights. None of the Russian military planes now operating in northern Europe have sent in any notice of where and when to go and fly. Furthermore, there is reason to note that both Sweden and Denmark have called in the Russian ambassadors in the two countries to give Russia a warning. In December, Sweden’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, Margot Wallström, said the following about the importance of complying with the applicable rules: It's time to respect the trust-building agreements that were built after the cold war. Following the Russian suspension of the CFE Agreement, also called the Vienna Treaty on Disarmament, it is worrying that events can now be seen that can contribute to undermining the Vienna document and the Open Skies Agreement. International agreements are available to be respected. By challenging them, you lower the threshold for the use of military power. This is strong and clear speech from our neighbouring country and expresses concern. It is totally unacceptable not to respect agreements that you yourself have been involved in, thus creating uncertainty about the safety of international airspace, with the risk of accidents and loss of life. Both Norway and Russia, together with the EU and the United States, are associated with The Treaty on Open Skies, which is a regime for non-armed observation flights in the airspace of other countries. The aim is to strengthen mutual understanding and trust between the participants in the agreement. It is one of the most comprehensive arms control regimes to date. The agreement has existed for 20 years. Such agreements are important to maintain trust between our nations and show that we have been able to be open to each other before. That must also be the objective for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e274	Let me also first thank the interpellant for an interesting and factual interpellation, based on information and concrete events. That's why it also makes itself extra interesting. I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for his commitment – that more than the members of the Foreign and Defence Committee are engaged in defence and security policy. That's very good. Most of it's said, and I guess there's a very large and broad consensus here in the hall on these questions. Nevertheless, it is good to discuss them. But the fact that we have to be on guard, as the Minister of Defence also said, is quite obvious. A wounded bear, who also has a wounded pride, can be very unpredictable. It is also important that Norway coordinate our monitoring work with NATO. That we constantly coordinate there has been a bit out of the debate – there has not been so much said about it. At the same time, I would like to stress that we also need to tone down the rhetoric associated with different events. It is also important, as the Council of State said, to stress that Russia does not pose a military threat to Norway, but that they can threaten civil aviation, which the interpellant had to face. It is also important that Russia relates to the rules on international aviation. It's a demanding balance. But we also have to try to get involved in the Russian thinking. Russia obviously has a great sense of isolation, not least after the end of the Cold War and NATO's expansion. The Council of State was concerned that there was an increase in activity in the Baltic Sea region in particular. It's a power demonstration. Without doing any analysis here and now, I think it would be wise to actually do an analysis of the purpose of this demonstration of power, except that it is a demonstration of power. I have not, either in the media or elsewhere, been given any clear signals about, or some very clear analysis of, what is the background for Russia to do what they do, except that there may be more domestic policy than it actually is foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e287	I would like to thank the participants for an interesting, factual and informative debate. I have also noticed that several of the speakers have pointed out that this has been a timely topic to address. So, of course, there'll be nuances in what you care about. I'm never against trying to see the world from a different perspective than what you represent. At the same time, it has probably also emerged quite clearly from the speeches, also from the Minister of Defence, whom I fully share, that there are some minimum standards for how to act in an international society. So it's an apology that's saying that here we're guilty on all sides, and NATO is expanding. That's not how you can build on international legal conditions, because after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the sovereign states that are completely sovereigns emerged to be part of the foreign policy and defence-policy events they see themselves serving. They may have had some historical experience of seeking closer contact with the Western cooperation organisations, whether of an economic, legal, political, commercial nature, which the EU represents, or there were defence alliances. What we have to be careful about here is, of course, that these guarantees apply – I hope they will never be applicable – but this is also what makes us not able to accept that, under invoked nationally wounded pride, some should have different codes of conduct for their international behaviour than those resulting from peaceful coexistence between sovereign states. As a small country in this area, Norway must be just one of the perpetrators not to apologize, but to inculcate what is acceptable behaviour and what is based on international law. I don't think we disagree on that, but I would have said that anyway, so that you don't become too philosophistical and forged with groundless hope as an alternative to some of these problems, which actually have to be solved through political action, through dialogue – yes – but also with a considerable sense of reality. I'm glad to feel that our Minister of Defence represents it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e298	I will join in the last post of the interpellant and link some comments to what has been made in the other posts. The representative Simensen was concerned with the activity and presence in the north. It's also the government very much concerned about it. It's very important that we maintain an activity that over the year has represented a normal state. That means that our situational understanding is also built up over the years, and that once again means that it's easier for us to identify what's a kind of normal activity, and what's abnormal activity. It's a significant contribution to not only our own, but also the alliance's understanding of the situation, which it's important that we contribute to. We will also continue to modernise the defence. As the representative Simensen is well-known, we have now asked the Chief of Defense for a new professional-military council by 1 October this year – that is, among other things. Based on the changes we see in our security policy environment — and we have set up an expert group that will also be involved in this problem complex. This is to ensure not only an operational capability today, but also that we arm the Defence and Norway for the future. With regard to the comments that Mr Halleraker made in his speech, I very much agree with them, and I am pleased that, although there is a serious situation, this is also a subject that NATO parliamentarians are discussing diligently. It is also a topic that is widely discussed at the NATO ministerial meetings. I believe that one of the most important things we can do on the defence side is just to help see the civil air traffic service can't see, because they don't have radars that can catch aircraft that don't have on the IFF. There's the cooperation as said well, but I'm always open to further developing that cooperation if it's needed by civil aviation authorities. For the time being, we have not received any enquiries about it, but if we do, it is obvious that we will be open to make assessments of it. Finally, we have witnessed major geopolitical upheavals in the last year. There is no doubt that the main elements of this development are a more self-reliant, more military-capable Russia, which creates uncertainty towards its neighbours, both the close neighbours and the somewhat further away. We have seen the modernisation of the Russian military forces and the willingness to use military power to care for their national interests. It is a development we cannot close our eyes to, because it affects us in different ways, although Russia is not considered to represent a military threat to Norway at present. The fact that we have a large neighbour in the east has always been a dimension of Norwegian defence and security policy and will be so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e311	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e327	Last year there was a 70-year mark for the liberation of East Finland. Through it many eyes were directed to the north, and many were shaken by the stories that were told, both because the war had a completely different character in the north and because the encounter with people who lost everything, the entire community that was burned, and the people who were evacuated make a strong impression on most. But there is also another thing that has shaken people, namely their own ignorance and lack of knowledge about their own and our country's close history. Why haven't I heard about this before? This is a question that has been repeated often in the last year, preferably followed by: Was it really like that? The brutal burning and forced evacuation of Finnmark were among the worst events of World War II in Norway. Nevertheless, this part of the story is in danger of going into the forgetbook, both because many go out of Norwegian school without any particular lessons about the war in the north and because the last ones that can tell are drawing on the years. My grandmother, who turns 99 this year, has told me how she finally got out of German captivity because she was going to be born. Highly pregnant, she was among the German soldiers. Not everyone has older people who can tell from the war, nor do they all have just as easy access to the solid knowledge that lies in, for example. The Repatriation Museum in Hammerfest and the story of the part of the country which they communicate, or, for that matter, the Borderland Museum in the Churchnes. Although many have made an important effort to tell their own history through the description of the war years – and it is clear that these are tales that it costs to communicate – and not least the efforts of historians and communities, the total history of the north of Norway is still an open hole. The school community also needs more starting points for communication. It gives us a responsibility, for all experience shows that those who don't learn from history are unfortunately more often at risk of repeating it. A person who has no more experience than his own years will always be poorer than a human being who learns from our common history. That is why I am today raising the question of how the government will ensure that the history of the Northern Norway war is also made known to future generations. That's the last hour of the question. The Nordic people are known for being hardy and persevering, to endure a lot. It also had the resistance struggle in the north. Ordinary people risked a lot by showing resistance and participating in activity that could weaken the enemy. Many hidden Russian prisoners, many smuggled food, many participated with their own, with what they could. Some stories are better known than others. In the last year, the NRK has made a formidable effort to show, as a government channel, how, through a story, it can communicate the national glue through documentation and the emergence of unknown narratives. Among other things, they have familiarized us with people and resistance, with events in the north, for example. the resistance group on the South Island, which was especially known for its female shooters and soldiers. Alta battalion was the first to wage a war defeat on the front of the Narvik area in Nazi Germany. When the war was over, the Northern Norwegian forces became an argument for being deflected rather than honored. The authorities, with the support of the so-called Etings Committee, considered that the war veterans from Alta battalion were so accustomed to just harsh and deplorable conditions that they were therefore not entitled to a military pension. Also in the case of distinctions and medals, there seems to be a distinction between north and south, between those who have been seen and those who have been lost. Obviously, this hangs in the hope, because a story that is not told is not so easy to do either. And some stories were extra important to lie down. The partisans are war heroes who were pushed into the cold and into the shadow when the story was to be written by the official team. They didn't fit in. Communist fear caused people who had faced a heroic and invaluable effort to be suspicious and misguided. His Majesty the King has lamented the treatment of the Partisans. We're happy about that. I had hoped that a special thanks would come to them during the anniversary of their release last year. It didn't happen. However, in the context of the national 70 year mark-up this year, it is high time that the state – in an unambiguous way – provided real support for the efforts of the partisans for our common freedom. I also wonder what initiative the government will take to honour the Nordic efforts during the war in particular. Even though it's been 70 years since the release, there's still a lot of wounds that haven't grown, that haven't had enough air to heal. A trauma that is not processed is at risk of inheritance, because bad experiences put their mark on it. Violence and Nazi siege give a nation lasting but, but also after freedom was a fact, many have had bad experiences, for not only are bombs responsible for lost childhood. Many of the so-called russians, the so-called Germans, and the so-called Communists grew up in the postwar years that few can imagine. At the same time, actions by official teams provide a basis for attitudes among people. Especially bad is it when the heroes of the nation become someone's perpetrators. When the 2nd Mountain Company arrived in Finnmark just after the liberation, they were shaken over how close German soldiers lived their lives on the local population. It was obvious that they didn't know the community they came into. Half of all German soldiers were stationed in Finnmark; it's clear that they moved into the houses of people, that they had to live side by side. When the rock company arrived, they took morale into their own hands – and it was also used to shame several Norwegian, Sami and female women living in the north, and there are also stories of assault that were committed. Unfortunately, the archives are corrupted, but this does not mean that there is no documentation of the damage. I had hoped that the Prime Minister, during his participation in the marking of the liberation of East Finland last autumn, would make an official complaint to those who were exposed to events that could be traced back to Norwegian national interests in their time. We know that women are particularly vulnerable to conflict, and we had an example here of how they are also held responsible for the honor of the nation. It is important to complain about the harassment of women who happened, carried out by Norwegian soldiers and officially, and therefore I wonder: How will the Council of State ensure the uprising of women who were hanged and harassed? I'll end by saying that it's always important to look forward. But it's so much easier to have looked safely stuck in the future if you have your past with you in the luggage, and that's what this debate is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e357	I want to pay tribute to the representative Bergstø to address an important question, which also occupies the Ministry of Defence strongly. We recently indicated that it was 70 years since the liberation of Finnmark. It will also be duly marked for the anniversary of release on 8 May of this year. The events in the north are part of our war history that has not received the attention they deserve. Now it's high time to make sure it gets better known and recognised. The forced evacuation and burning of Finnmark and Nord-Troms in 1944 caused thousands of people major suffering. This has been referred to as the worst accident that hit Norway during the occupation, and the biggest disaster in Finnmark since its black death. Large areas were completely burned down or partially destroyed. The reason was the German withdrawal from Finland, which went west through Finnmark. Hitler ordered that the population in the area be evacuated with power, and that all houses east of Lyngen be destroyed. The Soviets were not to benefit from Finnmark's infrastructure or local knowledge. Nor would the Norwegian London government be able to establish itself in the void that remained after the Germans. In West Finland and North Troms there was little or nothing left after the German army. Of Finnmark’s population at the time, 60,000–70,000 people were driven out about 2/3. Of these, about half had temporary residence in Troms and Nordland, while the majority of the others settled in the troms and the east. Those who opposed deportation had to be covered. Many thousands of people found shelter in the vicinity of their homes – in caves, in dens and under boats. They didn't have much more than what they stood and went in. It's hard to imagine the suffering these people had to experience. After the liberation in 1945, they wanted to evacuate again. However, the authorities would like this to take place gradually as homes and other infrastructure were restored. My father was also very large in many places. Many, however, traveled back and suffered in dire conditions during the first winter. The repatriation took place more seriously in 1947 and became time-consuming. The population of Finnmark and Nord-Troms had difficult living conditions for many years after the war. There were contradictions and divisions in many communities both during and after the war. This happened all over the country and can be noticed several places even today. The treatment of the so-called German girls is a dark chapter in Norwegian history. Norwegian women who had engaged with German soldiers, or were unjustly accused of having done so, were harassed in the days of liberation by individuals, soldiers, police and the Homefront. They had not committed a crime. Nevertheless, they were stamped by popular opinion as traitors. Many were mistreated and subjected to hair clipping, harassment, violence and shenanigans. We do not know exactly who organised and carried out these actions, but probably both the local population and representatives of the Norwegian authorities were involved to a greater or lesser extent. Today, of course, we ask ourselves how this could happen. The treatment these women received was unworthy. It was characterized by a woman's vision that we have fortunately left. They were held responsible for depriving the nation of its honor. It was a completely meaningless generalization of guilt and shame. Such behavior cannot be defended regardless of what the individual woman had done. In some places, responsible authorities stopped the attacks. Elsewhere it advised indifference. The actions and inaction cannot be undone, but I take a strong distance from the treatment the women were subjected to, and encourage that the knowledge of this is not forgotten. And to link a special comment to women, who were also interpellant about: In South Island, more than a thousand people hid. The rescue force consisted of both men and women. Norwegian women were in battle with the Germans and were decorated for it. The Ministry of Defence has an ongoing history project that analyses the efforts of women in particular during the war and assesses whether any of these have been treated unfairly for decorations. This is a very traumatic chapter in our history. Still, we can't lean back and take for granted that it can't happen again. The course of history shows that we can never take peace for granted. The last year's events on the international arena have given us a reminder of that. The security policy situation has become more demanding. We are facing serious challenges in Norway's and Europe's neighbourhoods, which may have consequences for our security. This year we show that it's been 75 years since the attack on Norway and 70 years since the release. Through a wide range of events, we will show that the war covered all sectors of society and affected the entire population. 75 years in a historical context is very short time, and the atrocities that happened at that time must never be forgotten. In addition to a wide range of local markers, the five priority national markings in this year will be the Holocaust Day on 27 January, April 9 in connection with the attack on Norway, May 8th will be the events of the liberation and veto day throughout the country, May 28th the liberation of Narvik will be marked in 1940, June 7th the King and the Government will have to leave the country on this day in 1940 and returned on the same date in 1945. It is important that we draw attention to our common war history through such markings. In addition, we need more research on World War II. The government has therefore decided to set up a gift professorship on this epoch of our history. That's set at 4 million. kr annually for this over a five-year period. One of the thoughts of the professorship is that there should be a contribution to making sure that history is not forgotten, and that we get a new insight into our close war history. We're going to use new and possibly up to now inaccessible sources. The Norse war story will be an important part of this. In 2015, we will also seek to recognise all those who made an effort during the war and who are still alive. We are now in the process of instituting a commemorative medal, which can be awarded to both civilian and military, Norwegian and foreign, who made a special effort during the war. It may be distributed by local authorities, including: in the case of markings relating to the anniversary of release. We also consider the possibility of decorating those groups and departments that stood out during World War II, and that have by now not received this recognition. Finnmark's war history is perhaps one of the best examples of what war brings on victims, sufferings and loss of human dignity. It should be mandatory for new relatives to read. An important chapter in this story is the efforts of the Partisans. In 2015, a research project under the direction of the Varanger Museum on the partisans and their fate after the war shall be carried out. The project will culminate in a new exhibition at the Partisan Museum in Kiberg, where research-based dissemination of the traumas of a society will also be included. This is a measure that the government follows with interest and looks into. The partisans are gone now, but we can still learn a lot from them and about them. In the long term, this is also one of the best recognitions we can give to these brave men and women who stood up for Finnmark and Norway's freedom. The forced evacuation and burning of Finnmark and Nord-Troms was a disaster in Norwegian history. This is an important part of Norwegian war history. It has led to dramatic consequences for tens of thousands of people for many years. What happened cannot be justified and can not be undone. The events were mentioned in 1985 by King Olav as the greatest disaster ever. King Harald honored the Partisans with his historic speech in 1992. Increased knowledge and more research will help keep the memory of the struggle for resistance and the great suffering in Finnmark alive. The government wants to make its contribution, among other things with great marks throughout this year — which is important for keeping history alive — a gift professor who can reveal new parts of our close war history, and close cooperation with the school sector to ensure that the curriculum objectives set are also followed. We also have, as I mentioned, a history project that is now in progress. It shall end in 2016. We've paid a lot of attention to women's efforts. We also pay a lot of attention to see if there are any people who have not been decorated at this time, who deserve to be decorated. But as both the representative Bergstø and Stortinget are well aware: decorations are always a delicate theme, because you have to be absolutely sure that you decorate correctly. At the same time, it is therefore important that we use resources on historical projects that can reveal whether there are people who have been overlooked or neglected, and whether there are people who have not received the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e391	I think it is very gratifying that the Minister of Defense is so clear about both the importance of conveying the history of the North Norwegian war and the human fortunes and the social tragedies that happened. However, I do miss the clarity on how to do this, precisely because we see that there is a common Norse story missing, and because we see that this is missing as a theme in the everyday lives of Norwegian students. The leading sources really start drawing on the years now. Not everyone has managed to communicate their own story from the war, but many will be important sources in the documentation further, and it is especially important to remember that large parts of the archives have been destroyed. Then it really is one day to thank those historians who have made a great effort to make stories known, and we have several of them. It is particularly gratifying that the Minister of Defence places so much emphasis on women's efforts, which have indeed been neglected and forgotten, and that South Island is being brought forward. This team's best shooter was a woman -- Mary Hustad was her name -- and I think it's important that future generations become acquainted with such hero stories, and that you know that women in war are not only victims but also active resistance people, even though women are particularly vulnerable to war. Then I look forward to the strengthening of the Partisan Museum in Kiberg. I've been there several times myself. I always tend to bring summer guests there and put flowers down. In a closed school, local forces have succeeded in bringing together objects and narratives for dissemination. There really needs to be a rise for that story to come up. But it is not contrary from official standpoint to acknowledge unequivocally the efforts made by the Partisans during the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e404	I thank you for the interpellant's other articles as well. I think there is a broad consensus here in the Chamber that efforts should be honoured and recognised. It's been done to a great extent, but we're now investigating, as I said, whether someone should be honored, who hasn't been, and it's also becoming an important part of the historical work that we're doing in the department. I think it's very important that we do what we can to keep history alive. It's quite right, as the interpellant says, that the time witnesses that are helping to keep history alive today are in a generation that is now, unfortunately, fewer and fewer, and that means that others have to go on with the story. The historians are an important part of this, and the fact that we have now established this gift professorate, I believe is an important contribution to lighting new and perhaps hitherto unknown aspects of our close war history. As I was a little bit into my post, the time that has passed since the war and the liberation, in a historical perspective, is disappearing cards, and we have no guarantee that nothing similar can happen again, although of course we do everything we can to avoid it. I think it's one thing that you often forget in the discussions about war history, and it's that in many cases it was the ordinary, ordinary, people who did things that seem completely incomprehensible to us, and that, among other things. to investigate what makes people capable of committing such atrocities when they would not otherwise be considered to be associated with an organisation or otherwise to be particularly likely to perform such acts. War does something to people, and it does something to the way you think, the way you act, as I think it's important to be aware of. It is in today's curriculum rather overall competence goals. It's been a long time, and that means, for example, that in primary and primary education world wars are not mentioned, neither is it 1814, 1905 or the persecution of Jews for that part, but the students must learn about it. When you move on to higher education, there are more explicit skills objectives, for example: in the World Wars, which is not explicitly mentioned in basic training. I still believe it is a matter of course – and I have also talked a lot about this with the Minister of Knowledge – that this part of the story is an obvious thing that students should learn about, not only in North Norway, but throughout the country. There shall be knowledge of the war and the atrocities of war, of the liberation and of everything that happened to the Norwegian community. The fact that the whole community was so deeply affected over such a long period of time, it is absolutely vital that students learn about even today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e413	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic that is emotionally very strong and intense for many in Finnmark. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank both the inter-pellant and the Council of State for very good contributions in connection with this interpellation. I would also like to thank the NRK, who has communicated in an excellent way what happened in the war years in Nord-Troms and Finnmark on television in the autumn. For those of us who have had and have relatives and acquaintances who were part of what happened during the war years 1940-1945 in Finnmark, it is incomprehensible that in 2015 we still have to fight to get a place in the national war history. I also want to be very clear that my commitment to this matter is not a criticism of the current government – and it should just be lacking. Many previous governments have had the opportunity to do something, and that we are here today is proof that little or nothing has been done. On 24 October 2014, we marked the 70th anniversary of the liberation of East Finland. In his speech to representatives of official Russia and veterans of the Red Army, our dear King Harald used these three words: Norway thanks you. You don't have to say anything more to show your gratitude for the release of the people of East Finland. The liberation of Finnmark was also the beginning of incredible suffering for large sections of the population of Finnmark and Nord-Troms, as the inter-pellant and state councils have been involved in their interventions. To put it slightly in perspective, this area represents one fifth of Norway's total area. It was then realized that this was a great disaster for them. The areas were converted into an uninhabitable no-man's country, and, as it is said, 50,000 people were literally chased away from their homes and got only what they were standing and going in. Among them were my parents and their closeness. Through the NRK series, the rest of Norway could also participate in the traumatic event. Children were born, many died and very many became ill under the very tough conditions it was on the crowded boats that were used. After the war, most of them wanted to go home, and for many, only the chimneys were left on old plots. In Alta, only the churches were spared. That's pretty much how many other places there were, too. I would once again like to thank King Harald for speaking in his New Year's speech about the part of the Norwegian population that has experienced the experience of millions of other people today – being refugees in their own country. So the question is, why is it so important for the people of Finnmark and Nord-Troms to bring this up? For one thing, I think that we who live there have a closer relationship with the war than people else in the country. We all have a relationship with World War II. If we look out of the windows in our homes, we'll see the evidence of the destruction yet today, on January 6, 2015, simply because we don't have any construction that dates from the years before World War II. The war just took a big part of the story from us, and it doesn't make any sense. The two who have made contributions before me have mentioned the soldiers who fought on the Narvik front, Alta Battalion and the Tronder Battalion. They were in direct war with Germany on the Narvik front, how many Norwegian soldiers lost their lives. But when the Norwegian war story is told today, many are disappointed that this important and bloody part of the war story is almost absent in the history books. At the same time, we can read the page up and down about the "boy on the skate" here in the south – not to a lesser extent for them, but we are very many who would like those who participated in the battlefield in the north to have a corresponding place when the Norwegian official war story is told. So far, many people feel that the Norwegian state has done them an injustice by not seeing them. On NRK TV in the fall we met the one surviving soldier from Alta battalion who served on the Narvik front. What he said, with tears in his eyes, was strong and painful: I think the Norwegian state has forgotten us. The more pleasant it is that travelers with Norwegian can see for themselves how the airline honors Norwegian war heroes. One of the characters is Harry Pettersen from Alta. Those who want to read more about what he has done should look up in the history books – if there is one. I'm not sure if it does. I know that the Ministry of Defence – and it was also confirmed by the Council of State here today – is working on this side of the Norwegian war history. I am very pleased that this is happening, and I am very pleased with the signals that the Council of State is giving from the pulpit here today. That is why I would like to end my speech with a request to the Norwegian Government to borrow King Harald's three words – Norway thanks you – as a greeting and thanks to those who feel that their efforts during World War II are not appreciated. It costs so little, but it means so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e441	I would also like to thank our co-representative for raising this issue on the agenda of the Stortinget and the Council of State for a good response. It is also timely that this is done at the first plenary meeting in 2015, at the beginning of the year when we will mark that it is 75 years since the attack on Norway and 70 years since the release. 75 years is short in a historical context, and the atrocities that happened at that time must never be forgotten. But time is running out. Maybe it's also so that all the reactions have to be read precisely from their time, and you might have just forgotten something. We can ask ourselves that. I myself agree with the inter-pellant and the Minister of Defense on the importance of giving all aspects of our war history that attention and the historical light it deserves. That's why it's as correct, as our Prime Minister answered when she got the question from the NRK about the fighting actions in North Norway was little known in the rest of the country: I think it's coming in waves. New generations are coming up and have to learn this again, so that we don't forget, she said. Here, the Norwegian school system clearly has a great responsibility, and therefore it is also so right and good that the government has decided to set up a gift professorship on this epoch of our history. The professorate will be a contribution to making sure that we get a new insight into our close war history, because we still need research on World War II. The professorate will maintain and further develop research efforts related to Norway during World War II and help to understand and interpret driving forces. Such research will also be relevant to our time, not only to give an increased understanding of the different aspects of war, but also – and not least – to build knowledge of the need for our own defence in our own time. As we all know, our Majestys, both King Olav and King Harald, have marked the conditions in Finnmark during World War II. King Olav laid down a wreath in Kiberg at the memorial of the Partisans in 1983 – a recognition of what they had meant – and King Harald put his finger on the course of history and the light of history when, during his mission, he came to Finnmark and in his speech at the party building in Kiberg on August 3, 1992 he said, "It may be painful to have to see history in a new light." He also said, "Let us also use resources to re-understand our own close history." War is suffering, and the victims – despite the international law of war – are not least the most vulnerable in a society, namely the children and women. During World War II many schools in Finnmark and Nord-Troms were occupied by the Germans, with the result that the teaching ceased altogether in large parts of the war. Because the Germans burned down many schools when they retired in 1944, the school situation was difficult even in the postwar period. The following for the generation this went on was serious — just as we worry about the children in Syria and the lack of schooling today. In his New Year speech on 1 January 2000, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik complained about the treatment many war children suffered after the war, and in the summer of 2004, the Bondevik II government opened up in St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04 for the cheap pay of co-workers and women who received inadequate schooling during and immediately after the war. The government then accepted that those who could not Norwegian came out badly. The same big message also opened up for the replacement of war children, i.e. children with Norwegian mother and German father who were treated unfairly. Yes, the disaster surrounding Hitler's burnt soil activity in Finnmark and the North Troms caused thousands of great suffering. We should remember this, both for our own history and not least because today, too, there are people in the world who have to endure the unbearable and suffer such suffering. History repeats itself. It might be moving, but it's repeating. Not long ago, both King Harald, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs were in Finnmark. There was also the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov. As we all remember, it was to indicate that it was 70 years since the Soviet soldiers crossed the Norwegian border and marched against Bjørnevatn and the churches and the liberation of Finnmark. The Russians were then thanked for their efforts during World War II. 'Norway has never forgotten, and will never forget, the great contribution our Russian neighbour made to our freedom as it was most true,' said the King. The alliance during the war and the inter-ethnic community that arose, especially in the north, is an important part of Norwegian-Russian history, our neighbourhood with Russia and our history. I agree with the interpellant that the part of our story we have now raised, must not go into the forgetbook. It deserves our respect, and it must be remembered!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e469	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for lifting an important matter. But thanks also to the Council of State, because I think she gave very many good answers. There is no doubt that the war brought on thousands of people in Finnmark and the insane great suffering of Nord-Trom. One thing is the burning down of Finnmark and Nord-Troms and the forced evacuation, but it is also so that there were few or no places that had more attacks and physical acts of war than just there in the north. This gives cause for concern when we know that both Vardø and Vadsø were bombed down, and that the Church went under the name "Festung Kirkenes". It's actually only Valletta in Malta who had more air strikes against him than the Church's during World War II. In the case of forced evacuation and burning of Finnmark, two branches were saved in East Finland. It was Hamningberg and Bugøynes, because they didn't get the Germans time to burn down. Everything else got blown away. There was nothing left behind. The only thing you saved was the churches. But what I'm most concerned about is the lack of history about what happened in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, which in many ways is completely gone – has been. What I experience on the body, and what I feel is that very many people feel at home on the body, is an arrogance, and that they have been ignored and completely ignored by the Norwegian state. It is a paradox that even though King Olav stated that the burning and forced evacuation of Finnmark and Nord-Troms was the greatest tragedy for the nation after the Black Death, at the same time we see that when Aschehoug publishers describe the war in Norway, the burning and forced evacuation in the north is referred to over seven lines. This gap is huge, and it hurts too many in the north. That's why I would also like to stress that I'm incredibly grateful for the gift professorship that the government is in favour of, for writing the story so that it can stand there forever. If we're going to learn from history, we're going to have to take it further. It may be the most important experience in this debate. But again, I would like to stress the great difference between the King's words and what has actually been Norwegian history until this date – almost said nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e480	We are many in Finnland who have grown up with a great-grandparent regeneration and a parental regeneration that was characterized by having experienced the war, and who throughout the post-war period had the mark of having been responsible for caring under as difficult conditions as it was during the Second World War and in time afterwards. Even I did not understand the trauma that lay there until I spent a year in Lebanon as a young soldier, as a United Nations soldier in the 1990s. There, people who were in exactly the same, hopeless situation, who were squeezed between different powers, and who had little to walk with, but who still had an infinite responsibility. The post-war time in Finnmark did not make this responsibility any easier to bear. I had grandparents who were great tellers, and it has many times struck me that the ability to tell warm stories about the individual, perhaps a German soldier, because they had come close to these people, was there. At the same time, I would go far beyond the limits of parliamentary language if I were to quote them on how they were able to speak of the Germans, the German invasion army and the situation they were in during the war. So they're able to see more dimensions of this. In these days, the Landsvik archive opens, and we will have a public debate that will be both difficult and bad, and that will make us have to ask ourselves whether we can trust the information we get and how we are going to use the knowledge that comes. Many will probably open old wounds, and it will show that this was a very difficult time for very many. But part of what will come out in this archive will show that these were people who made conscious choices, and these were people who have subsequently been through a trial. That's what we're getting to know about. Many of the Partisans were convicted as traitors without a trial. They were convicted as traitors by the establishment of archives through the trade union movement's Church Office, and then lists were created with the names of people who were so communist-friendly that they were considered dangerous. Those people did not have the opportunity to apply for a job in the future. They were condemned to eternal degradation because they had made a conscious choice. As young people, they had made a conscious choice in a war, and then did not suit that choice in retrospect, when history was to be written and Norway was to be governed and rebuilt. That's why the interpellation that the representative Bergstø has lifted today is so important, so it's so important that we take our story seriously, and that's why I'm also happy and satisfied when I hear the Council of State tell you what processes you've started in the Ministry of Defence, how serious you take this and how thoroughly you do the job of writing history when we're going to document it. Even though I grew up with good tellers, and although I grew up in a village where you could walk 1.5 km to the mountains and find an old boat that had been turned and covered with stone and peat, which my grandparents escaped to with their kids – up at night and down by day, to see if the village was there – and even though I had such good time witnesses, I was surprised at how difficult this situation had been when I came to a place where there had been war. Therefore, it is also good that you are on the matter when the representative Simensen and I contact the Ministry of Defence regarding the Alta Battalion, for this is on the one hand about justice and on the other hand about the importance of making these processes fair and correct. There should be no difference when one has been in such a situation, and when one has made such an effort for the nation. And then, unfortunately, the world hasn't gotten any calmer, so having knowledge of how difficult such situations can be, I think it's very important for the generations to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e497	I would first like to thank the interpellant for taking up a very important matter and an important discussion, and I am also pleased with the articles that have come, both from the Minister and from colleagues at Stortinget, good articles that address this. People in North Norway live today in a very peaceful region, and for hundreds of years, the continent has almost not been plagued by war, although we, as in all other areas, can have our internal feuds. The border between Norway and Russia is Russia's oldest and Russia's only border has not been in war. But against this is interrupted from 1940 to 1945, when our part of the country was characterized by the most serious events. The interpellant describes the significance of the coastal people and the fishing fleet for the Russian convoy, where women and men, partisans, play such an important and heroic role. Partisanism in the North Troms and along the Finnmark coast, the way this has been displaced in retrospect, as part of a political game, is a shameful part of Norwegian history. But also many other conditions during the war have been given too little space, perhaps for similar reasons: The attack on Narvik in April, with subsequent campaigns leading up to the first Ally says, Hitler's first loss during the war they fought hard on the Gratang Mountain, when thousands of lives were lost, the heroes and the tragedys that so few have heard of the liberation of East-Finnmark, the only part of Norway that was won back through fighting the terrible burning down and forced evacuation from Finnmark in the last year of the war: 50,000 were forced to evacuate, 25 000 denied, 11,000 housing houses, 4 700 poultry, 106 schools, 21 hospitals, 27 churches were burned down, and 22,000 telephone posts were cut. We have to include this in the referata. Finally, I would like to mention the large prison camps in North Norway, which were responsible for horrific war crimes, presumably also carried out by the Norwegians. Beisfjord was a concentration camp in occupied Norway during the second World War, in line with the well-known camps in Germany and Poland. In Beisfjord, the evening of July 17, 1942, 288 prisoners were ordered to make their stand, 20 and 20, in front of excavated holes where they were shot. A group of prisoners refused to get out of the infirmary, and the buildings were then set on fire. Those who jump out of the windows got shot. In total, 288 prisoners were killed in Beisfjord prison camp night until July 18, 1942. This is one of the time witnesses to the drama that happened in the north, but that we know too little about today. It's not like the past is just visiting us. Fortida is also an important source of learning for the future. The enormous resource potential in the north is an important factor in increasing national interest in the area. In the future, this interest may give rise to conflict and attack, even if it does not appear to be so today. A part of the background of Narvik's attack was just the large mineral resources that crossed ports. Therefore, the Nordic experience of war and peace, of conflict and cooperation, hastens to become more evident. Many of the drama and many of the traumas associated with world history events in the north during the last war are, for example, today unknown to young people because schools, Norwegian films and cultural institutions place too much emphasis on events in South Norway, or have a purely national perspective. This has to change. It is time to bring the painful and heroic history into the light and at the same time use this knowledge into our time. In this work, the Narvik Centre, which was established by the Red-Greens, which is being continued by today's government, is important. The Centre shall be able to lift this history while simultaneously taking action in the service of peace. This means that in the north we get a center in line with the Archives in Kristiansand, the Raftosenteret in Bergen, the Nansencentreet in Lillehammer, the Falstadcentreet in Nord-Trøndelag and, of course, the Holocaust Center in Oslo. I'm glad the government is continuing that work. Nevertheless, this is just meant to be a start to a comprehensive work. The Centre may be an important engine in Nordic networks, institutions and environments working in the same way. In Kirkenes and Hammerfest, we have the Borderland Museum and the Travel Museum that take care of this part of the history, and there are also measures in Harstad and Bodø, not to forget all the local museums. Finally, I believe that the combination of national and Nordic joint effort to travel this part of history is important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e532	I am very pleased with the consensus expressed here today, and for what I believe is a common will and a common desire for both upliftment, documentation and dissemination. History makes us who we are, while it is the material conditions that determine our possibilities to a great extent. That is why I very much appreciate what I see is a clear promise or a desire to document the history of the North Norwegian war for further generations. I also want to use the opportunity today to thank them as every single day doing a very important communication job, because it is done in the museums around. It's done by historians, history teams and history-interested people, it's done to a great extent in the schoolwork -- I remember how great it was when we had the reading of 'Sophie and Kathrine', children's books about the war years in Finnmark -- and it's done by those who tell their stories and their experiences and share them, because it does something to hear the truth from a time you can't necessarily understand. The most important thing about lifting up those women and children who have been subjected to abuses that can be traced back to national interests and broadcasts is not to attribute blame, but to tell a truth that has not been told. The most important thing is not to name those who have done something wrong, but to make sure that those who have experienced the madness of their bodies, in their growth and in their lives, can get the opportunity to finally get up in their full length.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e539	I would first like to thank you for a very good and meaningful debate. As the interpellant also says, it marks a broad consensus on this topic. I would like to take the opportunity to highlight some of what I concluded my main post, namely that this is part of Norwegian history and Norwegian war history – this is not just a Northern Norse war story, but it is part of our entire close history. I am pleased with the good dialogue that has been with both the representative Simensen and the representative Bakke-Jensen attached to Alta battalion and the discussions around it. This is a work that we're also going to engage in in in the future. Alta battalion is one of the highest decorated departments after the war, but at the same time you can never guarantee that everyone has received the recognition they're going to have. We had over 100,000 active people who participated in Norway in various ways. Clearly, many of the medal distributions and decorations that have taken place are based on historical data, documents and documentation. Because as I was a little bit into my post: Almost as bad as not to decorate correctly is to decorate faults. That's something we have to take with us. Then I would like to make a few comments about two things that the representative Mr. Kåre Simensen and the representative Mr. Jan-Henrik Fredriksen so aptly said. Simensen said that the war took a large part of the story with him, and Fredriksen said that we should learn from history, we must take it further. I very much agree with both, and that's exactly why I believe that the markings we're going to have in 2015 are becoming so important to bring forward our close history and war history. I therefore believe that the government's gift professorship has established, is also important, because it can help to shed light on our war history and perhaps new pages that we do not know about today. We can contribute to the dissemination of a historical page of Norway that we have not had occasion to do in the past. Not least, I believe that through the historic project, through the creation of a memorial medal that can be awarded to both civilian and military Northmen and foreigners who made a special effort, now in the context of local markings – in addition to the larger decorations that we always have an eye on – we will together help keep history alive for new generations. In a historical perspective, we're talking about a very short epoch, and we can never take the peace for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e550	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e566	In order to meet the challenges facing our society in the future, we need people with different skills. We need good engineers, mathematicians, realists, socialists, state scientists and historians. We need economists, teachers and nurses, and we need not least good trade union workers. We need more skilled workers – health professionals, carpenters, electricians, plumbers and others – in the future. But it seems that we may be lacking such competence and such labour in the decades to come. Printouts from the Statistical Centre show that we may be lacking as much as 160,000 skilled workers as by 2030. There are only 15 more years left, and there may be major challenges for industry, for different service industries and for other parts of private business and for different public enterprises. This is a serious challenge. We need to find solutions that ensure that more people choose vocational training, that more people want to become skilled workers, and we need to make sure that more than today complete this course. The share of vocational education and training has fallen in the last ten years, and there are too many who fall away and who end up without formal competence in the form of a letter of formal qualifications. It is a challenge for society, missing skills that we need, and it can quickly become a problem for individuals because there are fewer and fewer jobs that do not require formal skills, and thus many of these young people are at risk of being out of work. We have to ask ourselves why it has become like this. Some people talk about our society suffering from «master's disease». I think that's a bad idea. It's not negative that many in our society want to take higher education. It's valuable. But there are still some things we have to take care of. One thing is that we dimension education provision as much as possible in line with society's needs and the labour market of the future. Another thing is that it must not be that it is only the academic education that is valued. Professionals must be brought up and the status of skilled workers must be increased. In Christmas I spoke to a craftsman who had chosen to retrain himself. He said about himself: I was just a simple tradesman. I had to ask him if that was really how he looked at himself. Then he replied that it was not, but that was how he felt that many others looked at him. But there is in no way anything simple about being a tradesman – on the contrary. That's why we need to work to strengthen the reputation of professionals. Then there is not enough talk in itself. We also need to solve some challenges related to vocational education. One important thing is to meet the need for learning places. We know that many people have problems getting a place to learn, and that that's one of the reasons for the big dropout. If we got more companies and public enterprises to hire apprentices, more people would have completed education. This would also have a positive effect on recruitment, because if choosing a profession is perceived as a career risk sport, there is probably some thing that would hesitate to make that choice. But if it is felt as a safe way to get formal skills, get into work, contribute positively to society and start making money, it will help make more people want to go that way. The government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left have already done something. We have increased the apprenticeship grant, and we have increased the support for new apprenticeships. This is a step in the right direction, but it has to do more. We see that there are great variations from state to state to what extent you succeed in obtaining learning contracts. So maybe we should do that, for example. look at what they do in Rogaland, and try to find out why they succeed better than they do in Eastfold or Westfold. I think it's not just about the business they have in Rogaland, but also a little about attitudes and culture and some practical steps that have been taken. In Rogaland, companies and relevant apprentices are put in early contact with each other in order to create a relationship early, and companies that have had apprentices for a year must actively report if they do not want to take in apprentices next year. In this way, it has been possible to achieve a cooperation that is more committed than if companies have to actively sign up as apprentices each year. I also believe that the public must take greater responsibility, both directly through the inclusion of more apprentices in public enterprises, and indirectly by requiring public tenders to employ apprentices. In the case of non-response, we have to recognise that this is a complex problem. There's a lot of reasons that too many people fall from. Some have pointed out that school is too heavy for theory. For the practically motivated students, the theoretical subjects can be a major challenge. I talked to the principal at Abildsø Farm before Christmas. They're doing an exemplary job of combining theoretical and practical learning, and the principal gave me a picture that I think maybe some of us will be able to recognize us in. He said that the few of us like to read the full instructions from perm to perm before we use a new tool or mobile phone. We want to test it out in practice, check how it works, try it out a little bit. But today, some people may feel that they have to sit on the school bench and read the instructions for use for 10 years before they can start using their hands and testing things in practice. It's probably going to be a test for someone. We know that different exchange models have been tried out several places. Many would probably also have benefited from a somewhat more practical nature of school education. Many fall off due to problems that have arisen long before they begin high school, and we know a lot about who it is that falls from. We know that there are more boys than girls. We know that students with a migrant background are overrepresented in non-response statistics. The same is true of low socio-economic parents. These students tend to struggle with school throughout their schooling. The same students are overrepresented in special education. They are overrepresented in the statistics of high school graduates without being able to read and write properly, and many have actually fallen off the load already during the first years of school. Early school interventions are therefore important. Today, the school helps to reproduce social differences, and we have to do something about that. I am pleased that the four cooperation parties at Stortinget have agreed on an early school effort effort through increased teacher's density at the lowest class steps. I think more time for each student will make it easier to adapt the teaching. Then you might be able to help the boy who is struggling a little bit more than the others to crack the reading code – then he may not fall off the load anyway, and he may not need special education anyway, and then he may not end up as one of those who goes out of the 10th grade without being able to read and write properly, and as one of those who drops out of high school because the theory subjects get too heavy. This is a long-term bet, but I'm sure it will produce results. I think we all share the concern that we do not have enough skilled workers in the future. I think we all see the need to solve the apprentice's problems and make sure that more people get a place to learn. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State: What concrete action will the Council of State take to increase the recruitment of vocational training and to ensure that more pupils are offered an apprenticeship?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e596	Thanks for the interpellation. I can say that I agree with the main tone of the interpellant, that although we're in the process, we're not done. We often talk about vocational and vocational training as something better before, and as if the problems we are facing now are completely new. I think we should ask some questions about that reality picture. I would like to justify it before I come back to the representative's question. Norwegian vocational and vocational training has undergone major changes in recent decades. The aim of the reforms has always been the same, namely an attractive and relevant higher degree of implementation education that is in line with the needs of the labour market. Before 1994, we know that many young people took a basic course after a basic course without progressing in the course of education. Then it was drawn approx. 4 000 to 5 000 apprenticeships per year, and most of them for persons over 18 years of age. Professional and vocational training, as we know it today, was introduced with Reform 94. The 2+2 model, with two years in school and two years in the company, became the main model, and a lot of new apprenticeships were introduced. The evaluation of the reform showed that implementation improved, especially in the vocational study programmes. The changes, which were continued in the Knowledge promise, should provide greater opportunities for learning places in more than one subject and greater opportunities for conversion later in life. Today, about 18,000 apprenticeships are awarded annually, and nearly three-quarters of apprentices have youth rights. However, we are still facing challenges of both implementation, quality and relevance. It's also an important back ground because the government has said that we need a professional boost. I also fully agree with Mr Tyvand's representative that many more have to complete higher education. The last numbers show that 71 pst. of the coal which started in secondary education in 2008 had completed and passed in five years. This is an increase from the previous year, but it is not good enough. Of course, it is positive that the percentage of students who start professionally and finish has increased by 2.1 percentage points over five years and by 6.5 percentage points since the coal that started with Reform 94, but that is not good enough. However, I would rather say that vocational training is not part of a crisis. Rather, there's a lot of evidence that we have a positive development, but it's going too far, too slow. We cannot settle for the fact that so many young people are not able to complete their education because of lack of apprenticeship. Then I agree with the representative Tyvand that it is not just a matter of ‘pronouncement’, although it is important to make sure that when we talk about the professional subjects, we are not just talking about the problems. Very often, the professional debate becomes a debate on the absence or lack of apprenticeships and not a debate on education, educational quality and how to continue to deliver world-class skilled workers. The representative of Tyvand asks what concrete measures I would like to take to recruit more people for vocational training and to provide more pupils with apprenticeships in Norway. Approximately half of the students choose vocational training programmes. Recruitment is good, even if it fluctuates, and especially in some areas, for example: construction and construction, we have seen a serious recruitment failure. At the same time, we know that too few are completing education, and thus we do not train enough skilled workers to meet our future labour needs. To create more attractive vocational and vocational training, we need closer cooperation between school and business, we need more flexible training courses, and we need better quality and relevance in training. The teacher has been a review figure in the policies of the government and the majority of the population, and the teacher is also important in the professional sector. Professional teachers should not only be teachers, they should also be role models for future skilled workers. They need to keep up-to-date with the working methods of the subject as practised in the working life of the student. We have allocated funds to host companies for vocational teachers to provide professionally completed and up-to-date knowledge. In 2015, we also allocated money to professional networks for vocational teachers. The goal, of course, is that everyone should have a regular opportunity to update their skills, so that students learn more. A project has also been allocated funds to increase professional correction and relevance in the common subjects. But once again, we can't be content with that, and the bet must continue in the years that are coming. The close link between school and work life both nationally and locally is crucial. I'd say it's as simple as anything that brings the school closer to work and working life closer to school, I'm basically positive to. We have increased the appropriations for experimenting with models that have a more frequent exchange between school and company training, and have arranged for more of the training in the field of ‘Project for depression’ to be carried out in the enterprises. It's important. But it also presupposes that the states, which own the education, assume their responsibilities and implement these types of exchange models. We are now also working in the Department of Knowledge with four technical advice to try out a very exciting pilot, where the workforce is going to have a decisive influence on the training of the company, i.e. what the apprentices are going to learn. The reason for this is that apprentices and trade union workers will have an influence on the content and development of the subject, so that it is in line with the needs of the enterprise. It's a pilot, but like all pilots: if it's successful, we have to move on and scale up. We have to make it more attractive to become a learning business and help more companies want to be. There has been a positive increase in apprentice numbers compared to 1 December 2013, at 550 apprenticeship contracts. By comparison, from 2011 there was an increase of 1,179 contracts. At the same time, it is not so positive – it is both positive and negative – that more people want apprenticeship, and thus, although there are more apprenticeships being concluded, there is still a lower proportion of accepted apprenticeships, simply because demand has become even greater. So if we're going to continue recruiting for the profession, the growth in the number of apprenticeships has to be even greater than today. The apprenticeship grant has increased twice in two years, for the first time because the government took the initiative and got a majority on the Stortinget, for the second time because the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have concluded a budget agreement, as we plan to do in the coming years as well. As a result, the apprenticeship allowance has increased by a total of NOK 7 500. But it's not just increased grants that have to be made. When we look at studies on why companies don't take in apprentices, most people answer that they don't have culture for this in their company. In other words, it is essential that you have a tight and good follow-up device. An important part of it is that the counties dimension the education according to the needs of the local labour market. We can learn a lot from states like Rogaland, Hordaland and other states that are good at apprenticeship. There are two main things: first, they work closely and well with the companies from the first day – they hang on to them as a complaint. The second is that they dare to take it as there and then may seem like unpopular choices, namely, to dimension, bring down classes, where they think there is little need in the future, and thus less chance of getting an apprenticeship. It's a responsibility the counties have as school owners. I've repeated in every context that I've been in, that it's a responsibility that the states should take, even if it can cause temporary discomfort or inopularity because someone might not then get fulfilled their first choice. At the same time, one of the major projects in the Vocational Training Service is the major work being done by the Directorate of Education on behalf of the Ministry, where, in cooperation with the social partners, we are going to review all the education programmes and apprenticeships and propose changes to the offer currently available to young people. The review will ensure that vocational training is well adapted to the needs of businesses both today and in the future. There's a lot of evidence that we're going into more worrying times for the Norwegian economy as well. Then it's important to remember that apprentices are an investment in the future. It is already serious today when many young people who want to receive vocational training do not have an apprenticeship. If we forget to invest for the future when it's a little bit off, the situation can be even more serious. There is cause for concern about some industries, for example: construction, health and the commercial and service industries, for various reasons, do not regard the apprenticeship scheme as a recruitment scheme, thereby undermining future access to skilled workers. Finally, I believe that the public sector must take greater responsibility. I believe that when we, as politicians and I as state councillors, are around and encourage private businesses and municipalities and counties to receive more apprentices, the public and the state must set a better example. We have already sent out notice to our sector, the knowledge sector, that the requirements for apprentices will be strengthened, and I also believe that the public sector and the state as a whole must take greater responsibility than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e640	I would like to thank the Council of State for a committed and committed response. And I'm glad to be able to record that we share both reality and what needs to be done far along the way. I totally agree, everything wasn't better before. This is not in any way a new issue. There's no one here that has any reason to hit the chest, I think. This is a problem that has evolved under changing governments. Nor has it been meant to say that it is a crisis, but we have some challenges, which I am pleased that the Council of State is also interested in meeting. I hope that this can be a debate just about the solutions, and not just about the problems. The councils referred to the teachers. I think there's one thing people have come up with that government to bet on, it's the teacher. So far you may have heard a little specific about the professional teacher, but I am glad that these are not forgotten either. I visited Re secondary school in Vestfold yesterday. They are very good at both preventing non-response and increasing the degree of implementation of the students in the vocational courses. I said, "What have you done?" How did you realize this? What they've said is, we've invested in the vocational teacher. It's an important key, they mean. The principal told me that they've been working on the vocational teacher also in the theoretical subjects, because he who teaches these young people to weld or to wall, is able to achieve a very special relationship with these students, including those students who have different learning challenges, and who may think that the theoretical subjects can be very heavy. This is why they have chosen to put these craftsmen on the school bench and have given them teaching skills in mathematics, Norwegian and English, instead of teaching real-time teachers how to succeed with the professional students. This has proved to be a good strategy for Re secondary school. They have almost no disqualification at all, and most of the students end up getting a professional letter in the ordinary way. I think that's an interesting way to bet on the professional teachers that I hope the Council of State will also notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e651	It sounds like a very interesting example. I fully agree that there is a slightly different way to think about it than what we tend to do – most of our efforts are often linked to having the community teachers instead of their vocational education. It's very interesting, I'll take note of it. In an inter-pelling debate, it is possible to address issues, and one issue is: the previous government started — affordable, I think — what was called the social contract. They were brought with them as owners – we can say – the apprentice scheme in Norway. One of the important values and one of the important things about the apprenticeship system in Norway is that it is in a way owned by society, us, and by the social partners – trade unions and employers. It was agreed that through a common promise – everyone should contribute – the number of apprenticeship places should be increased by 20 pst. from 2011 to 2015. Now we are in 2015. We can say that we're going to measure this at the end of the year, but the phase up to now is not a 20 pst. increase, but a 2 pst. increase. So you had all the parties with – everyone agreed on the intentions. There was funding from the previous government – a good initiative. They had high ambitions. Why didn't it work? I think we're going to be so honest to say that even though it's called that all power should be collected in this room, it's nevertheless that in school policy we're also dependent on the school owners doing their job – the county has to do their job. If you look at the differences between the different municipalities, there is something about working life, of course – some people have a working life that is traditionally more available to take on apprentices – but there is also a difference in how you work with apprentices, quite simply. Hordaland and Rogaland were pulled forward, but I want to mention another example, namely Eastfold. Eastfold County so that they were about to slow down backwards. Eastfold is – like my home country, Telemark – a country with long industrial traditions and also long apprenticeship traditions. They saw them sinking backwards. What were they doing? Well, they grabbed, like we say in politics -- they did something. They launched a massive mobilization in business and in the public sector. They used ads – but it was like just the cherry on top, or the top of the tap cake – and managed to get 100 more apprentice contracts in a year, if I don't remember completely wrong. The combination of the laborious work, on which we can use Rogaland as a good example, the dimensioning of the offer, in which many counties are good, and the giving of a force and the use of the tools available – Eastfold received other support from the Directorate of Education to do so – are necessary if the apprenticeship effort is to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e664	First, thank you to the interpellant for travelling this important matter. As has been said before, the SSB projections show that there will be a shortage of almost 160,000 skilled workers in 2030. It's serious for the world of work, business and, of course, for our whole society. It is a national task to raise the status and position of the professions. The interpellant has been in terms of numbers and statistics on how many start vocational training, how many complete, etc., so I'm not going to spend any more time on it, but just stress that we're going to succeed in providing all young people with a good education and recruiting enough skilled workers, are increasing implementation and more apprenticeships absolutely crucial. So I'm going to take seriously the interpellant's call and talk about solutions. In Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, On the right track, the Stortinget was behind a number of measures. These included: actively working for more educational places through the social contract, on which the Council of State was involved, more exchange between school and working life training, professional orientation of the common subjects, consider providing professional advice, greater influence over the design of teacher plans at Vg3, alternatives to Vg3 in schools for students who do not receive training, and introduce a county community obligation to offer letters of practice, to mention something. We in the Workers' Party expect this work to be followed up by the government now as well. Work on ensuring good vocational training starts already in primary school. The key prerequisite for the completion of higher education is to ensure that pupils have better basic skills from primary and secondary education. It is important that the training provides students with a strong practical and theoretical understanding from the kindergarten of, and the Workers' Party believes that early work is the foundation for strengthening the professions. In this way, our proposal for a read, write and calculate lift is also important. Students have to experience that the content of education is closer to the reality of work, and then students have to meet a school that is up-to-date on equipment. The main strength of vocational and vocational training is the proximity of the labour market, and if the labour market is linked even more closely to the development of vocational training, better practical and continuous updating of professional and technological developments can be ensured. In this context, it is important to strengthen the commitment and ownership of the parties to the training through, inter alia: the professional advice. As I said at the outset, apprenticeships are crucial, and today that is as far as I know, approx. 6,000 students who don't get a place to learn. Both public and private business must contribute more strongly to the creation of more places, but the size of the offer must be based on the labour market's need for skills. Vocational training students can be a forum for cooperation between the State and the labour force on the dimensioning of supply and assessment of labour demand. Several schools should be responsible for coordinating contact with educational establishments, training offices and cooperation on student accommodation and practice. A supervisor can be a good model for this, and the apprentice should be followed up by the school at the time they are learning. In order to increase the number of apprenticeships and the quality of company training, the Workers' Party believes that the learning grant should be further enhanced. We need to ensure that vocational training works optimally in all parts of the world of work, and for us, it is important that we have a targeted investment in all sectors. Furthermore, it is necessary to facilitate the provision of good opportunities for continuing vocational training and for adults to take a professional letter. Vocational education has long been an undervalued and under-utilised route of tertiary education. The Stoltenberg government shut down the college committee, and the mission was to review the vocational schools and to propose how the schools could be further developed. On 15 December, the sample presented its report, entitled ‘Teaching School — An Attractive Choice of Education’. There are 49 proposals on how we can raise the place of the vocational school in our education system, and it is good that the government is now following this up and sending the report to the hearing. I look forward to further work, because the vocational school can play an important role in meeting the need for vocational education in the future. Finally, a point which is not directly below the work of the Minister of Knowledge but which is equally important to succeed in this work, and that is the struggle for a serious, predictable and secure working life. Few will be trained in a labour market characterised by unprofessional actors, high levels of rental, part-time jobs, temporary and undeclared work, and social dumping. That is why the whole of policy and action in other areas is also important if we are to succeed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e687	First, I would like to thank Mr Tyvand, who addresses this important matter, which in turn gives us the opportunity to discuss how to get more people to train as skilled workers, and what it takes to get more people to complete vocational training. There is a quantity of research and documentation on the implementation and non-response of secondary vocational training. In addition, Stortinget has dealt with several implementation, non-response and recruitment messages. Among other things, the Education Association’s report entitled ‘Unemployment from vocational education and training — such as professional teachers see it’, provides from August 2009 a thorough review of previous research reports on the absence and implementation of secondary vocational education and training. The report shows that the professional trainers have been used to a small extent as informants in the field of research. I think it is worth commenting that those who have the most contact with the students, and who know the school the best, have not been told in the research for which the Stoltenberg government was responsible. Between 2006 and 2012, the Knowledgelift was evaluated by different research environments and throughout ten research projects. The reason I'm making this up is that it clearly shows that, over a long period of time, a lot of resources have been spent on finding good measures to increase throughput and get more people to apply for vocational training. Unfortunately, I have to say here that despite this, the result is not as desired. Among the main reasons for professional absenteeism is the lack of basic knowledge from primary school, the lack of peer-reviewed education, an advisory service that has not been good enough — and often results in the student making wrong choices — and a lack of apprenticeships, which is a critical factor in the implementation of higher education. Vocational training occupies the Progress Party. We have raised several debates on this, and together with other parties, in dealing with relevant issues, we have made several proposals on what needs to be done to get more people to work on completing vocational training. Several of the proposals have been implemented and reinforced by the Right-wing Party Government, e.g. strengthening the advisory service, hosting arrangements for teachers and increasing the apprenticeship grant by NOK 7 500. Other proposals which are important for increasing the interest of vocational training are the professional correction of the common subjects – it is under development – and more flexibility in education. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the government, and in particular the Minister of Knowledge, are actively working to get government businesses to set up apprenticeships. These have also increased in recent years. The government's teacher's vow, which gives more than 5,000 teachers the opportunity to continue their education, will give students who leave primary school and enter secondary school, better basic knowledge and hopefully make more people complete their education and end up as good skilled workers. The Progress Party is also very positive that several counties and municipalities offer students summer schools to improve their knowledge in some subjects before they begin high school, but we should like to see students with pressure factors have been given the opportunity to improve them by choosing to take one year back to high school, also on the basis of the fact that many 15–16-year-olds need a maturation year. There are fewer and fewer jobs for people who cannot demonstrate that they have knowledge and competence in the subject to be pursued. In the absence of secondary education, there is also a high risk of ending up unemployed and dependent on Nav. For this reason, it is important to ensure that school dropouts and wrong choices are reduced. Therefore, it is also important to focus on the great need of the public and private sectors for skilled skilled workers and on the good opportunities for training such as: a plumber, a builder or an electrician provides, in the case of safe and good work, good performance both as an employee and as a self-employed person – that there are great opportunities for those who are betting on going that way. The fact that fewer students apply to a professional profession shows that there is a cause for concern, as the need for good skilled workers is high in both the short and the long term. It has been mentioned here several times in the debate. I think it's come out very well, but I want to stress in particular the importance of the schools and the states as school owners being conscious of their responsibility to have good and close contact with business to get more apprenticeships, because without it it just won't work. So this is where everyone has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e708	First, I want to thank the representative Tyvand for addressing a matter that we in the Central Party are very concerned about. I came to think of something when I was standing over there instead. Look around you, co-representatives. If you look around you in this room, you'll see examples of great tradesmanship, which has been done for many years. There are such paradoxes we have, which I just had to mention to you, so that you notice it. In the budget debate before Christmas, I spent my entire speech talking about the professions. It's not the first time, it's hardly the last time, and it's not random either. I think that the one that's massaging, it gets. I am pleased that there are many people who insist that something must happen in order for professional life to be able to carry out. This despite that, I don't think we're doing enough. Nor do I think the government is doing enough to implement the measures already proposed and adopted by the Storting. It's talking about a lift, but it's not. I just want to repeat the Council of State's own words about being a complaint: I want the Council of State to be a complaint also to the county councils and the social partners. For apprenticeship places, it is obvious that there is a challenge, but the challenge starts long before students seek apprenticeship. First of all, we must help to change the attitude of businesses, so that they see that adding apprentices gives them a profit of their own. I think the Council of State also expressed it in a good way by referring to companies that say they don't have culture for it. We have to change that mindset. It also applies to municipalities, county councils and state enterprises. Many public enterprises are simply wretched at recruiting and taking on training responsibilities as an apprenticeship. If there are municipalities that have problems today, we have to check with them what is really the challenge. Is it economics, is it their own competence, or is it culture? It's very important that all students get a good start at school. Early efforts we keep talking about, and that's the Center Party too, but then we might separate ourselves from the rest by stressing the need for high school to be flexible enough for more students to be able to demonstrate their skills in more areas. That means that if we want good tradesmen in the professions, we have to give them a chance to try out what it means to be a tradesman, already in high school. That is why we in the Central Party have wanted the vocational training profession to be a compulsory offer in all secondary schools, so that all students can have an opportunity to choose this as a taste in the professional fields and an opportunity to work a little more effectively. This is a subject that has proved to be very successful. Such an offer will take all students seriously, and it will strengthen the students' perception of what the professions are and give them the opportunity to make a more correct choice in the 10th grade. Now the government has to demonstrate its effectiveness, be a mess and push the individual county council to implement the measures adopted by a unanimous increase in June 2013. The fact that only 25 out of over 400 secondary schools offer exchange models, i.e. different ways of combining working life and school life, is simply unacceptable. It is no wonder that it comes from the industries of seas that we want to take over the teaching when we are unable to implement measures that we have initiated. I'm not talking about programs for depression, I'm talking about the exchange models. I expect the Council of State to take action and ensure that all students are out in practice in the hours they have for the program of immersion on Vg1 and Vg2. I would also like the Council of State to give an overview of how many students that are able to start apprenticeships in the company today already as 16-year-olds, i.e. through the so-called exchange models. It will be a challenge to ensure that teachers are also employed on a full-time basis when students are in practice — whether they are single-days per week or in periods in the exchange model. But it can't be an excuse not to. We're busy having a school that's for the students, not for the system. These include: That's why we in the Center Party have criticized the government for being greedy of the money purse, because we see that this will give unexpected costs for a period of time. Finally, we fully agree and voted in favour of the proposal to increase the apprenticeship allowance. It's a carrot. The training office is concerned that everyone with apprentices should be able to take part in courses directed by them. It's a big challenge for small businesses that have few employees, and where the bottom line depends on the one that's on the job. I also ask the Council of State to look into the challenge of the Training Office and the very smallest enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e729	Let me first just grab something that the last two speakers talked about, the high school and the need to have some flexibility, to adapt a little bit to the individual student. The left has called for a pilot scheme with a so-called Xclass to provide young people who are not ready to start high school, with the possibility of taking another year in high school. There's certainly a lot of other things we can tackle in high school to make it easier for students to get through high school. I think that the debate that the interpellant has raised is very important. I think we can all agree on the goal, which is that more people have to complete vocational education, but I think it's really pretty hard to find the answer to the challenge, why we don't get more through. In the debates in this area that I have participated in in the last year, several people have said that they think vocational training has a lower status than other education. Some even say that professional qualifications have a lower status as they are not higher education. Professionals may have a lower status than they should have. I'm concerned that knowing something, having a competence, is important, whether you've taken a so-called higher education at a university, or you've taken a letter and you know a craft. I think we should focus on that knowing something is worth something in itself. So a little bit about this: why does it have a lower status? For many who go professionally and receive a vocational letter, pay cannot be the only thing to do. a master's degree. So the status thing I think varies a lot. I think it varies from subject to subject. I think it might vary from area to area. I was on a school visit to Jären before Christmas. There it was: Oh, yeah, you didn't get into the TIP, you did. Well, I guess you'll have to take study-specializing. It was quite the opposite: going in a professional direction means something, it is important – the whole environment around the drug scene to get people into the professions. But it has the consequence that there are quite high character requirements to enter the profession, which means that many of those who could have thought – and would have liked to fit into – such a profession do not come in because it is very difficult to get in. So it's this: who is it that decides what you choose? Is that the teacher? Are those the counselors at the school? In many of the studies that show who young people are listening to, we see that it is the parents who have a major influence on the educational choices of young people, and perhaps most of the mother. So if you were going to run some campaigns, they might have to be directed to mom to get more kids to choose a profession. I think we're into something. I think that increased apprenticeship grants are an important way of getting more apprenticeship places, because we know that we need apprenticeship places if we want these young people throughout the course. I think the public itself must take a greater responsibility for taking in apprentices. This applies not only to the school owner, who is the county municipality, but also to the municipalities. And that's the state. I believe that the public must use the law on the law on public acquisitions more effectively to demand that there are apprentices when tenders are made. It was also the interpellant inside. Several have mentioned Rogaland as an example of a successful state. It is true that Rogaland dimensiones its offer, and that sometimes it is made quite unpopular decisions. But I think what's crucial to Rogaland's success is that they constantly focus on getting businesses to accept apprentices. I don't think I've met the county rapporteur in Rogaland without her talking about apprenticeships. On the part of the county council, emphasis is placed on the need for everyone to contribute. The public, the schools themselves, the county council, the companies, the LO, the NHO – everyone needs to get together to find apprenticeships, to find a way to connect the right young people to the right businesses. So we have a job to do in every term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e746	Let me also thank Mr Tyvand for raising this important debate on what needs to be done to meet our future needs for skilled workers. Interpellation is addressed to the Minister of Knowledge, but several government councils could have taken part in this. Of course, the recruitment of young people to a professional profession is linked to the quality of our education and the need for teachers in the professional field to also become part of the Teacher's Lift. But the debate is probably so much about the responsibilities of a Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Municipal Affairs as well as the Minister of Finance. It does not help with good action in one sector if they are undermined by lack of action or counter-effect measures in another. My point of view is the Labour and Social Committee. On 15 December, the Stortinget discussed a proposal from the Workers' Party in which we asked the government, together with the social partners, to develop a new and reinforced action plan against social dumping and crime at work. We promoted 22 new measures that we believe should be included in such an action plan. The proposals included, inter alia: Strengthened tripartite cooperation, improved public relations and solidarity, improved control mechanisms, prevention and investigation, tip-phone and stricter penalties – including for those who misuse foreigners improperly. In addition, we promoted a number of proposals for stricter requirements for clean-up of public procurement systems, both at State and local level, including requirements for apprentices on projects where possible. New, targeted sector programmes need to be in place. We need to strengthen the principle of equal treatment for hired workers, permanent employment must give entitlement to pay, even if the employer should not have a job there and then, the joint and several liability must be extended to public builders, etc. What, then, does the fight against social dumping and the crime of working life have to do with the recruitment of skilled workers for the future? Yes, quite a lot. When young people, in consultation with their parents, are to choose the path of education for the future, the future prospects of the profession they choose mean quite as much. If we allow social dumping and crime at work to take place, as we see, for example. in the construction, transport, cleaning, hotel and restaurant sectors, to mention some, particularly vulnerable sectors, the desire of young people to choose to invest in such professions will also be weakened. It's about the working life you meet on the day you leave your letter, but it's also about the possibilities of completing a training course at all, and the lack of apprenticeship places scares many. Public contributions to the inclusion of apprentices in their own enterprises and businesses must be required here, but the public can also contribute more to the clear demands of apprentices in its procurement policy. It's a shame to say that the government parties took the wave for our proposals. They were annexed to the Minutes only. Instead, we see that the government wants to open up more temporaryity in Norwegian working life. It does not exactly promote recruitment to vocational training. The government has also proposed the abolition of collective redress, which is one of the most important measures in the fight for decent work. But the highlight of the debate before Christmas was the Christian People's Party, which wanted to take our proposals to the Financial Committee's consideration of the Christian People's Party's own proposal on public procurement. I hope that will lead to the Storting this spring actually making binding decisions on the type of business that the public is going to deal with in the future. Finally, a few words on a few other issues that fall within the remit of the Labour and Social Committee. The right to an expanded position: As of 1 January this year, you will be entitled to a fraction corresponding to what you actually worked last year. The law was passed in summer 2013, while there was still a red-green majority on the Stortinget. The current labour force figure in the Right, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, believed that this law would create difficulties for both workers and employers. Well, we'll see, but an important point is that the law will especially apply to women in care professionals, another field where we need to increase the recruitment of skilled workers. So, at the end of the day, the law of permacy: the regulatory restrictions were imposed on strong protests from serious employers, so that renting could quickly become an alternative to their own employees, which, in turn, would weaken the ability to take in apprentices and reduce the attractiveness of the relevant industries. In summary, the fight against social dumping is not just about today's, but about recruiting for future employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e763	I would also like to thank the interpellant, who addresses a very interesting and important issue. I feel that we all in the Chamber agree that we have a great need for professionals and professionals in the future, and everyone agrees that we need hairdressers, bakers, carpenters and masons to keep the wheels running in this country. So now we've heard a lot that you want to do. There's been some positive progress in the number of apprenticeship contracts in the last year, and there's a discussion about the status of the professions, and I think that's an interesting debate. We all have to contribute to increasing the status of the professions, and there is no easy job to do. There's no button to press, but it's about showing up all the amazing opportunities that professional skills offer. This summer, I was with the Oslo Crafts and Industry Association on visits to various companies and met both bakers, carpenters, plumbers – businesses that had an active and good relationship with apprentices, and I thought: What if several schools had been more involved and took the students – young people who are uncertain about what to choose from professions in the future – and showed all the possibilities and gave the opportunity to visit and see in practice what it means to take vocational training? As has been pointed out in the debate here, strengthening the professions is not a quick fix; it takes a lot of action to succeed, but I think we can look at the good examples, and I think we can strengthen the advisory service. In Rogaland, which has been drawn out as a good example, they are good for example. dimensioning, so that all those who wish to pursue a profession can take up apprenticeship and that is an important measure. In the Municipality of Oslo, as I know well, we are demanding an apprenticeship in public acquisitions, and it is also a right step on the way when we know that the public is a great buyer, and that they can help to obtain professional training through apprenticeships. Then it is also good that we have a minister of knowledge who raises the professions. The government has three main objectives for the Vocational Training: closer cooperation between school and working life, more flexible courses in vocational and vocational training and better quality and relevance in training. And then we've increased the apprenticeship grant twice in two years – we're on it. The last time it happened was in 2009, and with an increase in the year's budget of NOK 4000 per contract, we have increased the apprenticeship grant by a total of NOK 7 500 since we took over the government power. So it's positive things, and it's a boost that's going on. In the supplementary proposal for 2014, we also granted 114 million. for additional vocational and vocational training, and emphasis was placed on measures to improve the conditions of enterprises and to improve the quality of training, inter alia. through increased apprenticeship grants and additional grants to enterprises involving pupils with special needs. The Education Directorate has now been entrusted with the task of identifying the equipment situation in secondary education in order to improve the knowledge base. We don't know where the biggest challenges are. To give another example from Oslo: here we have invested in the Cube of the Professional Arenas, and there we closely cooperate with, among other things. Toyota to make sure that there is a close connection between business and school. It also makes us constantly up-to-date and good equipment that makes it attractive to choose a profession for young people. In the future, we will review the supply structure of secondary education in order to ensure that young people have a vocational education and training demand in their working life, and the government is also working to find out how and if not practical letters can be offered in all countries to young people at risk of falling from higher education. At the hearing, the government has also sent a new regulation to the project for immersion, and the aim is to ensure that students spend more time on business and gain valuable experience from working life. It is also the case that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Knowledge work together on a strategy to increase the number of apprentices in the state. I have to say, it's a very important topic we're discussing. I am optimistic that we all agree that we want to strengthen vocational and vocational training, and then we have to discuss how to get it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e781	A skilled worker in action either at the lathe or in the care and care of an old or with full control over the seam conveys a certain kind of pride and authority for which at least I get respect and admiration. Today we have no overview of how many in Norway have a diploma, but approx. half of continuing training takes it, so that means that it is likely to be added hundreds of thousands each day in workshops, hospitals, construction sites or production halls. These jobs are entirely decisive for Norway in the future, and as many have said before, we must show in words and actions how much skilled skilled workers are worth for Norway. We need a status level for professionals. We need to show professional pride, career paths and valgoligheiten. Let me first say that the state budget for this year was not a professional commitment. The only major investment was continuing training for teachers. Many of the major measures adopted have not been taken. There are many things that determine how many people are able to take and manage to complete their vocational training. Although the drop-off rate is high on further progress, problems often start before. The problems in the course must be seen in conjunction with the rest of the course. We need a development from an instrumental orientated school where testing, pugging and good girls and boys are premiered, so that just those who don't like to read the entire user manual get right. Increased focus on testing, comparison between schools, principals, teachers and elephants, helps to narrow the school, and it is in such a school that many fall from. We need a development into a childhood school and a youth school where the whole human being is challenged, where the goal is not instrumental to feed the students with information, but where one appeals to the creative and creative human being, both theoretical, practical and aesthetic. In such a perspective, the introduction of evaluators is important. We do not yet know what effect this will have on the profession, but I am sure that it can work positively, and that it can spread the course further for early efforts. We also know that vocational training is important, both content and pay terms. Probably we won't get far if we're not willing to lift both. The content of education itself needs to be more practical. We know that the theoretical part of vocational training is the most important single reason for non-response. We also know that the work done in the state is important. The interpellant referred to Rogaland's work. Learning from each other is important, learning to work in networks, not necessarily creating new national standards that slow down further development. The experience of Rogaland also shows, as we all know, that good cooperation between education and working life, public and private, is important. Maybe that's the last thing I want to do in the final analysis. It is the general development of working life that is too little addressed in discussions like this. Young people are not idiots. They're coming along. Otherwise, there are two strong trends in the labour market. We see an increase in the renting of foreign labour and companies that think in the short term, and thus let things go beyond the efforts of apprentices and the construction of skills. In particular, this applies to the construction industry. No crew company has apprentices. In the EU, we know that there are many millions outside jobs and education. This labour force coming to Norway is cyclical and unstable. These are people who are supposedly going to turn the cop back when the times change and it's shining in the economy. Back, advisers, businesses, directors, investors and builders may be left with unresolved tasks. Perhaps the young people see these jobs as less attractive, and they don't give very high status. This will also be reinforced by the second strong trend in working life, which is the government's own action, which met strong resistance from a collective trade union movement. The lashing of work environment laws, the opening of temporary settings, more part-time work, more overtime and the attacks on working time could be particularly detrimental to the jobs where professionals have just been added. We have a great job ahead of us before we can hit our chests, but we also need to see this in conjunction with the general development of our working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e798	Governments mentioned business in Eastfold, I think, and they explained that they have no culture to take in apprentices. I have to say, if that's right, it's almost strange that such a state may have raised a man like Hans Nielsen Hauge. Changing culture is not a simple job, it's a heavy job, and we have to be a lot of people to do, not least schools, companies themselves and county councils, and I'm glad that organisations like NHO and LO are also actively contributing to this around our country. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I think we have developed many interesting perspectives and also many interesting measures. The representative Vinje mentioned it to show the professional opportunities before, and I think that is a very good suggestion. The representative, Sønsterud, drew up the practical letter system. I also think that practical letters can be a good alternative for someone, for those who are well-trained, but really motivated to work. For them, practical letters may be a good alternative. But I think that too many -- here it's about quite young youths -- it's valuable to be in a class environment, in a school community, together with others of the same age. And it's interesting to see that in Rogaland, which has been brought forward many times during the debate, the use of practical letters is quite small. There you want to get the students into an ordinary race as early as possible. The representative Sønsterud also mentioned something else interesting, namely following up the students even when they are learning. I mentioned that I was visiting Re secondary school yesterday to hear a little about what they have done to succeed. What they told me – in addition to what I mentioned in my previous post about investing in vocational teachers – was also to bet on better transitions for students, both from high school to high school and from school and out in education. So they invest quite a lot of time in getting to know the students that they know have learning challenges, before they get to school -- talking to them, preparing them, putting classes together in a sensible way -- and they also spend time following the students after they've graduated. They count the students as their students until they're done with the letter, and the principal is absolutely sure that it also makes the teachers more aware. Finally, I will – once again – just say a thousand thanks for a good and interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e809	Thank you very much for the debate. I'm just going to comment briefly on some of the things that have come up. First, it is worth remembering that it is very easy to think that a professional letter is linked to – what to say – the traditional industry and care and care. But it is also possible to take a letter within e.g. ICT, office science, commerce and, of course, food and restaurant science. There's also a challenge we haven't discussed yet, that's that, for example. in the commercial sector, in part, is a small culture for requesting professional letters. Young people take the letter, and they are given apprenticeships, but they do not experience employers asking for it. There you have it instead, for example. industry schools developed on their own, which have a much more prominent place. Then I repeat again in this hall that Report. Paragraphs 20 for 2012 to 2013 shall be followed up. We are in the process of following up, and there will also be concrete proposals and things that will be promoted for Stortinget. In the case of the college committee, it shall be consulted. It's also going to be a big message. That's important, because the subject schools are the stepchildren of the Norwegian education system. I think there are a lot of people out there in the big social debate who really don't have any ownership or relation to what the colleges do, but the colleges are obviously very important -- not as a supplement, but as an independent part of our education system, for example. in order to build on vocational training. It is also quite important to strengthen the place of colleges because, as a bonus at the top of it, they can also help to address some of the challenges such as: has a lot of people opting for colleges and universities, and you have a high drop-out there. Then I'm glad it's a lot of stuff. I agree that these break points are important. In the project for better implementation that has now been launched, but is being developed by the Ministry — which is simply a project to tackle the problem of waste in a different and more systematic way than in the past — it is precisely these cracking points that are crucial. There's just a little bit of an apprenticeship situation, because this is very much a student who's been through a lot of the crack points. They've come from high school to high school. They've been through the first year and the second year, and especially in the first year, we know that there are a lot of people who fall away, especially those who have bad assumptions from primary school. But then there's the apprenticeship place that makes them unable to complete their education, or have to finish at school, and it's an extra betrayal on the part of society. If I can take a case study in the end, just so that Eastfold does not hang out: Eastfold was here the positive example, so it was NIFU's study of apprenticeships in general across the country that showed that very many people who did not have apprentices, stated that they did not have culture for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e822	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e838	School and education are one of the best things in our society. School is the most important arena for children and young people because large parts of their daily lives are spent at school. This is where young people acquire knowledge and skills, but the school is also, to the greatest extent, a social arena because children and young people meet peers and get friends and social networks through school. It is vital that children thrive in school, both for their well-being today and for the future development of the child. In the international context, the Norwegian school performs quite well in the psychosocial environment of its pupils. Nevertheless, not all students are enjoying themselves at school. Every day there are many students who are afraid to go to school. The annual Student Survey is a good tool for monitoring students’ well-being and the prevalence of bullying in Norwegian schools. The survey may be conducted all school years from the 5th grade of primary to the 3rd grade of secondary school, but it is only mandatory to complete it at the 7th and 10th stage of primary school and at the 1st stage of secondary school. Nevertheless, it appears that schools often carry out the survey at non-compulsory stages. Among other things, 65 pst completed. by students at 8th stage, the 2013 Student Survey. It is positive that many schools choose to give priority to this in order to monitor the well-being of their schools. The student survey 2013 revealed that 4.2 pst. by the students were subjected to bullying two or three times a month or more. There is a drop of 2.5 percentage points compared to the 2012 pupil survey figures. Nevertheless, researchers cannot conclude that this represents a real decline in the amount of bullying. The 2013 Student Survey, which was developed by NTNU Societal Research, highlights that there have been only marginal differences in the amount of bullying between 2007 and 2012, while there was a significant difference between 2012 and 2013 in the number of students who report having been bullied at school. The researchers behind the analysis point for several reasons to this marked difference in the amount of bullying between 2012 and 2013, among others. that the survey has moved from the spring semester to the autumn semester, that there were fewer questions in the survey, that fewer students respond unprofessionally and other changes to the questions asked in the survey. Nevertheless, in the 2012 Student Survey, there was a slight decrease in the number of students who reported having been bullied, compared to previous years. It suggests a decline and is, of course, very happy. As I said, 4.2 pst. by students in the 2013 Student Survey who have been bullied two or three times a month or more frequently. It's equivalent to over 30,000 students, and there's a lot of individuals and individuals. In other words, there are tens of thousands of students in Norway who go to school every day. We can certainly call bullying a social problem, and the status quo is not an alternative. I have promoted this interpellation for several reasons. In the autumn of 2014, we saw a number of grotesque examples of very serious bullying, where students have been subjected to systematic bullying for a long, long time. The students we met a few months ago through the media had not been properly followed up by school and school management, even though the school administration knew about the ongoing bullying. This was – and is – very serious bullying, and the stories touched an entire nation. Odin Olsen Andersgård was one of the students who was bullied at the school. The parents found it best – although it is a big step to take – to move to another municipality and start again. Odin was subjected to systematic bullying even in the new school. Although the school management at both schools was familiar with the bullying, unfortunately Odin was not followed up so that the bullying stopped. As a 13-year-old, Odin no longer saw any hope and took his own life because of the bullying he was subjected to at school and on the way to and from school. This is one of many fates that has been destroyed by systematic bullying in school everyday life. Perhaps the biggest reason why this interpellation is promoted is something Odin said several times: ‘It doesn’t help to say from behind, they don’t do anything anyway.’ From his words, I find it reasonable to conclude that somewhere has the school and others associated with the school, failed – not everywhere, but in many places. Preventing and combating bullying is a continuous work, it is an eternity project. That's something that the Stortinget, parents, school owners and school leaders and others have been trying to find a solution for many, many years, and that's something we're also going to discuss for years to come. The big question is who is responsible for the bullying. A large part of the bullying is taken by adults in the community. On the other hand, we have a law that clarifies a responsibility: under the regulations of the Education Act and the Private School Act, the school owner must ensure that national studies on motivation, well-being, bullying, student participation, student democracy and the physical school environment are carried out. Under the same regulations, school owners are obliged to follow up these studies locally. Section 9a of the Training Act states that all primary and secondary school students have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. The same paragraph also states that if an employee of the school acquires knowledge or suspects that a student has been subjected to abusive words or actions, such as bullying, discrimination, violence or racism, he shall promptly investigate the matter and notify the school administration and, if necessary – and possible, take direct action himself. School owners, school managers, KS, employee organisations and others have a special responsibility to take action to stop bullying. My question to the Council of State will therefore be how he can ensure that this safeguards the students' right to a bully-free school environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e861	Bullying is one of the greatest threats to the knowledge school, but more importantly, it's a betrayal of the promise that we've given to all the students who start school, that this is a place where you can be safe. Overall, I believe there are three tracks we have to work along. Firstly, there are rights and the legal framework. I'm going to get into it – there's the Djupedal committee at work and is going to deliver in a short time. The second point is the concrete work in schools, including the evaluation of the programmes and policies actively supported by the State. What's going to work? What doesn't work? Thirdly, it is the mobilization of responsibility. I have received a lot of requests from mob victims in the last few months. I have also met a lot of people who have been bullied. The stories they have told are often tragic, but at the same time I must say that many of those I have met are also some of the bravest people I have ever met. Many of them have stood up, they have not come over what they have experienced, but they have at least found a strength in telling others. Sharing their history with others and standing up as a bullying victim is an important part of the responsibility mobilization we depend on. All adults, all of us, but also everyone who works at school or with school questions, must have as a primary task to prevent bullying. There are two characteristics that go back when I talk to bullying victims. First, many, too many, experience not being believed when they tell adults about bullying. Secondly, too many people -- once again, not everyone, we shouldn't be black-painting, it's worth remembering that nine out of ten students say they're happy at school -- don't get there when they or their parents try to bring the matter through the system. It's unacceptable if you tell us whether bullying and not being believed, or if you say it, parents say it, others say it and nothing happens. It's unacceptable, but it happens anyway. We have to do something about that. The first is the legal and the rights. It is part of the mandate of the Djupedal Committee to review the overall instruments for creating a good psychosocial school environment, combating and dealing with bullying and other so-called undesirable incidents in school. In addition, the investigation shall assess the instruments, including legislation and its management at different levels, that are effective in preventing and managing bullying. The committee was originally due to deliver late in the spring, but the government asked the committee to speed up their work so that they could deliver in March 2015. I fully agree with the representative of Bjørnstad when he points out that it is the municipalities like the school owners and the principals and the teachers who have a special responsibility to stop bullying. We need clear adults who understand what bullying is about, who actively intervene when they see bullying, and who work systematically and long-term to achieve results. I also want to highlight all other adults at school in that context. We have a project in the department called a team around the teacher, but really it should be called a team around the student, because in a school there are also a lot of other adults who actively contribute to creating a good school environment. It may be the environmental worker, but it may also be the cleaning staff or a janitor. When too many schools don't work, it's not about the individual teacher, mostly. The problem is systematic. It's the absence of a good organization, of functioning systems and of long-term work. I therefore agree that it is a system failure when many schools and municipalities fail in the crucial area. It's not just that many thousands of students are regularly plagued physically and mentally; it's also, of course, destructive to school learning. It's very hard to learn what you're going to, if you're scared every day to go to school. The most important work must therefore be done in each school. That doesn't mean we're going to give up responsibility, because it's our responsibility to make sure that the work is done, but that means that if this doesn't propagate down to every single school and every single classroom, if not all schools have systematic and long-term plans to prevent bullying, good procedures for dealing with bullying, then we won't get anywhere in the right direction. If concrete bullying is announced, you cannot sit down to discuss, at least not for too long, or – even worse – hope that it will go away by itself. The measures, i.e. what to do, must already be clear in the plan, and it must be implemented immediately. We have fire drills in schools all over Norway so we know what's going to happen in a school if the fire alarm goes. Similarly, if a bully comes, routines must be clear, so that valuable time is not wasted. The Ministry also has a responsibility in this area, both through legislative design and through the promotion and support of concrete measures to prevent and combat bullying. We're doing that along a wide spectrum. I don't have time to mention everything, but I want to mention that the law is of course clear that all students have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment. Schools are required to investigate and intervene against bullying or infringing acts, as well as to alert school management. Paragraph 9a also includes, as the representative has been involved, provisions on fines, penalties and liability, rights which both municipalities, county councils and other school owners must adhere to. But again, it is not certain that this law is good enough, and therefore an important part of the mandate of the Djupedal Committee is to review and assess it. I'm open to tightening up the law, and I like to repeat it here. In addition, I would like to stress that it is a national task to supervise the municipalities and their schools linked to § 9a. At the same time, that supervisory authority must be good; it is also part of the mandate of the Djupedal Committee. In addition to law and supervision, the most important government is emphasis, skilled teachers and principals, i.e. working with a good school environment and a good learning environment, clear adults who can recognise bullying and understand what it's all about, who actively prevent, who intervene when they see bullying, and who work systematically and long-term to achieve results. That's why both the principal's school, building locally at school and continuing education are important, not directly because it's about bullying, but because it's part of building up the school environment and the learning environment. I also want to raise municipalities that have been struggling with high bullying for several years, but that are now part of the so-called learning environment project. Through the project selected schools and municipalities receive guidance and support through tailor-made arrangements to reduce bullying. Early in 2015 we start up pool 2 in the project, which involves participation from new and even more schools. I also want to mention the extra 10 million. kr to local bullying measures adopted a little over a year ago by the majority of population. This appropriation is managed throughout the current school year, and finances inter alia: three new local bullying agents in county municipalities, it supports joint projects of which KS and the Parental Committee for Initial Training cooperate, with preparedness teams against bullying in selected municipalities, and it supports other local bullying projects across the country. Here, as in the previous case, it is of course such that if, for example. preparedness team – which now expands the Parent Committee and KS, they get 1 million. kr extra to do so in 2015, they believe that you need to gain more experience – works, then we need to scale up. We also have a number of campaigns to combat bullying. The campaigns themselves can not only cause the bullying payments to go down, but it can be a support for local work. Not least, it is worth mentioning that we live in a world now how much of the contact, especially among young people and politicians, is on social media, and then it is also important – both for young people and politicians – to use the Internet. We know that in serious cases digital bullying is one of the most young people affected. There are important websites that contribute to the provision of teaching facilities on it. All in all, the next few months, both with the Djupedal Committee, with the evaluation and review of the entire anti- bullying work and with the mobilization of responsibilities that we must continue, will be marked by a discussion and debate on how best to combat bullying. We're not going to be able to say after one year or two years that this game is finished once and for all, but we have to be able to say that we've come one step in the right direction, and we have to be able to say that everyone who says from is being heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e894	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for his answer and not least for the commitment he has shown to this kind of matter since he became Minister of Knowledge. Let me take the opportunity to thank His Majesty the King and the Prime Minister for their contribution to this debate in recent times. That the two used large parts of their new dates to address this issue, I think is appreciated by a lot of people. I also want to repeat some of what the king said in his New Year's speech, namely that those who bully have something else in them. They're so much more different than humans than a bully. That, I think, must also be reflected in this debate. Then I want to say something about digital bullying, which the Council of State was in. A lot has changed in recent years, even more so in recent decades on this front as well. In the digital world where children and young people live today, bullying is taking place in other arenas than at school and in other arenas than on the way to and from school. Net bullying may, like other bullying, be both passive and active. Many children may, for example: feel excluded when no one likes their pictures or their status on Facebook, for example. A consistent trend, according to surveys in this area, is that girls are more vulnerable to online bullying than boys. However, it is often associated with the school bullying. The latest study of children’s media use and experience, Children and the 2014 media surveys by the media surveillance authority shows that 13 pst. of children between 9 and 16 years of age have experienced that others have bullied them via mobile phones or on the Internet in the last year. In 2012, the number was 15 p.m. that they had experienced digital bullying. The results suggest that there is a slight downward trend, but that there are still very many young people who experience bullying through social media. The Council of State was concerned with this with definitions and that one is not believed or not heard – not discovered. Bullying comes in a lot of different variants. It can be hard to define what's bullying, and what's not. It's either just the guy who's being bullied, or feels like you're being bullied, who has the power of definition. I don't think we can allow ourselves anything but a zero vision, even if it's hard -- maybe even impossible. The councils were also concerned with this with the municipalities. Many municipalities do a good job in this field. Many jobs are targeted and continuous with bullying as a theme. The problem is that very many single schools differ negatively year after year. Røe Isaksen stated that the good work had to reproduce downwards in the system. How are we gonna do that? Will the Council of State take on a coordinating role to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e909	Yes, it is natural that the department takes a coordinating role. I believe it is natural that the Department, although not all the instruments are the Ministry of Knowledge alone, helps to see the various instruments in the context. So I want to touch something that the interpellant said, and it's: what is bullying? It's important to remember two things. Firstly, it is not all that is unacceptable that is caught in the category of bullying. Much that's not going to happen in a school is, however, not bullying. Today it's called infringements, in that investigation. There may be people who are called shells, not every day, not every week, but once or twice. It holds, it doesn't – it's not acceptable in a school either. Erting is not bullying, but it is also not acceptable for anyone to be irritated for a long time, or at all. So it's not like everything that's unacceptable is automatically bullying. The other thing is that it's not like the best way to fight bullying is always saying, "Don't bully each other." We also have to say that, but it's kind of the same way that if you're going to prevent – what to say – violence in the city, it's not necessarily the best way to do it by hanging out big posters that say: Don't knock each other out. No, it's about making safe urban rooms, having good lighting, having police present and having a proper drug and alcohol policy, I also have to say. Now I see that the Christian People's Party is nodding and smiling and agreeing to it. It's a little bit the same way in the anti- bullying work at school. In the short term, attention must also be paid to bullying — we have to get back to it all the time — but it is clear that in the long term, work is being done to ensure a school where everyone feels that they belong, where it is good discipline, in the sense that there is no tolerance for people falling on each other or using them, for example. reducing gender-based shelling words as a way of asserting and dragging others down, important. The kind of thing is that in the long term creates a school environment that makes it less likely that bullying can occur, and more likely that it will be discovered, not least because compassion has a vaccine in itself against seeing others being plagued.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e920	According to the 2013 student survey, to which the interpellant has already referred, approximately 17,000 primary school students bullied two to three times a month or more. These are serious numbers, so serious that they overshadow the fact that there has been a drop in the bullying payments from the year before to the year before – because whether there are 17 000 or 17 500 students who are being bullied is really less important. In any case, these are too many children and young people, who are at the start of their own life — their vulnerable lives — and at a time when premises are being laid and the course set. It's about children who still get comments on their looks, how they go or how they talk. There are children who are pushed, kicked, beaten, spit on – yes, in fact peed on. There are children who are kept out in the spare minutes, on the class tours and on the birthdays. It's net bullying, it's kids who feel that they're bothering, that they're a strain and in worst cases feel like they shouldn't be here. It is children who think the school road and the school everyday is a struggle. This is serious enough in itself, and no less serious when we see which tracks this struggle can put later in life. We politicians have a responsibility to prevent and stop bullying, and students and parents should be sure that the students are taken care of in school. Many measures have already been taken. Many good programmes and teaching arrangements are being carried out. This is valuable and must not stop. But we need something more, because there's a huge discord between the 17 000 students who get bullied and the 126 complaints the countyman got into last year. In the wake of media attention in the autumn, the focus was on the lack of competence in each school to follow up the intentions of the Training Act. There is a great need for support and guidance at school and teacher level in targeting measures to prevent and stop bullying. Focusing on this is needed in teacher and principal training. Under the red-green government, a pilot scheme was established with municipal preparedness teams against bullying. The response teams gather skills, work interdisciplinaryly, and ensure full attention to interventions, and care for both schools, teachers and students. Emergency teams have been tested for a few years, and the experience has been good. In other words, the teams can be part of the responses to the needs that are requested. The working party therefore believes that the time has come to make the emergency teams a permanent arrangement in all the municipalities of the country. It's a shame that the majority did not vote for our proposal to do this already this year. We don't get away from the law when we discuss bullying, and I think we should be so honest and say that today's law doesn't work well enough as a tool in bullying situations. When bullying occurs in a workplace, the Working Environment Act is an important part of the tools used to resolve the conflict. We see too many examples that the Training Act does not work the same way. We need a stricter law, where school owners, municipalities and the state need to be given greater responsibility for identifying, preventing and taking action. The Djupedal committee has announced that they will tighten the law, we agree. I hope that the government raises its eyes and does not sneeze this into detailing the applicable right. An example of this is what was fronted by large letters in the fall – which I must stress that the Workers' Party of course agrees – namely that the bully has to change school. But then the damage has already happened. What we need is a law that goes further and that takes care of and takes care of the student long before school changes are considered as measures to solve a bullying case. The Deep Pedal range, which was set down by the Red-Green Government, will deliver its recommendations this spring. I really hope that the time we have ahead of us will contribute to decisions and priorities that ensure our schoolchildren a safe and good start to their own lives. “It doesn’t help to say from, they don’t do anything about it anyway,” said the 17-year-old Odin. It had disastrous consequences. We have to do what we can to prevent that happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e939	Thank you to the interpellant Bjørnstad for raising an important debate. Then I would like to say that I am pleased that both the Minister of Knowledge and the Prime Minister are clear that the fight against bullying is an important matter for the government. We've seen in the past that lifting bullying as a political matter to the top level and really putting this topic on the agenda can create a consciousness in society that can, in turn, help deliver results. We all have a responsibility, both teachers, school leaders, politicians and parents, to fight bullying and create a safe and good learning environment for our children. Attention on the theme can and will contribute to more people becoming a little more aware of their responsibilities. Then we might avoid in the future that someone will have to repeat Odin's words: "It doesn't help to say from now on, they don't do anything from now on." I've met some bullies in the last year. A mother made a strong impression on me. She said that what they needed was an adult who had leaned over the table and said, "This is not acceptable, so we're not going to have it at our school." Instead, they were met by a principal, a principal, who said there's no bullying at our school. I'm quick to add that I know that a lot of teachers, and a lot of schoolteachers, are genuinely concerned about creating a good learning environment, and that a lot of them succeed. The problem is those who do not take their responsibility seriously. I also want to take the opportunity to thank Odin's mother for telling the family's strong story. I would also like to thank Villemo Hatland, who is one of the toughest girls I've ever met. She has stood up to her story and has been involved in creating an awareness of bullying issues in our society. The bully hits a lot, too many. Some of us might remember when we were children, and when we were young people, and how scared we were – at least I was – to get on the outside. I recognize that now that I have become a father and have a 2nd grade girl – how afraid I am that she will end up on the outside. I often know the feeling of how hurt, hurt and difficult it would be. Bullying is a topic that affects many at a very deep level. Sometimes bullying hits blindly, sometimes there are special groups that are exposed. We know, for example. young people in Norway do not dare to tell them that they have a Jewish background, a Jewish identity. I know that other youths experience being exposed to Islamophobia because they are Muslims. We know that nine out of ten gay and lesbian youths experience being bullied at school. That is simply not acceptable. And then we have to admit that some of the measures that have been taken in recent years, with good intentions, have proved to be ineffective in the long term. That is why we need to think again, but I think it makes sense now to wait to come up with all the concrete actions of the Djupedal Committee to present its report later this year. Then we have to get a real debate back in Stortinget. At the same time, I am pleased that the four cooperation parties in the 2014 budget agreement agreed to launch a test project involving bullying agents in several states. In Buskerud they started this a few years ago, and it has given good results so far. I think that the new bullies will also contribute a lot positively. Finally, I would like to say that we, as parents, also have a responsibility that we have to assume. As a father, I can't discharge my responsibility for my children's attitudes as they enter the school gate. That is why we also need to strengthen the relationship between school and home in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e960	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important matter on the agenda. Unfortunately, it is not the first time this topic has been debated in this Chamber. Nevertheless, bullying is a daily problem, which goes well loose for both children and adults. I would also like to thank the Council of State for his commitment and stress that it is very important that we stand together politically in the fight against bullying. We remember all the demonstrations in front of the Storting before Christmas that were arranged by Villemo Hatland, who has experienced the sails to be bullied, and the matter of Odin has shaken us all strongly. The hopelessness and despair that children and young people are aware of when they are not heard and believed in, we cannot let go unnoticed, because as the king said in his New Year's speech, we are adults, parents, kids, siblings, teachers, principals, politicians who together have to do something about this problem. This is not just a problem for young people; we adults are obviously role models for our young people. Our frank talk about the neighbor or acquaintances around the dinner table gives signals to our kids about what it's okay to talk about, and in what way it can talk about people. Review by others is something our kids immediately pick up. Therefore, the message in the «Adults create friendships – online» campaign, directed by Manifesto against bullying, is very important. Adult involvement both in what we see directly, and in what we get on the web, is incredibly important. We have to be adult friends and adult friends for our kids. This applies whether I'm a parent or just a friend on Facebook, Instagram or Twitter. We have a responsibility to care. It can be difficult for someone, and if we've looked at this series on TV, I think there's a lot of people who get a little hurt in their stomachs when it comes to drying to care. How to deal with bullying is not easy, but decisive intervention when it is discovered is necessary. But bullying is not always as easy to get an eye on or get to know. I had a discussion with a teacher earlier this year. He said, "We don't have bullying, we have a full overview." I asked how he could be so sure of it, and mentioned the network, the telephone and the school route. Very many people who are being bullied say nothing about it to their parents or to others, in fear that bullying will increase. Therefore, we can never relax and think that we have a full overview, and that bullying is not there. Bullying is not innate, and the causes are complex. The kids who are safe in their seas don't need bullying. That's why it's so incredibly important that we give the kids an experience that they're good, that they're good enough, that what they do is good. I don't think we're supposed to have expectations for our kids, but after following articles on the mental health of young people, it's clear that there's a strong expectation in today's society of performance, of being something extra – a pressure that makes the young people sick, and that makes all the funds used. This is also to be remembered when we discuss how we test students at school and when we publish results and compare schools with schools. I agree that schools must have the means and also the opportunity to be tough on those who bully, but is it that the school does not have the means to take action? I sense that it is not only the laws and regulations that are essentially the problem, but the understanding of the space of action that lies within them, and the freeness of use of the instruments. However, the main effort the school can make in this respect is to help ensure that no bullying is necessary. It requires teachers to have an overview of the young and not least not to have to work to the full on other tasks. I look forward to the presentation of the Djupedal Committee in March. There is every reason to ask why bullying is allowed to go on for a long time, often several years, without finding a solution. A common denominator in such cases seems to differ in the perception of what is considered bullying and the measures to be taken when. However, the school cannot push definitions or formalities in such cases. When an individual learns that he or she is experiencing insecurity and is not well-being at school, something needs to be done immediately. The burden of proof shall not be imposed on the person lying down. Just as little as it helps to minimize a problem, it helps to demonize a bully. With the serious consequences that we know bullying has for the individual, I'm not a stranger to put a heavier responsibility and a greater expectation of reaction to the school leaders, as the interpellant speaks of, but at the same time we must not be tempted to believe that punishment and penalties are what can solve this problem. We as adults and parents also have a great responsibility and a great job to do, each at our post. We're not going to have bullying, it's never going to be accepted, and it's going to help say from.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e975	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. This is not something we are just going to discuss today. We have a case in the committee, a proposal from the Council of State to give the opportunity to move the bully, to ask the bully to change school instead of making the bully feel like it's the only way out. Then we have the Djupedal committee that will present its investigation, and I expect that we will have the opportunity to debate this quite thoroughly this spring. I've been visiting Kristiansand and looking at the kindergartens there. They have a very exciting project going on, but what surprised me was that those who could say that bullying is not just a problem in school. There is also bullying in the kindergarten. They said the kids know very well what bullying is. If you ask a kindergarten kid what bullying is, they say that bullying is irritating – only even worse. It says something about how big and comprehensive our bullying challenges are, and how wide we need to think when we're going to address these challenges. I think the most important thing we can do to combat bullying is two things: one is that we need safe adults around children and young people, and we need to focus on bullying. Many schools today use different programmes, such as: Zero, and has great joy and benefit from it. It's definitely important to them, but I think if you don't focus all the way on bullying as a teacher, as a school manager, as a school owner, you can't deal with the situations that arise along the way. That's also what the council says when he says that like fire drills, you have to have a routine for what to do when these problems occur. We have to focus on this all the way to keep it under control. Then there is one thing I would like to mention: I think it has been said a lot from previous speakers that this is not a problem where we can see clear political dividing lines. This is something we all agree that we have to do something about, and we're all looking for the good tools, which makes us get the bullying statistics down and all the way down to zero. A report on school reporting and documentation requirements was presented at the very least in the spring. I think this is an important work that will also have meaning for bullying. I think you have to focus on bringing down all the bureaucracy in school to give teachers more time to follow up on the individual student, to see what's happening in the classroom and to listen to the stories from what's happening outside the classroom. It is necessary to focus on getting other occupational groups into school as environmental workers and health sisters, including the janitor and clean-up staff. I think we need to take a deep look at this, focus on bullying and make sure that those adults who associate with our children and young people today have time, opportunity and competence to see the individual youth and to follow up the challenges that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e990	Happy New Year, President. Bullying is something that makes me darker in the soul, when I get right different types of stories, stories, either through the media or told directly. I met a family who had a three-year-old in kindergarten, and they thought there was something strange about her, for she behaved a little strange. They also noticed that in kindergarten she played very much for herself. So they discovered that this three-year-old was simply isolated, and she wasn't allowed to join the game with the other kindergarten kids. When they talked to kindergarten teachers, they told us that bullying is not uncommon even among the youngest of us – a three-year-old who gets bullied. When we talked to the three-year-old and asked how it went, what it was like not having anyone to play with, she said it was okay because she was just playing with her own shadow. - One can be black in the soul by much less than that. We know that there's probably the most bullying in high school, but there's very uncertain data we're sitting on here. There's a lot of what's being reported, there's reason to be insecure, but there's a significant social problem, we know. We know that the good guys are probably bad. I went to two schools, a high school and a high school in Tromsø. At Borgtun school there was significantly less bullying, while at high school there was more. I've often thought about what could be the reason for that. At high school, at Borgtun, we had a janitor. I think the tall, skipper's voice that occasionally thunders into the schoolyard when something went wrong. His role is supposedly quite priceless, while in high school on the Green River it was not the kind of figure that had tasks outside the classroom. There was the problem much bigger. One might be able to divide this into two domains. The only thing is the prevention of bullying, the school's ability to catch up with problems early and the children's ability to just care. Without going into a major resource issue in this context, I believe that there are several teachers present, that there is an active school health service capable of seeing what is going on at school, has a lot to say. Strengthening the school community could significantly affect the pay of bullying. It's not just what I think; it's something that the health sisters also think is necessary in the context of having a more active role in school. The second domain that the interpellant brings up, the measures against already documented bullying, the sanctions, the distribution of responsibilities, the compensation system, the criminal sanctions, are also important, and we have probably had unclear responsibilities for a long time. The bullying of the red-green government, where an established shared responsibility between the municipality and the defendant, where the municipalities were able to demonstrate that they have taken action in the matter of compensation, has probably been important, and the fact that one has extended the limitation period for such cases from two to five years has also been important. Walking the penalty path is part of the solution, but as an SV, I'm probably more concerned with working with the preventive part of this, with the school's ability to capture and children's ability to care. There I think that one is too little brave to deal with the problems around in School-Noreg. People, adults and children, need to be much easier to get to grips with. I tip everyone in this room, at some point in time, through the growth and later seen bullying and perhaps annoyed at the fact that one did not take hold of itself. Perhaps even our bullies have themselves and are ashamed of it today. But I think that that part of the fight against bullying is well so important, to dare to intervene, to dare to take responsibility, to grow up and to be a child. That's where I think we're too little good. We're probably just a little bit too brave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e1004	Thank you for a good debate. I will carefully link some comments to some of the things that have been said. The council has said that he works out of three lines, and I think that makes sense: the legal and the rights as the first line, the concrete work on the schools as the second line, and the mobilization of responsibility as the third line. So I think we have to be so honest to say that the most important thing is line two, the concrete work in the schools. As the representative of Fylkesnes is also involved, I think everyone agrees that it is the preventive, preventive, which is the most important thing, and then the work around the municipalities and at the individual school is very important. If it does not come to the legal and the rights, as well as the liability mobilization, afterwards, after the damage has happened. Then I'm also very happy that the Council of State is taking this up with other adults in the schools. It's very important. In my primary school, the janitor was the most important environmental worker. When he was out in the schoolyard and then hinting at bullying, he grabbed in and brought the victim into the hall a quarter to hammer a little loose and get out the frustration, and he also spoke to the student who was responsible. It's very important. And it's the same thing if it's janitors, cleaning workers or others. The representative, Thinning Bjørnø, pointed out that today's regulations and laws do not keep, and that the consequences must be greater for those responsible. I fully agree with that. If this had been any other case related to another law, I think the reactions had been stronger – if the scope and systemicity of the offences had been on the same scale as for this case in the Training Act. The representative Tyvand believes that perhaps it's too early with the concrete thoughts, and that you have to wait for the Djupedals. Several have mentioned the Djupedal Committee, and I also look forward to their report. I agree in part that it is too early to start with the very most concrete thoughts, but it is possible to make some reflections towards this sample presenting its report, among other things. that there must be a rice behind the mirror for those who systematically, consciously or unconsciously allow bullying. Nor should we forget that there is a great deal of daily effort in this field, because everything is not as sensitive as you can sometimes get the impression of. Parents, teachers, cleaners, janitors, principals and not least non-governmental organisations, such as MOT, do a lot of work in this area. Once again, thank you for a good debate, and I look forward to the more concrete continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e1023	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. Today’s legislation is not good enough – most likely it is not. But I think it's reasonable that at least the Council of State is waiting for the sample to sit and work, before you draw the bastant conclusions. Then I want to end by saying as two possibilities: I could have said that I agree with the interpellant. But I still have a bit of a Christmas mood in me, so I want to say that I fully agree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV, because it is so rare I get to say from this pulpit. I think everyone agrees that the punishment and the penalty can never be the main instrument here. It's really just to see that at that moment it's necessary to punish and punish, because that's what you have to do, it's already gone wrong, someone's been bullied. The whole point here is not to punish the bully, the point is to ensure that the least possible – ideally none – is bullied. That's the common problem we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e1032	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-06.ana.ud1704e1045	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
