ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e63	The following alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Are Health For Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad and Hege Jensen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag From the so-called representative of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 17 November to 19 November under the authority of the representative of Sven Roald Hansen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Eastfold County, Fredrik Björnebeck, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e105	Fredrik Björnebeck is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from 17 November until further notice by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on leave for the representative of Jørund Rytman from 17 November until 19 November to take part in the meeting of the EFTA Committee of Members of the European Parliament in Brussels On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: – For the County of Buskerud: Tone Heimdal Brataas– For Oslo: Peter N. Myhre
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e140	Tone Heimdal Brataas and Peter N. Myhre are present and will take the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e145	On behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the necessary regulatory changes and measures to ensure more minority language opportunities for formal education and work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e150	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. To the representatives' briefing: Before we begin on the agenda, the President will state that, as a result of yesterday's legislative procedure, the Stortinget meeting will begin on Thursday 19 November at the usual time. 10 – that is to no surprise. But then there will be a pause, and the meeting will be set again at 0 p.m. 15.30 for second time treatment — i.e. 72 hours after first time treatment — of changes in foreign legislation and voting on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e166	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e182	This debate on the UN's sustainability objectives is taking place against a gloomy image of the media, which dominates the cruel attack of the saint in Paris and the refugee situation in Europe. The acts of terrorism in Paris are not just a matter of shock, anger and sorrow. They are also a strong reminder of how collective frustration rises in a world that has become smaller, and of how religious differences, cultural contradictions, differences in economic development, changing power relationships between nations and, not least, failing political governance in many places create conflicts that in consequence directly interfere with our local everyday life. In this picture, we are challenged as politicians – not only in terms of the debate on the content of current policies, but also in terms of our own forms of work are good enough, not least in international policies, where we see the need to identify forms of cooperation and new political approaches that can better enable the world community to solve the common challenges of humanity. The climate issue is a good example of this. However, in the middle of a problem-oriented media everyday, it is important to raise the positive trends, which are also part of the overall picture. Work on the UN's Millennium Goals has produced results. Several receive education — not least girls — child mortality has fallen, and several receive important vaccines to mention something. The success of the Millennium Goals gave a good starting point for working on what we now call sustainability goals. It is historic when all countries have now joined a common programme with clear objectives. This in itself is very promising. A programme such as the sustainability objectives will have considerable political gravity. It will set a common agenda in the world by 2030, it will help to develop meeting places for political development, it will be the basis for joint research and statistics, and we will develop parameters that can tell us something about the current situation and what results we are achieving along the way. The goals are many, and the challenges are great. 17 main objectives and 169 intermediate objectives cover a wide range of areas, and it will be a challenge to keep attention focused over time on each one. Eradicating poverty, food security for all, education for all, gender equality, climate issues, preserving and rebuilding earth's ecosystems – all of this is just the key to the tasks we are about to tackle. The challenge for all of us now is to go into this with a sense of urgency and willingness to change and see what opportunities we have, each from our post, to contribute. Of course, it's the government, but it's also the Storting. My concern in this debate is to focus attention on how we work – on anchoring policies in our own ranks and on using the interparliamentary arena optimally. If we are to succeed, first of all, it is necessary that our political parties go into the work thoroughly. The sustainability objectives must not become enough a matter that lives and dies in conjunction with media attention. I believe that our international commitments mean that ongoing harmonisation with sustainability objectives must be a political objective in itself. The sustainability objectives must be part of our own political agenda. We cannot demand from others what we ourselves will not try to achieve. This means that the parties must incorporate sustainability objectives into their efforts to create policies – it is in programming processes or in the political work of elected bodies. Parliamentary work is also a good channel for civil society, which must also be involved in this work. A fundamental difference between the Millennium Goals and the Sustainable Development Goals is that while the Millennium Goals appeared as an aid programme agreed by a group of rich countries, the sustainability objectives are more of a joint programme statement negotiated by and actively endorsed by all countries of the world. This means that we're in the same boat, that no one is perfect, but that someone needs more help than others. This means that all countries, regardless of the level of well-being, must address the issues of sustainability targets. I believe this is an important recognition and reminder that the sustainability objectives are also part of the Norwegian domestic political debate by 2030. A good and qualified debate on instruments and paces is healthy as long as the objectives are set. It gives policy dynamics and progress. For a welfare society like ours, our international commitment is still the most important contribution. As a performer of the country's foreign and aid policy, the government will, of course, play the central role here. However, I also think it would be fruitful to look at the role of the Greatness Delegations. For a small country like ours, a great deal of consensus on foreign policy has been a strength. It also provides a good starting point for using our delegations more actively. Perhaps there are, for example, some sustainability targets Norway wants to give more weight than others? Or maybe there are areas we want to put more work into, just because we have more to contribute to? Norway, for example, has a good history of education for girls and vaccination programmes. Should we be clearer and better coordinated in our international strategies in this regard, and can our contribution as parliamentarians be strengthened? The work of the international party groups is also interesting in this context. Common policy development and a common understanding of the issues that will arise will also be important for our common ability to solve results in countries, often at very demanding international arenas. The experience of climate negotiations is an example to reflect on in this context. During the negotiations on sustainability objectives, Norway worked for clearer formulations under Objective 16 on good governance. We didn't quite get into port, and we still believe, of course, that democracy and good governance are a prerequisite for success in the long run. The size of the population has been particularly involved in this issue of democracy development in Eastern Europe. For example, in these days we have visits by a delegation of Ukrainian parliamentarians. This is part of an exchange programme common to the Nordic countries and builds on the reform work now under way by the Council of Europe in the Ukrainian National Assembly. Here, the Nordic and Baltic national parliaments have coordinated their efforts, and I would like to say with good results. Maybe this is something we should do more of. In this context, the whole of the OSCE delegation, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe delegation are also important. Through joint influence on the breadth of interparliamentary cooperation, we can contribute to the maturation of positions and recognition of the need for democratic reforms. Once the practical work on sustainability targets is started, I think enhanced Nordic cooperation will also be fruitful. Here the work of the Nordic Council and the Nordic party groups can play a good role. On the one hand, this could be about coordinating efforts in other parts of the world, as parliaments are now moving ahead and doing, but it could also be about how we choose to deal with the ongoing work to be undertaken nationally. In the field of sustainability objectives, much is not yet established, and through a common Nordic approach, for example, we could have a significant influence on issues relating to the development of parameters, the relationship between qualitative and quantitative methods, statistical issues, etc. The question, for example: What it means to be poor is probably a problem that gives different answers, depending on whether we are in Africa or in the Nordic countries. This is a topic that I think should have a Nordic and perhaps also a European superstructure. The world situation we are now facing requires that we stand together to meet the major challenges internationally and in our own country. If Norway is to meet the sustainability objectives both nationally and internationally, a wide-based debate is needed. The size can and should facilitate such a debate, where government, magnificence, as well as free organisational life and other actors together can find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e220	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the opportunity to inform the Storting about the recently adopted sustainability targets. In fact, the agreement of the UN Summit on the new sustainability goals and the new global development agenda, named 2030, adopted on 25 September, was historic, and in several ways. For the first time, the UN Member States have negotiated common goals for all countries and all peoples, and for the first time we have had a universal agenda, a common vision for the world in 2030. This means that the recently adopted sustainability targets also apply to Norway, and we are now looking at how this should be followed up in our own nation. I will first of all mention the international dimensions of the sustainability objectives. The sustainability objectives set out the main common challenges facing the world as a whole. The overall objective is to eradicate extreme poverty through sustainable development. The principle of leave no one behinder is new and is central. It's about creating growth, wealth and a worthwhile life for everyone, including for the most vulnerable people. It's about promoting fundamental human rights. At the same time, the earth’s carrying capacity must be respected and the environment and climate protected. These are very ambitious goals, but the world's leaders agreed at the UN Summit that these were achievable goals. When we've seen how much we've already achieved with the Millennium Goals in the last 15 years, it's an inspiration, but now the fight against poverty has to be completed over the next 15 years. We are the first generation that has the ability to eradicate extreme poverty, and we are probably the last generation that can avert catastrophic climate change. This is therefore not just an aid agenda. It is an agenda for global sustainable development. The sustainability targets set higher requirements for the Member States, and they set new requirements for cooperation. For global development cooperation, the objectives represent important changes in the framework conditions. The Millennium Goals were designed, not by the Member States, but by the UN, to mobilise assistance and to combat poverty in developing countries. On the one hand, sustainability targets have been negotiated by the Member States, based on the Rio process, and apply to all countries. The objectives combine all three dimensions of sustainable development: environmental protection, economic growth and social considerations. With this, the world has got one overall agenda. It sets out the common global challenges we need to address for sustainable development. Thus, sustainability targets have also become much more comprehensive than the Millennium Goals. I admit that some of us may have thought it was quite comprehensive to be able to be followed up in concrete terms. There are 17 targets and 169 targets that cover a very broad agenda. The primary responsibility for poverty eradication and sustainable development lies with the countries themselves. National authorities shall take both ownership and leadership. Countries themselves must ensure good policy priorities and stable framework conditions for growth and investment. The Conference on Financing for Development in Ethiopia in July — where Norway played an important role — was clear that there is a need for increased national resource mobilisation and tax access. However, assistance will still be important for LDCs and vulnerable countries and, unfortunately, there is an increasing need for humanitarian aid. In addition, sustainability targets bring a whole new dimension to Rio and the Millennium Goals. This is a very important innovation, namely Objective 16, on efficient and responsible institutions. This was one of Norway's top priorities in the UN negotiations. Objective 16 is really about good governance, democracy and human rights. Although these concepts are not directly mentioned, their content is well covered, both in the objectives and in the political declaration that forms the framework around them. Objective 16 calls for the reduction of violence, the promotion of the rule of law and justice, the reduction of corruption and crime, the safe participation in decisions and the protection of fundamental freedoms. I think it's encouraging that we've got all the United Nations Member States agreeing on this that has been one of the most sensitive issues in many discussions. In my opinion, objective 16 is a tool in the hands of national parliaments, organisations, business actors and politicians through their respective efforts to follow up sustainability goals. It is through the Objective 16 formulations that the possibility of impact for all vis-à-vis the national authorities has been established. Respect for human rights, together with climate, environment and equality, is an important cross-cutting consideration of the development policy pursued by Norway. We will contribute to the integration of human rights, governance and stability into a broad and comprehensive follow-up to sustainability objectives. We will also contribute to promoting market economy, growth and job creation, as well as the environment and climate. The Paris climate summit must show the way to a world where temperature rises are held below two degrees. This presupposes the success of the other objectives. Of course, the government also sees the sustainability objectives as central to the continuation of the Millennium Goals and the focus on poverty, health, education and gender equality. The refugee crisis shows how important it is that we succeed with the 2030 agenda. We must meet the precarious humanitarian challenges and at the same time contribute to the prevention and resilience of poor countries. If we fail to address the root causes of conflict, distress and destruction, people will continue to leave their homes looking for a better future. We must help fight poverty and disease, protect the environment and natural resources, and limit climate change that undermines food security and the basis of life of many vulnerable communities. The assistance will have a complementary role, not least as a catalyst for investment and business involvement. Private sector partnerships will be crucial for success, not least in growth and job creation. On the part of the government, we shall follow up sustainability objectives through political dialogue and cooperation, both bilaterally and multilaterally, as well as through our own national follow-up. International work will take place on different tracks, but with an overall approach in line with the UN Summit declaration. There is no plane B. There is no plane B. All countries are on the same boat and have to contribute together. The size can support under this agenda in its work internationally, on all the themes of Stortinget's work. Through contacts with elected representatives and authorities in other countries, the Stortinget can share experiences on Norwegian governance, on democratic participation, on partnerships with the private sector and civil society, on how to get involved and create trust in a society. The exposure of elected representatives will be essential for the implementation of the 2030 agenda. The government wants to have a dialogue with Stortinget on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda. We'll do that in several ways, but among other things. we will deal with this through the budgetary procedures and the budgetary documents of the coming years. I warmly welcome a debate on sustainability objectives. I believe that such a debate can only strengthen us and make us stronger to find the good solutions. We know that Norway is well advanced in many areas, and the government is already working intensively with forward-looking reforms and transformations that can ensure that we are able to be far ahead of us in the future. We know that we have something to bring to the table if we can do it with a humble and open attitude towards other countries, about how we manage to promise together in a society. We know that, through interaction with international bodies and parliamentary assemblies, the Stortinget can help to strengthen, not least, all that is under Objective 16, namely to improve the functioning of the regime in many countries. The UN's most comprehensive consultation process is at the heart of sustainability objectives. Millions of civil society votes worldwide have been heard. We have had dialogue with civil society organisations, and I hope that we will be able to cope in the follow-up to ensure that millions of people's voices are still heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e258	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good review of the content of sustainability goals, and not least their context in the big picture – in relation to life on our planet. It is essential that we be able to anchor this work in the political, and then I think the party-political, the work. This is because the sustainability targets are so broad that they can quickly become just a party formula, a cliché, without content. The objectives will then lose their international strength, if they only intervene in the national agenda, without having a common consistency. I also heard the Prime Minister's invitation for the Storting to participate in this work. Since I'm a practical person, I'd like to make it a little concrete. When big business representatives attend international conferences – it can be about equality, vaccination, yes, different things – it is incredibly important that we have a good cooperation with the specialist councils involved. Of course, there are constitutional limits to what roles we have, but I think that in a small country and with as high a consensus as we do in many of these questions, we need to be able to take advantage of the advantage that this represents – that we speak with the same voice and that we are moving in the same direction – when we are in these international meeting places, which will be more than fewer of which. I also think Nordic cooperation is important in this context. Many of our delegations have good Nordic cooperation in the arenas they work. That's what we're saying. Together, we have greater impact, and we have a greater impact on the points of view we represent. We also think that is an area that should be developed further. Then there is no doubt that the area in which we, as a national assembly, may have the greatest legitimacy, is about governance. That's the area that's our concern. We're the arena of the board of directors, to say it like this. I think that we work on it together, with clear guidelines and in cooperation, not least in the context of the efforts of the government through the EEA Agreement and in other ways outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e271	I fully agree with the President-in-Office of the Council that the Stortinget has a role, and I believe that the parliamentary assemblies have a role to play. Just as I believe that some members of the Council of Europe and the OSCE had a major and important role in the 1990s in relation to the process of democratisation that took place in some countries – building institutions and decentralising power – we are really at that level now, higher up. We are talking about how we build structures for sustainable countries on the democratic side. Then maybe democracy is not always given out of democratic questions about multi-party elections, but you can still talk about what's in Objective 16 – about the rule of law, a good system of governance, transparency, that is, transparency. Work on corruption is likely to be one of the most important steps to develop in many countries. It is corruption that destroys many places for the country’s own ability to lift and use resources in a good way. In a way, Norway has been working on this, completely independent of it, when we've been working with Oil for Development, when we've been working on competence transfer on how we've managed to manage natural resources, which we've developed. But although we have cooperated with many countries, not all countries have managed to spread income – after they have gained control and national resources from it – to the people. I therefore see the need for anti-corruption, for transparency, for people to pay taxes, for tax systems to work and for democratic control over military forces. As head of the NATO delegation in the previous period here on the Storting, this was one of the issues I raised, not least after the Arab Spring – the need to talk about how parliaments will manage to gain democratic control over military forces. After what happened in Egypt, you might say that we didn't quite manage to get that work going, but it's still important things to do. So it's important to work so that this isn't just a party show. That's why it's important to have measurable statistics, follow-up -- all the boring control work -- and let me share with the Storting an experience I've had working with the Millennium Goals. We were visiting Rwanda. It is the country that has had the greatest decline in infant and maternal mortality over a shorter period, i.e. in modern times. What did they tell us that they did? Well, for every child who died, for every mother who died during birth, a separate report was written and sent in to the health authorities, and then learning points were made. It was as if it were from a target management program in the Norwegian central government, and they were able to do so in one of the poorest countries in the world. It's possible to do such things, and the results are visible when you do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e282	Let me first thank the representative Olemic Thommessen for having traveled a very good and important interpellation. The parliaments around the world need to address precisely these issues: how will our country work to achieve the good sustainability goals? What do they have to say for us? How do we change — both at home in Norway and in our efforts in the world? We live in a difficult time. There are many issues that characterise the political agenda. This fall, the refugee situation has marked the agenda here in Norway and in the rest of Europe, and this weekend we saw brutal terrorist acts that took almost 200 lives in Beirut and Paris. We have to do more to meet this brutal evil. We have to meet it with security policy, with intelligence and police. It must meet with preventive efforts to prevent radicalisation in Norway and Europe. But maybe the most important thing we have to do is get a world in more stability. We need to get better security by achieving the UN's sustainability objectives. Better allocation of world resources, fighting poverty, education for everyone and resolving the climate crisis may be the most important thing we can do to prevent extreme groups from taking root. I'm worried that all the acute crises we see in the world should take the focus away from what are the actual acute crises, but which are there all the time. Because it's clear that when 1 billion people live in starvation, it's an acute crisis both for them and for the world, even though it doesn't experience that every day. The climate crisis is an acute crisis that the world has not been able to cope with over several years. Therefore, the answer from Norway and Europe cannot be that we should do less with what is the major global challenges because we have challenges here at home. This is precisely why sustainability targets are so important – they are affecting what is our common commitments. I heard the Prime Minister make good contributions on behalf of Norway when she was in New York in the fall. That is why I was surprised when the government proposed such a big cut in our international aid only a few weeks later. We've done what we just shouldn't do: cut to what's the global challenges because we have challenges here at home. It is clear that great cuts to rainforest, to renewable energy and to peacemaking will weaken our efforts and our ability to achieve the sustainability goals. Both the Prime Minister and the interpellant took on a good board. I fully agree that the Stortinge can play an important role here. It can also be civil society. Civil society has an important role to play in ensuring good governance, and civil society has had a lot to say for Norwegian foreign policy. Consider what the efforts of the trade union movement and the Church's efforts in South Africa had to say for Norway's efforts against apartheid in South Africa, or what Norwegian People's Aid has had to say for our efforts in South Sudan. Clearly, civil society has an important role to play. I think it is problematic with the big cuts that civil society has proposed. I would also like to point out that we need to have good global arenas to achieve the sustainability goals. Then the United Nations is the most important, and when the United Nations urges the world not to cut, it is a big problem that countries like Norway cut to perhaps the most important United Nations organisation, namely UNDP. It's bad, and it's problematic because it's real cut, but it's also a terrible bad signal. Clearly, there are challenges here in Norway, but we are still one of the world's most privileged countries. When we see ourselves having to cut, what other countries in the world are what we don't think can do exactly the same? One of the problems we have as a magnification is to make sustainability goals better known. We need to get the people of Norway to become part of their goals. In the drama we saw how they worked very systematically with the UN's Millennium Goals. They worked in towards kindergarten and in towards school. According to a survey in Norway, the thousand - year targets were quite little known, but in the municipality of Drammen there were 25 pst. who knew about them. The kids took with them the knowledge they had learned in kindergarten and at school, home. We should also discuss how we can make sustainability targets better known in Norway. Finally, sustainability targets shall apply equally to all countries. They have as much to say to Norway as they do to Nigeria. What are they going to say for us? How do we have to stretch to achieve the sustainability goals here at home? I believe that here is the most important thing we can do to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions: we're going to be a low-carbon society. It sounds like a simple thing to say, but the truth is that it's a terribly difficult and big ambition. If we are to become a low-carbon society in 2050, we must become a quite different society from what we are today. In this respect, the Storting must concentrate on a more offensive climate policy, both in order to achieve its own objectives and in order to meet the UN's sustainability objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e301	First, I would like to thank the President of Stortinget, Thommessen, for raising this interpellation. I think it's important that we start discussing how to think about these new sustainability goals in the years to come, because this is a set of goals that set the world community on a global scale to tackle challenges like poverty, hunger, lack of education, climate change, corruption, war and conflict. The eight thousand-year UN target, adopted in 2000, has been a success. The objectives have been mobilised for joint action against poverty and for development, so the deadline for the Millennium Goals is running out at the end of the year. Now the new sustainability targets take over and set out a new ambitious course for world development for the next 15 years. It's important, because the world is facing enormous challenges that can only be solved jointly. The Millennium Goals showed us that it is important for the world community to move in the same direction towards common goals, rather than for each country to make its development plan, for together we can achieve so much more. The sustainability objectives are far more comprehensive. For example, the focus is still on poverty reduction and on health, education and gender equality for women at the centre. But sustainability is now also integrated with new targets for, among others. climate, energy and environment and resource management. In addition, human rights have come in, and we have received targets and targets for both the rule of law and freedoms. When Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, well over a year ago, took the initiative for a new communication to the Stortinget on human rights, it was welcomed by most. When the committee gave its opinion, we said, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Report St. 10 provides a good starting point for strengthening human rights and democracy in the Norwegian foreign and development policy. [[2014-2015]] The message reflects the fact that there has been a broad process in advance, with many good and relevant input from different actors, and not least from civil society actors.» Not surprisingly, an overall committee considered that ‘human rights must be given a central place in the 2015 UN Sustainable Development Goals’. And the importance that the new sustainability targets ensure the reduction of inequalities, was underlined, because the main slogan for sustainability goals is the principle: everyone should be included – no one will be left prevented. I have expectations of the new sustainability targets. And the main Norwegian priorities have come along. We have to focus on dealing completely differently with the new sustainability targets than we did with the Millennium Goals, because these relate to us in a different way. We've come a long way in Norway, but here too we have a job to do. We have the skills and resources to help other countries achieve their goals, and our future security is a great deal about the state of other countries. And by helping others to achieve the goals, we also secure our own future. However, a dose of humility makes sense here too, for Norway itself can be more effective in many ways. We are not without challenges in gender equality, education, climate, environment and health, or human rights, for that matter, or rights for people with disabilities. When it comes to helping poor countries, traditional means of assistance will continue to be important, not least for the poorest countries. Norway is in the aid stop globally when it comes to counting assistance per capita, we spend around 1 kr per 100 kr in the national development aid budget, and we must continue to encourage other rich countries to set aside at least 0.7 pst. of GNI for development. Sustainable development funding must come from a wide range of sources, both national and international, public and private, and we must ensure that these are used in the best possible and efficient way. It will be a challenge to follow up and report on so many objectives, especially for low-capacity developing countries, which obviously lack both data and statistics, and the international community needs to see how to contribute in this way. It is clear that 17 targets and 169 targets are more extensive than the Millennium Goals were. That is why it is also so important that we broadly discuss how we should ‘address’ this work here in Norway, and that is also why it is so good that the inter-pellant has already raised the debate on our table. I think he is quite right that we need a broad-based approach to this – the Nordic Council, the Nordic party groups – in all contexts a common approach. That I believe must be the right way to go, and I believe that we are doing well by the fact that the interpellant has started us this way here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e323	The sustainability objectives adopted on 25 September are ambitious, and for many of them Norway wanted even more ambitious formulations than it actually did. in the case of a good set of rules. But there is no doubt that there is going to be a great deal of effort by the world community to achieve these goals, by each country that has committed itself, and by the international organisations. And maybe it's true that the agenda got a little too wide, a little wider than it should have been ideally on the question of the follow-up. Each of the 17 measures is large. Eradicating all poverty, eradicating hunger, ensuring and promoting good health for all — all the issues, all the 17 objectives — will require high priorities in international work, targeted assistance and targeted follow-up in each country. I want to point out a few of the goals that the centre party has been very busy with over many years. One is the need to ensure that as many people as possible have their basic needs met. It must have the highest priority both internationally and in our aid policy. Using more resources to give people safe access to water and food is an important topic that I think everyone is going to agree on, but it's not sure that we're all going to agree on how we achieve that goal, either internationally or nationally. Another objective that is also very important and perhaps fundamental to all the other objectives, in my view, is that one should achieve full equality between women and girls worldwide. It is at all difficult to conceive of sustainable growth in other areas without taking into account the competence of society as a whole, labour and creativity, and then the aim of ensuring young people's right to education and to decide over their own lives is very, very important. It is interesting that the interpellant raises a debate on how this can be followed up in the work of the Storting. I think there are a lot of opportunities for Stortinget to look at how we work on this question. Nevertheless, the follow-up to these objectives, both internationally and nationally, is also a matter of political priorities. We have to recognise that if we can agree on a great many of the goals, we will have different opinions on how to achieve the goals. That's where the political break-ups are. How one achieves the best possible food security, globally and nationally, is not necessarily conflict-free, and it is not certain that through the Greatness Delegations we will have exactly the same perception of how it will happen. Therefore, it is also important for me that any coordination or any attempt to have a common view of the Biggest should not end the fact that the Biggest is the sum of the political parties. We're going to be careful to depolitize important issues. There is a risk that it may be the result if it is such that one should try to pursue one’s attitudes, including: in the Storting Delegations, on these kinds of questions. That's why I think in some questions it might be difficult. The work of the Stortinge is carried out through the parties and as a sum of the parties' positions and the cooperation of the parties, and I would warn if there were to be some sort of own policy of accumulation through the Stortinge's own organs and its own administration. There is no such thing except the lots – there is no such thing. What exists is the work of the parties, their position, their cooperation and also the foreign policy line, which is primarily laid down by the government, after consulting the organs of the Stortinge. I think we are facing many interesting debates, both in the Stortinget and perhaps also through major delegations internationally. I also believe that we can share experiences from our own point of view – not least it is important in the area of civil society and governance. I believe that the whole issue of economic follow-up and budgetary follow-up is becoming very important, and I also believe that the interaction with expert councils in international forums can be an opportunity that lies there, which can be exploited better, but I think we should recognise that the main follow-up is the sum of party politics, and the Storting is the sum of the parties that sit there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e340	I would also like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for the interpellation. I think it is right and important that we have this debate so early after the Millennium Goals have been adopted, precisely to make our own role aware and to get the work going that needs to be done. What is the main role of the Storting? That's the task we have as the country's top political authority. Of course, that's all the leadership we give, both by law and by other means, to the government, and the budgets we adopt. That's the most important problem we have. And now we have a common commitment through an international agreement on common international objectives. I agree with the interpellant that we must also look at how we work, in addition to the obvious responsibility we have as a national assembly. We need to see if we can work better in the international forums where we also sit as single members, and look at how we can be involved and create a broader engagement through the form of work we have. The Millennium Goals have shown that these types of objectives, which have been adopted internationally and which appear to be very ambitious when they are adopted, have nevertheless had and have an enormous significance. The Millennium Goals have given an effect – whether it is to halve the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water, or to halve extreme poverty – and I am not sure if, when this was adopted, you really believed that it was possible to achieve within 15 years. So the eccentricity that this kind of goal creates is important. Many of the objectives in this consensus are a follow-up to the Millennium Goals, but with even greater ambitions towards 2030. Obviously, if you can imagine a world where you can eradicate poverty, it's a huge step in the world's history and mankind's history. What is completely fundamentally different about these objectives is the focus on sustainability. And there's no alternative. We need sustainable development in order to build open, free and good societies in the future. And there are many objectives – whether sustainable energy for all, sustainable growth, sustainable cities or sustainable consumption and production – while at the same time taking immediate action to stop climate change and secure biodiversity. These are ambitious objectives, which also require action in Norway. We have to follow up, and we have to work with the tools we have internationally. Of course, there is aid, but also in trade, cooperation with other countries and within the international organisations that we want to join, for example. with our own climate targets towards the EU, where we will reduce our own emissions by 40 pst. within 15 years. And then counts every year. We must have strong will every year, at each budget, to have some opportunity to achieve those objectives. I also think it is important that we not only think about the national assembly and the national, because, as I mentioned, one of the objectives is also to have sustainable cities and communities. Over 50 pst. the population of the world today lives in cities. It is clear that the inter-urban cooperative constellations are important. Norwegian cities can take a leading role in it. Oslo is an internationally leading environmental city and is recognised for it, especially within the large network C40. It is important that we, as a national Parliament, recognise both the importance they have and also build and support under that position. We should not underestimate the significance of the power of the example. Some have to show how to establish these sustainable cities, and this also has an effect internationally. Finally, there is a lot of talk about human rights and good governance. It is important to bear in mind that liberal democracies, well-managed, are the most important measures we have to combat climate change and achieve all the other objectives we have in the sustainability goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e359	It's a difficult promise that the world has got in place and is ready to agree on the sustainability goals that we've set. Norway has made considerable efforts, both the previous government and this government, to contribute constructively to the process. I just want to draw a line back to the thousand-year targets that we've had, and the evaluation of them. One of the clearest evaluations is that where the world has managed to gather on clear and concrete goals, which it is possible to measure, there is also where the greatest effort has come from the world, whether it has been done by aid or by other means, or it has been linked to people like Bill Gates or others who have been willing to spit in money. More ambitious objectives of the kind of fair international trade agreements are also more difficult to achieve than for the objectives that are clear and concrete. That is why I want to address two concrete objectives that Norway has had a role in producing. One is Objective No. 7, ‘Defordable and clean energy’, because Norway and Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende have been in the front internationally to ensure that the world decided that we should have sustainable energy access for all as a separate global sustainability target. Norway considered that it was important to achieve such an objective to ensure that the world prioritises money and efforts to do just that. There are well over 2 billion people in the world who cook over smoke-filled ovens or fires, and this leads to major health damage as well as deforestation. There are 1.3 billion people who don't have access to electricity. The objective of achieving such an objective has been to be able to mobilise the world to invest more money in renewable energy for all. What the government has done, after first being involved in fighting against such a target, is to reduce the allocation of renewable energy by 80 pst. over the last two years. How in the world can we expect the rest of the world leaders to give priority to access to renewable energy to poor countries in the world, when not even we, who have had a leading role in that struggle, are willing to lift, but on the contrary, kittens – and just before the climate summit, where the efforts for the poorest countries' energy supply and renewable energy supply are at the heart of the whole picture? That is the one question that I think it is right for the Prime Minister to answer. The second sustainability objective, which I think it is gratifying that we have achieved – because it was not within the first analyses and the first debates linked to sustainability goals – is objective No. 10, ‘Reduce inequality within and among countries’, in other words, reduced inequality. I believe that it is one of the things we have achieved, where we have taken the debate further from a narrow fight against poverty, exclusively, to look at the causes of poverty. If you just try to help the poor, but leave alone to attack the causes of poverty, you will never succeed in combating poverty over time. It's just working on a target that had reduced inequality inside as an essential element, in addition to the poverty reduction target, which I would say is an innovation. The second part of this is that these targets will not only apply to poor countries, but will apply to all countries in the world. Prime Minister Erna Solberg thus helped to establish that the world would reduce the differences between rich and poor parts of the world, but also within rich countries. This is a concrete objective, such as: Norway has helped, because we clearly say that one of the goals we're going to achieve, and the things we're going to measure, is that the 40 pst. with the lowest income in the country, shall have a higher income growth than the average population, which shall be gradual and continuous up to 2030. Then I think it is time to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: Did she mean it when she was in the process of signing – and was in the process of adopting – the new sustainability goals? Did she really mean when she said that the inequalities should be reduced? For it is impossible to recognise the objective of the budget submitted to Norway. Does she really think that the budget points towards gradually having a growth for the 40 pst. the poorest higher than average?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e376	Let me first thank you for a nice debate. I hope that this is something that the representatives, when they come back to their party groups and their party organisations, will also include. I think it's important that we anchor the sustainability targets as part of the party work. It is true, as the representative of Elvesuen said, that local and regional policies are also involved. We should all have the goal of asking the small control question when the programme for the next major choice is written: How does this programme relate to the sustainability objectives? I think that might be a little easy to say here, but in practice maybe not so easy, because we are very often torn by the daily running agenda, and it is often more nearsighted than what the sustainability goals invite. And of course, I agree with what the representative Arnstad said, that it's not about the Storting as an institution having any will. The size is the parties and the width of the positions of the parties, and the debate is the central one. It is a great strength if we agree on the objectives across this room. I think to a very large extent we agree on the objectives. Then we're going to disagree on the instruments, and we're going to disagree on the progress. We should be happy about that, because it is precisely the disunity that creates dynamics, that creates momentum, and that creates vitality in these themes. They're going to need that because they're big and many, and it's hard to identify many of them. I think that precisely that dynamics is important to also include in the international party groups, for example. to the Nordic Council. If what the Nordic Council needs, it is precisely a tougher debate on objectives and instruments – a stronger conflict, a conflict that is more driving for issues and is driving forward the Nordic perspective. The Nordic Council suffers from a consensus problem that would render Nordic cooperation harmless and give too little attention to media and other areas. It's a trap we have to work against in terms of further work on sustainability goals. With that, I would just like to thank the Prime Minister for – I think – a good review and the representatives of a fine debate. Then I hope that we take this further, and that we take the sustainability goals with us as a premise in the further political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e388	I am pleased to note that there is broad support in the Stortingen for the sustainability goals. I think Marit Arnstad is quite right that there will be different discussions on different topics, on how we achieve the goals, and on what policies are being pursued. So there will be a lot of room for good Norwegian national political debate in the future. The government will be a driver for follow-up both at home and outside. We're going to build on the Millennium Goals, we're going to build on the Rio Process, and we're going to work on it. I just want to remind you that we have achieved many good results. The Millennium Goals have been the most important development effort ever made by the United Nations. Extreme poverty is more than halved, to about 700 million people. It's 1 billion fewer poor, while the population of the world has grown by 2 billion. So we know at the same time that it's going to be hard to reach the last group, because many of them live in conflict areas, they live in areas where it gets worse. They need a lot of not just money, but help. One of the reasons why this government is so concerned, among other things. ensuring that training is provided in conflict areas is to ensure that there are future opportunities afterwards and that the establishment of a normal society is speeded up. The refugee crisis means that we need to strengthen humanitarian aid, both at home and outside. We need to do this in conflict zones and neighbourhoods. I myself was in Lebanon and Jordan recently and saw how important it is – if Syria, Jordan and Lebanon are to work in the future – to raise education, raise food/nutrition and avoid long-term damage to vulnerable individuals and communities. Then we want to have a discussion about what's the most effective aid, about how we're going to solve it. Now the difference is not that the working party uses approx. 2.2 B.C.E. less in its alternative out-of-office budget, and the fact that the government has proposed 4.2 billion. kr to cover the refugee costs, the very large and decisive, but I see that the priority of cutting education is still maintained, which I believe is a wrong priority in these days. This is a very basic priority in the future. Yes, we were both conscious and concerned about doing something about the differences, but we'll probably have different attitudes about how we solve the differences in our own country as well. When the government put forward a escalating plan against drugs on Friday, it was precisely because it is part of removing inequalities in Norway to ensure that people return to work. The biggest difference in Norway is between those who are out of work and those who are in it. This is why – e.g. in response to the refugee crisis we now have – integration policy is a very important part to get people to work quickly. As developments are, Norway is going to cut worse in terms of these criteria in the first few years, but we will see that we are getting better out, precisely because we are able to achieve a better integration policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e405	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e419	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e426	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. We give an overall view of the issues raised in the Ministry's proposal for changes to the law of instruction, but we are divided into a question raised in committee on temporary work permits for asylum seekers waiting for the asylum application to be dealt with. The proposals for amendments to the Introduction Act relate to three aspects: first, the question of the right of leave from the introduction programme for the second, the question of evidence of knowledge of society for exemption from compulsory training for 50 hours of social knowledge for the third, a change that places the municipalities responsible for initiating training in Norwegian and social sciences for adults and immigrants. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal that participants in the introduction programme be entitled to leave in the event of an offer of regular work. We believe that participation in the labour market is central, but will give the individual the right to return to a non-completed training course. It will provide flexibility, and it will facilitate better integration. However, the Committee reserves the right to leave the introduction programme. Today it is possible to stay for six months in the context of a stay abroad. Allowance is also granted for those on maternity leave. In a proposal from a single committee, we ask the government to propose amendments to reduce the absence of the introduction programme. I find it difficult to accept that the law facilitates a longer stay abroad during the introduction period. Then there's a little bit different with maternity leave, where there has to be more flexibility. However, for most women, if well organised, it will be possible to continue to participate in the introduction programme even while they are on maternity leave. It will be important to ensure continuity in Norwegian training and to contribute to faster integration into Norwegian society. A Joint Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal that exemptions may no longer be granted to social education rights and obligations, even if the individual has sufficient knowledge in Norwegian. Knowledge of social life is important for integration into society and working life. Therefore, any exemption from training in social sciences must be demonstrated on the basis of knowledge in this area, not on the basis of good Norwegian knowledge alone. In today’s legislation, individual immigrants have the formal responsibility to make demands for participation in the introduction programme. Municipalities are responsible for providing training. The Committee shares the Ministry's view that it is desirable to place this responsibility on the municipalities. It is the municipal authorities that need to inform immigrants about their rights in the introduction programme and take the initiative to start training as soon as possible. The Committee considers that legal adjustment can contribute to the participation and completion of training, which increases the possibility of rapid integration and participation in the labour market. Finally, I would like to justify why the Centre Party cannot join the comment of the Committee minority on the opening of a temporary work permit for asylum seekers awaiting the examination of the asylum application. No one disagrees that it is important for the integration process to get out of work quickly. This was also discussed at Stortinget's treatment of Prop. 152 S for 2014-2015, on additional appropriations following an increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway. Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act requires that the identity of the asylum seeker be clarified before a work permit is granted. We believe that there are good reasons to stick to that provision. It's not desirable that we have people out in work that we don't know the identity of. Providing a work permit regardless of identity clearance would also not be stimulating to help get facts on the table from each asylum seeker. And in the light of yesterday's debate, the extended right to a temporary work permit will be a completely wrong signal to send, in my opinion. For the treatment of Prop. 152 S. had a special comment with the Workers' Party, where we stress that the condition of Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act that there is no doubt about the identity of the applicant should continue to be maintained at the time of the work permit. In the Center Party, we stand firm on that point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e455	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for both a good and a clean job. What we are doing today is to strengthen the working line and to strengthen the conditions for adults to immigrate in order to be able to take an active part in professional and social life. We know that there are considerable differences in employment between different groups of immigrants, and there are considerable differences between women and men in the proportion who are in work or education the year after they left the introduction programme. There's also a big difference between the municipalities, and this we have to even out. In order to initiate and start training in language and social skills, municipalities will hopefully be able to achieve better integration and better and more equal opportunities. When a person should now also be entitled to leave in the event of an offer of regular work in order to have the right to return to unaccompanied training, it could provide the necessary flexibility for the individual, as the rapporteur said. The Labour Party is pleased that everyone agreed to make proposals that we ask the government to propose amendments to reduce the absence of the introduction programme and rules that ensure the participation of women in the programme also during maternity leave. It is important to reduce the periods during which participants are away from the programme, in order to ensure progress in language training, and maternity leave allows some women to lose the opportunity to make progress. Several municipalities have stated that these changes could impose on them increased responsibilities and increased costs. The Committee believes that it is important that local authorities' responsibility for the settlement and integration of immigrants be given financial instruments to cover the costs of doing the important job. The Labour Party is convinced that if we don't now do what we can for good integration from day one, we can eventually get a big bill in jail. Then language, housing and work are a prerequisite for success. That's what we're doing today. We're going to measure it in the future. I said in the beginning that the Workers' Party is occupied with the line of work. A unanimous committee believes that this legislative adjustment can contribute to the participation of more people and the completion of the programme at an early stage of their stay in Norway. It increases the possibility of rapid integration and participation in the labour market. It is strange then, I think, that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not be able to participate in the training, and that there is room for different types of training provision, and that one will not be involved in providing training in the receptions. Perhaps the strangest thing is that the Progress Party and the Right will not participate in opening up temporary work permits for asylum seekers awaiting examination of the application – a proposal that was unanimously adopted in this Chamber a month ago. The asylum seekers who are here today can also have it today when they have been given the identity and have been subjected to the asylum interview. The problem is that the waiting time for the asylum interview today is very long, and when we know that very many of those sitting on reception will be allowed to stay, they should – if they can – get a job. We have therefore unanimously agreed here that the criteria relating to asylum interview should be assessed. Then I find it strange that the Right Party and the Progress Party – and I hear the explanation of vote of the Centre Party – are now going back on what we have even seen in the media, not the Center Party, trying to create a picture of this proposal, that it is something other than what it really is. Now there are many asylum seekers. A very large proportion of them are going to stay here. Then it's to cut language, cut daily money and – even – distribution of food vouchers not the way to go so that they can get to live life with us out here. So it would have been interesting and important – also because the Right has specifically pulled this case up and out into public space – to hear what has changed in the last month that makes them unable to be involved in this today, namely to open up temporary work permits on the grounds that it is the asylum interview and waiting time for what takes too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e481	For the Progress Party, good integration has always been important. I am proud to be a member of a party that was the first to see the need for Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants. Language and social skills are a means of achieving good integration. I am therefore pleased that the Storting joins these improvements in the introduction law proposed by the government today. The introduction programme for newcomers and training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants aims to strengthen immigrants’ leadership in order to be actively involved in their professional and social life. We must not forget, however, that there are major differences in employment — many of whom have been involved — between different groups of immigrants. It makes training in social skills and making demands even more important. There are also large differences between women and men in the proportion of work or education that occurred the year after they left the programme. There are also large differences between municipalities in the proportion of work or education after leaving the programme. These differences – as others have also mentioned – we have to work actively and aim to reduce, and I think a little bit of the key is that the municipalities that are good have to be rental stars for the others, and that we have to look at those who are closed and learn from them. In most cases, good Norwegian knowledge is an obligation to get a job, and the amendment of the law is a follow-up to the government platform at this point. The changes will make it easier to combine work and introduction programs, which is a practical, sensible change. Participation in the labour market is one of the most important means of integration. Both the author and the representative of the Labour Party have been included in the formulation that has produced the most media review since a decision was taken, i.e. the possibility of giving job opportunities to people who are waiting for their asylum application to be processed. I also record that the Labour Party from the Chair is quite offensively challenging the Right and the Progress Party, even though they are in the media, in the days after she was released, having a great need to dissociate themselves from the contents of the same note they were in when the option was released. I think it's strange that one kind of talks with two tongues. It is not difficult for us to explain the difference between what we had in the past, simply to ask the government to settle and look at this issue, versus to write that one, in fact without any explanation and without evaluation, the government asked for a new right at a time when the asylum strike to Norway is great. That symbol means a lot. This is a liberalisation and not a narrowing, which we need every day. So there's a big difference between being a part of asking the government to look at something and asking the government to do something actually without any explanation. For this reason, I am pleased that the Central Party and the President-in-Office, together with the Government Party, are so clear that there is no time for – without the government having done a job in advance – just to say that we should give a new right in this way. On the other hand, we are pleased that a joint committee is involved in streamlining, because signal means a lot in the current situation. The Committee believes it is important to reduce the periods when participants are away from the programme, in order to ensure progress in language training. This also applies in the context of maternity leave, where there will be an even longer delay. Several birth permits cause some women to lose the possibility of a smooth progression. The Committee therefore calls on the government to submit proposals for changes to reduce possible withdrawals from the introduction programme and to facilitate practical provision for women to receive language instruction in connection with maternity leave. The step-by-step is pleased that a group of caverns want faster progress and more effective integration by setting stricter requirements. It benefits the individual immigrant, and it benefits society otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e498	Let me also thank the rapporteur for a well-worked and presented attitude. There is a thread from the introduction of the Introduction Act and the Introduction Programme in its time, under the then municipal minister Erna Solberg, and until today. In Norway, we have a very well-worked and good system of receiving those who come to Norway and who are to be integrated. It is not that all countries have the kind of arrangements that we have, which are so well worked through, that provide predictability for municipalities, and that provide security for a good setup to be able to be introduced to Norwegian society, to Norwegian employment, to the Norwegian education system, to become citizens and citizens in that country. The present proposal today shows that it is necessary to constantly adjust and adapt to the needs we see. Therefore, it is good that we facilitate the possibility of taking leave to get into work, if one gets work – that not the best thing is going to be the enemy of the good, to say so. We've had good intentions in the law, but when it turns out that it doesn't work for the best of integration, we're willing to make changes. The permit option is an example of that. A number of possibilities for exemption are now regulated by documented societal skills, and it is also made clear that municipalities have an obligation of initiative to provide an introduction programme. There should be no doubt about it, although some municipalities say they think it is a bit difficult. I think it is quite appropriate that we get it sorted out, that it is not only a requirement for demand from the arrivals, but also an obligation to offer by the municipalities. I am also very pleased that the Committee has agreed to ask the government to look further at the possibility of preventing, for example: women on maternity leave fall out of the integration process and language training, which may present a danger today. Finally, I would like to say that I do not think the Workers' Party needs to play so surprised that several of us are surprised at their attitude and what they write in the note together with a minority, that it is now obvious that all asylum seekers, regardless of their status, should be able to be given a work permit. It is, as the rapporteur pointed out, a change of line, and I think it is positive and constructive that the rapporteur from the Central Party marks it, that they are on the line they say they have been with the Workers' Party before, and that here the Workers' Party is giving new signals. So it would be good to clarify once and for all whether the Workers' Party is in favour of that remark and that line change, or whether you want to withdraw the signal you send out into the world, that all asylum seekers, regardless of their status, should be able to obtain work permits in Norway. In the times we have now, when we discuss different forms of tightening up our own legislation, but also the way we send signals from the political debate, it would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e513	For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to ensure good and rapid integration. The exceptional situation of high asylum arrivals makes it particularly important and absolutely necessary to address the situation quickly and in the long term. Getting out of work is one of the keys to ensuring good integration. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to open up leave from the introduction programme when a person has been offered work. Such flexibility is essential for the proper functioning of the introduction programme, as the aim is to allow people to get to work as quickly as possible. This leads to faster integration and faster participation and return to society. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a flexible introduction programme and that greater flexibility and individual organisation of training in Norwegian and social skills are important to ensure that we get into Norwegian society as quickly as possible. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to require evidence of social knowledge by exempting from social education. Today, it is sufficient that people who can refer to good Norwegian knowledge may be exempted from the scheme, but there is not necessarily a link between good Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of that society. Long absences and stays in the introduction programme should be avoided and provision should be made for the possibility for women on maternity leave to continue training, even if they are on leave. This may prevent progress from stagnating and the integration process from taking longer than is necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Committee's proposals in the vote, where we ask the government to propose amendments to reduce the absence of the introduction programme. As a consequence of the extraordinary situation we now find ourselves in, we know that many will remain at reception for a long time. Therefore, it is important to start training already in reception. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important that those asylum seekers who are likely to stay in the country could perhaps have the opportunity to participate in the labour market and get a work permit. Today's extraordinary situation requires that we use all resources, so that we ensure good integration and use the voluntary actors. With regard to the training of the introduction programme, the voluntary actors may contribute. They are an important resource for good integration. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to give the municipalities the obligation to take the initiative to start the training, so that it can take place as soon as possible, and that as far as possible complete the training within the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e532	With an increase in the number of asylum seekers we have had in the autumn, the introduction system is more important than ever. Good language training and rapid inclusion in working and social life are essential for the integration of those who are staying, and also for those who will be here for a short or longer time. While we are taking measures to reduce the influx of groundless asylum seekers, we must also take action for those who are in reception throughout the country. For this is about people and not just about billions, it's about people who will be living for a short or long time, and we have to make sure that we get integrated into Norwegian society. How much is going to be the cost depending on how well we can integrate them. Work is the key to good integration, and asylum seekers today have no opportunity to work until they have been on asylum interviews. Staying on reception for months, not to mention years, is a passive and destructive thing for good integration. It is particularly serious when you can expect more people to remain in reception, and therefore it is important that we have their skills mapped. Training from abroad must be applied for, practical competence must be tested, and temporary work permit must be granted from day one. By granting a work permit, the business community is given the opportunity to provide thorough guidance, practice areas, job guidance and activation and work training through various small and large tasks. The business community would like to contribute to the national effort we are doing well, and then the temporary work permit rules need to be changed. The integration offer in receptions needs to be improved now as it is assumed that many will remain longer in reception. Work and language training are central. Furthermore, it is necessary to link both voluntary actors and local businesses in order to ensure activity and inclusion. It is particularly important that children are offered activities in kindergarten or in reception, and the voluntary sector also needs to be included more in integration work. This is a meeting between people – a teacher of culture and social life and is given the opportunity to establish networks locally. It's part of the debate today that I have to say I'm a little surprised when we finished the suspension, perhaps most surprised because a decision was made a few weeks in advance, and then it becomes a violent, long round of a remark, a note that in many ways only supports that we want to get people out of activity – from passivity – which will definitely be a cost saving. And then I realize that the government and the Center Party don't see it the way the minority in the committee does. I have to say that I am very surprised by the contributions that have been so far to refute that decision as a large majority in the Storting – if it was not in agreement – did 14 days in advance. And then to substantiate the committee in the form of a note, which is actually less vague in form than what was decided, I must say, am greatly surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e545	SV supports the legislative changes, but I have to comment on the debate that continues today on sending out signals in the world about being strict. Then the signals must go to those who do not have grounds for asylum in Norway. Sending constant signals that it is going to be more stringent to integrate into Norway, to be here, to get work and integration started quickly, to be with the family, to have money to live on, to scare away real asylum seekers who have protection grounds – yes, I’m not so surprised that the Progress Party does so, but I’m very surprised that Right is involved. This is about protection for those who are entitled to protection. Then we must not destroy the integration with such proposals. On the very matter: I hear that the committee leader is very concerned that there are more women among the immigrant population who do not work as much as the population else. I am so old that when I was young, it was considered right for women to be home when they had children. It takes some time, but then it's awfully stupid that the government has doubts about the cash support scheme that pays these women to be at home, to keep themselves away from work and education and to keep the kids away from kindergarten, which is the most important integration area that exists. Rather, these women could be paid to participate in empowerment measures. It would have been much better. SV has today promoted a Document 8 proposal that goes straight into the matter we are dealing with. This proposal for a document seeks to make the necessary regulatory changes to measures to ensure that minority speakers are given the opportunity to combine language training, introduction systems, Norwegian training rights and obligations and other formal training and work schemes, using the model of the trials carried out in Sogn and Fjordane and Trondheim, which are now under way at Røros. Language training in the introduction programme is used as part of the training of health professionals in an exchange model, and you must not wait to learn Norwegian first. There are probably several people who got the entry from the Gloppen in Sogn and Fjordane, about an Eritrean who had taken health-care workers training according to this model, and it works very well. But then the Nav leader stands out and says here we need rule changes to get more of this. There are many such changes that we need to look at now, so that people can get on with competent training combined with the introduction system. Flexibility here needs to be much greater. I think we have to start looking at those who are coming, as a resource. A lot of them are very competent people, and we have to treat them as responsible adult people if we're to expect them to act as responsible adult people. I would like to quote from Mr Helgesen's statement in the Storting about 14 days ago. There he says: ‘The challenges faced by an ageing population by several European countries can be mitigated by immigration and migration’ – and he says – ‘provided that those who come are well integrated and able to take part in the labour market’. He also says that Norway has the same challenges to a lesser extent, but the exact same challenges. That's why it's very strange to listen to this debate. It sounds like the most dangerous thing we can do is people are going to support themselves with honest, sensible work. What the government should do is to get the system right now, so that those who are going to have a return get their case processed quickly and returned, and those who are likely to get their case dealt with quickly and can start working and getting started on integration and settlement. It's absolutely necessary to do that, because people get sick and lose their jobs by sitting and staring in the wall at a reception for years. First, wait one year for an asylum interview, then wait for a procedure and then wait for several years before you settle in a municipality. Here's the time to think about new things about the whole system. The government now has a great responsibility to bring down the trial period for these people that we know will be, and we have to make sure that those who can support themselves with honest work are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e567	I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that supports the proposals in the matter we are dealing with today. Then I can assure the representative Karin Andersen that the government is working in several areas in this field, and the most important thing right now is to get quick returns and quick processing – so that those who are going to be here get the message, and those who are not going to be here must be sent out. Immigrants – both women and men – need to use their resources and contribute to the community. Participation in the labour market we know is the key to integration. Work is important for individuals and it is important for us to be able to maintain and further develop the welfare state that we have. For me, it is important that we have clear expectations, demands that all citizens support and contribute to society. This also applies to those who are new in the country. In order to exploit the labour that new arrivals bring with them, a good job needs to be done with the introduction programme and Norwegian training. I am very concerned about the challenging situation we are now facing, with more in reception for longer periods and more in qualification in the municipalities. For most newly arrived refugees, good Norwegian skills will be a prerequisite for getting a job. Controlling Norwegian, both in writing and orally, is part of the key prerequisites for participation in society — as parents, in the local community and in non-governmental organisations. It is important for those receiving a residence permit to start training quickly in Norwegian and social knowledge. It is important that several of those participating in the introduction programme get into work after the end of the programme. The arrangements are flexible and the content shall be adapted to the individual's background and assumption. With the large number of refugees who will be allowed to stay in the country in the future, and with the wide variation between them in education and work experience, it is important that municipalities make use of the flexibility already in the schemes to obtain good results. This work is becoming more important than ever before. In the two years I've been a state councillor, I've visited a lot of municipalities, and I've seen that there are huge differences between municipalities in the work they do on integration. Many municipalities point to very much the same thing as the representatives have mentioned in their posts here: lack of flexibility, lack of a good working relationship with the business community to get people to work faster. There is a flexibility in this today, but I still see that our systems are not good at talking to each other. It is also one of the main tasks of the government when we now work with integration: to get both the Nav, the Husbank, the business community and voluntary teams and organisations to work with the municipalities, and not to let rules override the important work that we need to focus on, that the individual must receive language training – and that language training can be done in the workplace – and that this work is intensified outside the municipalities. There are many good suggestions in the Committee's position. I am pleased with this and believe that the proposals put forward here will also help to improve the flexibility and impact of the schemes. The Committee also proposes a request decision to propose amendments to reduce absenteeism from the introduction programme and rules to ensure the participation of women in the introduction programme and Norwegian training, including during maternity leave. It is an important proposal that I can promise Stortinget that we will now take with us in the work we are doing here. A majority also notes that temporary work permits must be opened for asylum seekers awaiting the examination of the asylum application. It is already the case today after the foreign regulation that applicants may receive a temporary work permit if they submit an approved travel document or national ID card. The major problem in practice is that many do not get such permits, as they cannot prove their identity. When it comes to proposals that everyone who comes here should be given a work permit from day one, I believe – like what the Prime Minister replied just a week ago – that it will be wrong in the time we now have to send such signals. The most important thing we can do now is to quickly map those who come here and have to stay. The government has added money to the next year's budget. It's done to ensure that we get a quick settlement, that we can get flexibility in our systems, so we see the individual. Individuals must receive Norwegian training, and they must also receive work practices so that they can participate and contribute to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e597	In the pulpit, the Council of State now pointed out what I also pointed out in my post, that one today can grant temporary work permits, but then there must have been evidence of a proven identity. When the Council of State spoke from the pulpit now, it seemed as if the Council of State also believed that a month ago this Parliament had intended to waive that requirement. There is no one in this room, I think, who believes that one should not prove his identity. The whole question of this is that you stay in reception for a long time because you are waiting for the asylum interview. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that if an early Norwegian learns, then one will be better integrated than if one waits a long time before starting to learn Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e602	I fully agree with the representative Sund that one of the most important things we can do is to identify the individual who has been accommodated, and that we can get started quickly with Norwegian training. There are opportunities for today. The individual is given the opportunity to have 650 hours – if I do not remember correctly – with Norwegian training, but we see that very many of them do not use Norwegian training, and the municipalities are very disappointed, because when they get into the municipalities, they have not received the Norwegian training they are going to have. In the situation we're facing, it's likely that the individual will have to wait longer in reception before entering a municipality. Therefore, it is important that we intensify Norwegian training for those who have been legally resident, but also look at how we can combine it with labour-oriented practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e609	I just want to repeat: there is no one in this room who believes that those who have not received a documented identity will receive a temporary work permit. I have to ask: does the Council of State think that assessing new criteria – which a unanimous vote, including with the Progress Party, which is the party of the Council of State – related to asylum interview, considers that allowing people to sit not only for months, but perhaps for years on end, could lead to better integration? And is it that the Council of State thinks that a comment in this setting is -- I kept saying -- lighter than the decision that we actually made here in the Stortingen a month ago. It was decided a month ago that this should be assessed, and that is the same thing as repeated in this note, and the same purpose on which it is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e614	The majority has taken a decision asking the government to consider new measures. There is a work being done by the government, but the comment from a majority is that temporary work permits should be opened for asylum seekers waiting for the asylum application to be processed. It is now possible to provide approved travel documents or national ID cards. But sending out signals now that everyone who comes here will get a temporary work permit from day one, are signals that the government does not want to send out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e619	I think we all agree that participation in the labour market is the most important thing when it comes to the integration of refugees, but we share in terms of the requirement for identity clearance laid down in Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act. I believe it is natural to make a claim on it before a person is given the opportunity to go out in ordinary work. On the other hand, there are many, including myself, who believe that we need to better facilitate the provision of activities to residents of asylum recipients that make everyday life meaningful and that can also be labour-oriented activity – such as work on asylum recipients, language training, public or private employment, better organisation to participate in voluntary work, etc. It can contribute to contact with the Norwegian community and qualify for employment after having received a residence and work permit. How does the Council of State feel that better provision can be made for such activity and for labour-oriented measures for residents of reception facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e628	I fully agree with Mr Greni that activity is important both for those who have been accommodated and for those who are waiting for their application to be dealt with. I want to praise the very many voluntary teams and organisations that stand up and are involved in this important work and make it possible for more people to have an activity and that there will not be too much of their sitting down. So it's important also, I think, that we separate a little bit here. It is that everyone who is in receipt today, regardless of their residence status, is entitled to Norwegian training. My main concern is to focus on those who have been legally allowed to stay, that we will start monitoring them quickly and quickly with Norwegian training. In this way, they are better prepared for work when they are going to the municipalities. We also need to look at and identify their competences, see if there can be multiple tracks in this introduction program. Some people need a little longer time, some people need a shorter time. This is a work that is now going on too fully, and we are going to come back to this in the big message that the government has announced to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e635	We still see media headlines that there is a lack of cleaning in refugee receptions etc. It was a media look-up yesterday from the Council. I think that we now have to go through and look at how we operate asylum recipients. Is it such that the reception residents can participate more actively in the operation of reception? There's a lot of people sitting here and having trouble getting time to go. Should we now change the operation, so that they participate to an even greater extent in cooking, cleaning – the daily operation of the receptions – instead of sitting and having nothing to spend time with? Are there any thoughts in the department that we need to look at changes here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e640	Now it is the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice who is responsible for our reception structure today. But I cannot ignore the fact that it is important that the residents at reception should also be able to participate in both cooking and cleaning in order to be active in the receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e645	I guess we all agree that activity is significantly better than passivity. Then I'm a little surprised that it's called a signaling, it's stronger in a comment than in a decision made 14 days ago. Through 20 years of political activity, I have always believed that a decision was a tighter form than a comment. I also thought that a decision was a tighter kind of signal. A total collapse agreed with the signal contained in the decision made 14 days ago. Does not the Council share the view that a decision is a much stronger form of signal than a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e654	The decision in Stortinget is a request decision to be followed by the government. I see the point of the representative, and there will be a discussion at Stortinget on how to interpret comments. Nevertheless, I would like to say that comments are read, and comments written by an overall committee are also part of the follow-up that the government is doing, no matter what matters it is. A request decision is to report back how we follow, but we also read and follow up comments. With regard to this comment, I believe that the law we have today ensures what goes on a work permit for those who can provide both travel documents and ID cards. To say that everyone should receive a work permit from day one, for whatever reason, at least the government and the undersigned do not think the right signal to send.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e661	The government has specialized in saying one thing and doing something else. Now the Minister says to ‘intensify Norwegian training’ in the waiting period. Then we have just presented a budget where we have reduced the number of hours of Norwegian education from 250 to 175. This means less Norwegian education at the time, which is now increasing explosively because the government has not taken the signals in time and has remanded the apparatus to deal with these applications, so that people can actually clarify their situation and settle. Then I have to ask the very simple question to the minister: Is Norwegian education really 175 hours more than 250 hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e669	I just want to start by saying when the representative Andersen talks about the government not having taken the signals in time, that Karin Andersen's party has been sitting with the Minister for Integration for almost eight years. It's only now that they start talking about integration. It received 5,000 when we took over, so we've been able to get a historic settlement work out in the municipalities in the last two years. When we talk about the extraordinary situation that we are now seeing, with the large number that is coming, it is not possible to get enough Norwegian teachers in place to give everyone the Norwegian training that is there today. Therefore, the government has reduced the number of Norwegian hours to those waiting for a stay from 250 to 175. They receive Norwegian training, but we want to use the means and Norwegian teachers we now have to intensify the Norwegian language for those who have been legally resident and who are to be settled in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e676	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e681	This has been a bit of a strange debate to follow, to be completely honest. The chairperson of the Committee, Njåstad, is proud to be in a party that early on saw the importance of Norwegian training. Then it is a paradox that his own party in government – now we are aware that there is a slight difference between the Progress Party in government and the Stortinget, but nevertheless – proposes to cut drastically in Norwegian training in reception. It will have implications for the introduction programme. At that time, people in the introduction programme will be less prepared, and that is bad for integration. Then the representative Jensen from the Right talks about the Workers' Party having completed a line break. Then I would recommend the representative to read this setting and the setting that went on the additional proposition earlier this year, a little bit better. In this comment today, we say that we should ‘open up temporary work permits for asylum seekers’. That is the reality today – it is not a line break. It confirms what is stated in Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which opens up today – that you have to open it up, and then it is the law that further narrows down who will get it. But with regard to the comment today, we don't have to discuss in this room whether it is more intrusive or more obligatory to the government than a Roman number decision taken in this room. Of course it's more binding. And then I would just remind you that there was a unanimous committee that was behind the proposal, which said: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of proposals for new criteria to facilitate the granting of a temporary work permit while the application for asylum is pending.’ That's what's the essence, that's what's important, and it's all the parts of the Storing. So how this debate has been very heated up because of a remark that says it's fine with work permits, I can't believe to the best of my ability. I agree with Mr Schou, who said in the VG on 12 October: ‘The situation with the massive increase in the number of asylum seekers means that we need to think again. If asylum seekers with an unexplained application come to work and manage themselves while in Norway, it can contribute to the local economy’. I fully agree with that, and that is what a total mass has asked for. From the Workers' Party's side, it is only to read the setting of the supplementary proposal a month ago, where we are quite clear that the requirements of Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act that there must be no doubt about identity are established. There's a note with the Center Party. So it's not the Workers' Party that has to figure out what they mean, it's the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e700	It's an important matter we're dealing with, and I'm also going to focus on the exercise that somebody's trying to do. That's quiet. I also record that someone is surprised that there is a round on a note, and argues that it is a so-called cost-saving remark. Now it may not be so strange that it is the remark that gets attention, when someone also tried to sell out a note that at that time had a majority, such as trying to instruct the government to now get temporary work permits, as it says, while ‘waiting for the treatment of the asylum application’. Today it is fully possible to grant a work permit to those who are waiting to clarify their asylum application. However, it requires a number of things, and these are the assumptions that are not included in that remark, namely that they have reached the age of 18, that they are treated for their asylum application, and that they have helped to clarify their identity. It's opening doors, it's already there as an opportunity today. But if it's an accident at work that you come up with these kinds of comments, where these assumptions, in the form of an observation in the Great Britain, are not met, then there's a new policy, at least from the Workers' Party. In other words, while one has not clarified — not reached the age of 18 and has not clarified its identity — one must have both UDI, UNE and other organisations to start working with them, in a situation where we have a strong influx of asylum seekers in need of protection, but also asylum seekers who do not have it and who do not have these requirements. Then I have to quote my Prime Minister, who says, "This is the wrong timing." It's not just the wrong timing, but it's dangerous. It is dangerous in the sense that if you have not established an identity, if you have not reached the age of 18, and if you have not received your application for treatment for residence on the basis of the asylum institution, you do not enter the open, organised, proper labour market. These are not the ones that are first in line with the labour market in an overheated system where our organisations have more than enough work to do. Then it's the black labour market. It is seen as liberalisation, and so it is not too late to turn around, especially for the Workers' Party, which, with this remark, signals something quite different. It would have been quite fine if that comment had been made, but one has to repeat that there are some criteria: more than 18 years old, ID clearance and the processing of the asylum application.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e707	I really didn't intend to take the word in this case, because I think a lot of what is in the setting here today is good. The games agree on a lot. I was actually going to let what I thought was a work accident, pass like that. But now, through the debate, I hear that the Labour Party believes that it is not an accident at work, and that we have misunderstood it. Then I would like to read two things, and then I would like the representatives of the Workers' Party to try to hear the difference. Today, if you want to work while applying for protection for treatment, it is necessary, among other things. that asylum interviews have been carried out, that they have been documented and that they are over 18 years of age. It is said here and again that it is a matter of course, but in the comment it says: «Open temporary work permit for asylum seekers». There my colleague, the representative Stine Renate Håheim of the Workers' Party, stopped and did not read the rest, which says: ‘waiting for the examination of the asylum application.’ This means that, in practice, there is a desire to open work permits from day one, without the asylum application being dealt with, without the implementation of the asylum interview, without any evidence of identity, and without being over 18 years old. Then the Workers' Party will continue to say: Yes, but that's not the way it is, that's not what we mean, of course. But if you've written it, I guess you'll get to write the rest, too – if you don't get to be honest and say this is an accident at work. If I have not misunderstood the rules of the Storting completely, it is probably still opening up so that the Workers' Party can draw that remark and ensure that it is recorded. But saying that we have misunderstood is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e726	This debate could have been largely avoided if the government had seen the situation that came, in the past, had replaced the case handler device in the UDI – that is what I was talking about – in such a way that it was possible to deal with the applications and that we had not seen the explosion in increased waiting time that is now happening, also in order to get to the asylum interview. I believe that if you have a good asylum application but are traumatised, you can risk not having a good interview when that time comes. If you have a bad application, I think the jam you have enough time to find out some good excuses. This is not good. It's also time to think about resettlement. What we're doing now is slow, passivating and expensive. SV was sent out when we were in government, a new settlement proposal at the hearing – the Council of State knows – that would have changed this, so that we do not do so in the expensive, slow and destructive way that we do today, namely, by getting fast procedures and quick settlement for those who are going to be, and can get started on integration fast. Because that's important. Getting started on integration and work quickly is the most important thing to succeed in achieving good integration, states councillor Solvency Horne in his proposition. She's absolutely right, and then we have to do it. 175 hours of Norwegian training is much less than 250 hours of Norwegian training. Unfortunately, I don't believe that the government is able to bring down this waiting time at the receptions, and so people are going to be sitting there, with a lot less Norwegian education, because then, after several years of almost passiveness, coming out and going to start the introduction program. Then the assumptions are much worse. It's our whole business. As far as possible, we want people to get started with the introduction and integration of day one. Therefore, SV also proposes in its budget that municipalities be compensated for 100 pst. for the costs of the entire introduction system and the integration grant, so that we can put in place a housing scheme and get this started quickly. It's not up to a government council to say, from Stortinget's pulpit, that you put more on Norwegian training when you actually cut it. It's some kind of word game that I think is completely unworthy. We can't do it this way. If you don't find money for this, it's a matter for the government to take responsibility for, but at the same time you can't sit and say that you're strengthening something that you're actually weakening. It at least weakens the confidence of all the government says.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e737	I have to say, I think this is just getting weirder and weirder. Actually, I get some déjà vu back to the debate yesterday, when the representative Tetzschner from the Right was up in the pulpit and had some pictures inside his head that I think it was just him who saw. I also now feel that representatives from the Right have some pictures inside my head that I am a little unsure about if anyone else than they see – nevertheless with all due respect. We're not trying to calm down, and there's no work accident. Not all asylum seekers shall be granted a temporary work permit. There was never anyone who said when we dealt with this Roman number decision a month ago. Even the representative Karin Andersen – and others – I believe that what led us to that decision, and that it became unanimous, was that it was linked to the asylum interview. No one in this room thought a month ago that it should not be tied up with identity in the continuation, that it should not be tied up with age in the continuation. Now I say it again -- like many people who have said this for a month -- and I make it clear that this is what we meant, and this is what we mean now. I feel that someone is reading this document just like some other reader – I kept saying – other documents, I'm not quite sure what it's really allowed to say from this pulpit. This is not a work accident. So not everyone is going to get a temporary work permit, but we think, as we thought a month ago, that opening up temporary work permits and then getting new criteria on the asylum interview can be wise in an integration context. Even the Council of State said from the pulpit that it is more important than ever that one get to work as quickly as possible, and that the important and correct instruments are being set in motion at the right time. I don't know how much more it really takes to say, but I think the right hand might start listening when we say what we mean. Then they can continue to read documents exactly how they want to – but maybe turn the good side a little bit and don't create stories and images that are actually not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e748	The President will state that Sund referred to a certain other document in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e751	First, let me offer a complaint to Mr. Kapur that I did not quote the whole sentence of the decision, but it is in a way implicit that an asylum seeker has an application for treatment. So it shouldn't be so confusing. I believe that the comment that is underlying today, where we say that one should ‘open up for temporary work permit’, is in no way related to any drama. We do not need to instruct the government in this matter today, for it has already done a unanimous greatness just weeks ago. Then there was an overall increase asking for an evaluation of proposals for new criteria for more people to receive a temporary work permit. Today we do not have the right to change Section 94 and the requirements for identity. If the right had read the position that we made a few weeks ago, it would be seen that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have a comment together where we say that ‘the condition of Section 94 of the Foreign Affairs Act that there is no doubt about the identity of the applicant shall be maintained’. [[...]] Then, of course, we could choose to ask why the Right Party and the Advance Party were not on that note. What kind of signals does it send out? If we were going to be wrong, we could do that, but this situation requires that we keep our heads a little bit colder, that we're able to think a little bit clear, and that maybe we're trying to interpret each other as best we can. I think in this situation, which is so serious, the Greatness and the situation in society would have been earned with it. We made no trouble at the time that it seemed that the Right Party and the Advance Party would not maintain the requirement for identity in Section 94, because we thought it would not be the Right Party and the Advance Party. I think it's time to breathe a little bit with your stomach and think a little bit smarter. I think we will have better debates on how to strengthen integration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e762	In a case on which there is otherwise broad agreement – and it is pleasing – there is a question of whether this is what the Workers’ Party now claims from the pulpit, that there is also a consensus that there should be restrictions on the conditions under which asylum seekers should be able to obtain a temporary work permit. It would have been okay if the Workers' Party recognised that there is something else in this note that the Workers' Party is behind, and the decision to which they referred, as the Stortinget has made. Because it is a different matter that the Stortinget asks the government to consider proposals that make it easier to take temporary work – it may be to change the restrictions and requirements currently in the asylum-seeker’s period – but it is not to say in the note that it is important to ‘open the temporary work permit for asylum-seekers waiting for treatment of the asylum-seeker’, without reservation. If the Labour Party had considered that it was the text of the decision referred to, as was relevant, the comment would probably have been that it was important to consider measures to facilitate the granting of a temporary work permit. However, that is not what you say; it is said that it is important to ‘open up temporary work permits for asylum seekers’ — implicitly: any asylum seeker — ‘waiting for the processing of the asylum application’. That's the text right there. It is reinforced by the fact that after there was still a misunderstanding that the centre party was behind this remark, which they did not, and that there was then a majority for this comment, the representative of one of the parties went behind this remark, André N. Skkelstad from the Left, out in NTB, who writes: ‘The majority of Stortinget makes it clear that asylum seekers’ – even here without reservation – ‘have to be given the opportunity to work while waiting for the application to be processed’. And on the other hand, ‘It is a clear majority who give an instruction to the government.’ This was said by André N. Skkelstad, municipal spokesman for the Left to NTB. It could at least be a good thing if the Workers' Party took an emphatic distance from the fact that this should be an instruction to the government to change its policy, because then we could finally be told once and for all that the Workers' Party stated in the remark that all asylum seekers waiting for the processing of their application would be able to obtain a temporary work permit, but that is not what you think. That is why, in fact, this remark has not meant to introduce a new policy; it is just thought that it would open up something that is already opening up to. Then you open the doors. Then it could have been said that this was an accident at work – one has blinked a little in the final question – and was done with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e779	We are now at a time when we will experience that human traffickers can rub their hands while they deliver interpretations of various messages, as they perceive from our country, to people in a difficult situation. These are willing to borrow what they have on farm and land and spend on a dangerous journey, because they think that if you come to Norway, completely regardless of whether you get to stay or not, there's a pretty good chance that you can start working. There are signals from individual parties in the Stortinget that can be interpreted that way. We have proof of that. We see those coming across the border from Russia. What do they say? They have been exposed to the kind of communication from human traffickers, which in turn looks at the signals given by Norwegian politicians. The Labour Party now refuses to say that it is an accident at work, the Labour Party refuses to say that it is a misunderstanding. They want to make the comment, as it says, and they require that instead of reading that comment, we should deal with another matter and what is in that case – not what is in this remark. Then I take that comment seriously. And so will others. In fact, the consequence is that very many people believe that here we have politicians in the Norwegian metropolitan area – especially in the largest opposition party – who give clear signals that one can come to Norway and relate to the remark that the Workers' Party will not now take away, even if they are repeatedly given the chance that it is important to ‘open up temporary work permits for asylum seekers waiting for the treatment of the asylum application’ without mentioning anything about the restrictions. That's the conclusion of this round. Then the representatives of the Workers' Party would like to come up here and hang on to us in order for us to read the comment. But the thunderous speech given by various representatives, they should hold to each other as they put together a note that they will not really stand for now – they are asking us to read comments from other matters instead. It's very confusing for us in the Storting. I don't think it's going to be any more elucidating for those who are out there believing in the signals of party politicians from the Storting, especially in the largest opposition party, sending out, both in the press and here from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e787	We're in a situation where there could be almost 40,000 to the country during this year. The 2016 residential projections show that it is up to 18 000 to be settled. These figures show that we are facing an extraordinary situation that needs to be addressed. What is important is that those who have been accommodated get Norwegian training and social skills started as soon as possible. That is why we are dealing with the matter today, that the right and obligation to participate in training occurs when the individual receives a residence permit, not only when living or starting up in a municipality. Today’s proposals to strengthen the expectations of early training by transferring responsibility for initiating training from each participant to a municipality are important in this respect. When municipalities are given a greater picture of who has the rights and obligations of training and when they start training, municipalities are better placed to plan such offers. The government has reduced asylum search by allowing everyone in reception today, regardless of their residence status, the right to 250 hours. If you stay, you're right in several hours. But when there are as many people as there are now, there is a lack of Norwegian teachers to give them that offer. That is why we have concentrated on Norwegian training for those who have been given residence. We've reduced the asylum nostrils from 250 hours to 175 hours. It's not at the receptions they're supposed to sit on. There I agree with the representative, Andersen, that it is important to make progress in the procedure. There is money in the next year's budget and in the supplementary budget for the current year to get a faster procedure, but with the large numbers it will take longer because there are restrictions on how much you can get away. The government is doing the best it can in this field. It is important that they are given a quick explanation as to whether they should be sent out or whether they should be allowed to stay. If you stay, you will find the right to training in both Norwegian and social knowledge. This is why the government has also spent extra money next year, both for integration grants and for the Norwegian training grant that the individual should receive. I think it'll be important in the future for the work that happens in the receptions. The government has also announced that we have to look at the entire reception structure. Perhaps the solution is that we need to put in place an integration facility, so that those who have been accommodated and, as we know, are to be integrated into a municipality, can get started faster with both monitoring, Norwegian education and social knowledge. That is what needs to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e802	The country is in a very difficult situation. This is about the situation in Storskog and Svinesund where there is a lack of capacity. There is a very pressing situation in the reception apparatus, and there is a very pressing situation in municipalities that have to deal with both asylum reception and residence. It requires the Storting to be conscious of its responsibility. The working party has addressed all rounds related to these issues with the aim of reaching the broadest possible consensus and taking responsibility. Now we're in settlement negotiations with all the other parties on Stortinget. Yesterday we joined in and gave our consent to the Quick Law that was being treated. In the spring we made a deal of 8 000 quota refugees, and a month ago we unanimously agreed to a Roman number decision on new criteria for obtaining temporary work permits to replace today's asylum interview, for which it now takes a very long time to get through. We didn't shoot anything. We have asked the government to assess new criteria, and then we will decide when the government has done its job, which I assume they do. That's our approach. Then I have to say I'm very surprised at the way the government parties act on these questions. In a situation where the country shouts for answers and solutions, government parties spend time in the main hall to suspect the opposition and make stories for which there is no basis. It's very disappointing. We have not proposed a new policy. We have proposed new criteria to be able to continue what is today's unanimously adopted policy and practice. Then we can say that it was unexplained to say that you are opening up temporary work permits, as there are already established policies and practices today. The Labour Party has never called for asylum seekers to work from day one. Nor have representatives from the right-hand side here been able to document on one point. That the Left believes it is an honest matter, but that discussion gets to the Right with the Left and not with the Workers' Party. I have to say I have greater expectations for the government and government parties than what we have seen in the hall today. Now we have to deal with the acute, and then it requires new answers, also on how to integrate. When the Prime Minister said we should integrate better from day one, what does that mean? The answer given so far is to cut down on language training, so that the starting point for asylum seekers to enter the municipalities is a poorer one. If you mean the line of work, concrete what's meant, because we haven't heard that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e815	I don't need to vote out as much as some have from this pulpit, but I think it's a little special that there's some smoking of the decision that we made barely 14 days ago or something like that. It has then triggered the big discussion, in a recommendation that the committee agrees on, but with slightly different entrances to some comments, and some call it to open doors – well, if it was to open doors, then the government parties, including the Center Party, could have supported the comment. Then, as the representative Eirin Sund, chooses to read this as a collection of documents we should not mention the name of – and in an appropriate way. I think it's special. That's the way this is raised. But what's clear to me in many ways after this debate, which I think is a little paradox, is that where the Left is clear that we want more activity instead of passiveness in the receptions, it becomes black from the government that the passivity is okay. Where in the opposition we try to point to opportunities for activity, which also help to stimulate – more people have been involved in the debate how harmful it is to be passive when you sit in a reception for a long time. I think this is also elucidating. If the government parties think that it's a better way of integrating, a better way of getting people into this – if they're going to be here too – then I have some problems getting it. Because I think this is definitely mixing the cards. Everyone in this room agrees on catch-up measures in Storskog and the like, there is no disagreement about it, so this is to mix the cards completely. And it doesn't help then to use the more out of tune, because the voice sounds good anyway, we hear that if we also use consent in this hall. In fact, this is a broad consensus on the measures at Storskog, but the next is that it is better to have an activity approach than a passive approach at reception. There is no government following the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e828	Stine Renate Håheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e831	Consent is not my strong side, but I will try after the good article from the previous speaker. I'm a little uncertain about whether I'm going to allow it, but I'm going to try to give some good advice on strategy to the Right. For if the Right is very concerned about the sending of signals, you should not suspect what is in a note, and shout out all over the world what the majority of the Stortinge means. It is okay that the government is sometimes confused about what they themselves think, but I think the matter is well served that you do not send false signals about what the opposition means either. And if you're worried about signals, you have to go by yourself, because it's a unanimous increase that has decided that we will have increased use of temporary work permits and asked the government to come back with new criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e838	Thank you for a good debate. Most of the debate has gone to the comment on the temporary work permit, and I then hoped that the debate would clarify what the minority really means by the comment on the temporary work permit. Fortunately, the Labour Party has made it clear that they are still with us in the demand for identity clearance. The others haven't. I am still as wise as to whether they think it should be an automatic work permit as soon as an asylum application has been submitted, whether or not we should go beyond the requirement for identity clearance, and what other requirements we have to impose in order to obtain a temporary work permit. I also wonder how much faith many people have in the effect of this. In my view, the biggest challenge we have, and we should discuss, is how to get them to work with permission into the workplace. It is not that there are 100,000 job vacancies that they can jump into once they have received a temporary or permanent work permit. Unfortunately, it is a major challenge to provide work, including with a permanent work permit. If it is believed that everyone will receive an automatic work permit as soon as you report as an asylum seeker, I still insist that it will be sending a completely wrong signal in today's situation. It's just to look at the debate we had here in the hall yesterday. I am also amazed at the Progress Party, which stresses the importance of early language teaching while they are now cutting the number of hours to be taught in Norwegian at the asylum recipients. I think the language teaching that comes even while they are in the search process is incredibly important for integration into society. What is the solution is the faster the procedure, and, as the Council of State pointed out, the faster the settlement, and then it is amazing that the government will not fully finance the municipalities and that they will not provide larger grants for housing. What we get feedback from all the municipalities is that there's one thing that prevents them from going for more housing, and that's that it's only 90 pst. the cost of housing financed. There is, of course, agreement on this through calculations from the Technical Calculation Committee. The solution is to fully finance the municipalities, so that we can settle much faster. That's the big challenge in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e853	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e867	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e881	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e895	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e909	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e915	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e935	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e1009	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e1019	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e1036	Case No. 4–7 is the second reading of legislative acts 1–4. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-17.ana.ud1762e1087	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
