ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e98	From 17 June to 19 June in order to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Yerevan, Armenia, the Workers' Party’s Group is asked for the leave of the representative Sverre Myrli. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Are Health, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e113	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox That's for sure. We have a very long day in front of us, and I encourage everyone to think through how great it is when you concentrate on key issues, put their noses in a good way and are short and effective. The representatives were very nice last time and have an opportunity to do this shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e127	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated as follows to the groups: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to four lines of reply are given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after submission by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e136	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the Committee Secretary, who for a hectic time has helped us both late and early to sew notes together and to deliver an attitude to Stortinget. Municipalities are important. The municipal sector managed on behalf of taxpayers’ annual income of 435.2 billion. kr in 2015. Measured in gross domestic product, the municipal sector generated some 17,5 pst. in both 2013 and 2014. The Committee feels that the municipal sector has an important role to play as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare society, and we would stress the importance of the municipalities' position as the arena for strong local democracy. Local authorities represent both proximity, belongings, and the ability to influence the inhabitants. The community proposition we are dealing with today has a number of themes. Of course, local reform is one of the most important issues this year, and it is now one year since the municipal reform was dealt with in the Stortinget. A large number of them concluded that we should ask the municipalities to sit down and look at their own situation. It is important to note that the municipal reform has not been found in this room or in government offices. It is an initiative that local politicians from the Right, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have taken part in their national meetings, where they all have the formulations of the Storing Programme that there is a need to look at the municipal division. That's what makes big business and government discuss a community reform – because local politicians have asked us to do it. I think a lot has happened since last year. It is less than a year since the letter from the council went to the municipalities, but we have already registered that this is on the agenda in almost all municipalities. It is debated in society, and in fact there are also three municipalities that have been with the king of state council – Sandefjord, Stokke and Andebu – and have been approved by a merger. I would like to praise both the KS and the statesmen for having seized this reform and for having positively and constructively joined the municipalities, taking responsibility for the leadership and showing local leadership. In this setting, we propose to clarify the mandate of the county councillors, namely that the county councillors should make a recommendation following the decision of the municipalities on 1 July next year. This is important to stress that the county has an important role to play, and that they are to come to the government with advice before the government makes its announcement in spring 2017. In addition, we note that the government listens when it comes to the municipal reform. The government has shared innumerable meetings with individual municipalities and with groups of municipalities, and this proposition addresses some of the issues that the council has encountered in the dialogue with the municipalities. It applies to both agriculture, powerhouses, etc. We are pleased that the Council of State listens, and we are pleased that the Council of State in the Proposition proposes good solutions to the problems we have encountered. It shows that this reform is not a static reform, but a dynamic reform, which also has a lead in the department that listens and adjusts the course gradually to get things moving in an elegant way. The Storting is dealing with the police reform for a while. There is a problem raised by this committee, namely that new municipalities can be heard in more police districts. I am very pleased that it has been clearly stated that no new municipalities should listen to more police districts. They're gonna listen to one of the police districts. In my home area, Sunnhordland, we know that the municipalities of Stord, Fitjar and Bømlo are proposed to be located in the south-west until Hordfast is extended, but at the same time they now have conversations with Tysnes in connection with the municipal reform. I am very pleased that there is a broad majority who say that if these conversations occur, the new municipality will immediately be added to the western police district. Of course, another important theme in the community proposition is the framework for the next year. For 2016, the government announces that there will be an increase of between 6 and 7 billion in the framework. kr in total income and SEK 4,5-5 billion. kr in so-called free income. This is a growth of 1.4 to 1.5 pst. measured from the revised national budget. So today we will experience some kind of overkill, where SV also won that fight this year. They want to propose 12–13.5 billion. kr in total income growth. The working party and the centre are between 9 and 10 billion. kr in proposals for growth on the aggregate income of the municipal sector. The question that at least I, and certainly also Kommune-Noreg, now asks, is: why did we never see such numbers in the eight years these three parties had the possibility to deliver such numbers? We never saw two billion in growth for the municipal sector. But what's important to discuss is not necessarily just the percentage and the number of billions, but what space of action is left when all bonds are out. We know that there are commitments when it comes to demography, pension expenditure and what tasks the government assumes that municipalities have to solve. The interesting number of municipal politicians is not what is in growth and percentage, but what remains to be driven by local policies when the bonds are taken out. Our bonds on this bet are $1.7 billion. kr for demography, SEK 0.9 billion. NOK to pension, SEK 0.4 billion. kr for a more flexible babysitting, 0.4 billion. kr to rust, SEK 0.2 billion. kr for the scholastic services and SEK 0,2 billion. kr to further bet on county roads. That means there's bonds of 3.8 billion. kr, which means that there is an action room of between 0.7 and 1.2 billion. kr when the bindings have been removed. We recorded that on the hearings held by the municipal committee, KS said that the frameworks for 2016 are well compared with previous years. We have also noticed that the KS on the same earring said that in the last three years there has been a greater growth in free income than in the previous three years. It is also important to note that a Joint Committee says that it is important to disseminate the framework closely. And it is interesting to note that a joint committee says that the municipal sector will always face the need for priority and focus on efficient operation. Therefore, we will not stand on this pulpit and strain the expectation book of our local politicians unnecessarily high by saying that this is a historic uprising, or use another rhetoric that one has used about arrangements that have been less offensive than we use. We convey this and stress that municipalities need to think smartly and effectively with these frameworks. 2015 is also mentioned in the proposition. We now know that the government and the cooperation party are adding 1.2 billion. kr extra on the table for the municipal sector. This is a good contribution, among other things. to mitigate the impact of tax failure on municipalities. It's important for us to stress that we don't introduce a new principle of compensating for the crown, simply because we don't want the local government sector to be 100 pst. Framework financed. Nor do we want the municipal sector to be withdrawn when tax revenue is good. So, the municipal bill mentions a new income system for 2017, with which the government is now going to work, where they are going to propose how the municipalities' income system is going to be. My goal is to create an income system that allows municipalities to live as much as possible on their own income and to a lesser extent on transfers from the country. It's about showing spokespersons and advisers what's most important, simply to facilitate new jobs rather than asking for more money from the state. It's also natural that we look at the health of the system when we have such a review. What I have registered is that almost all the municipalities in Norway are special in some way and have an extra bonus. Maybe we can look at all of them and see if it's possible to simplify this and to strengthen the community's tax component. But that's until the next year that discussion will take place. Today, Stortinget is invited to decide on the corporate tax. It's an important discussion and an important principle to discuss. Norway is in the forefront of major change, and new jobs need to be created. We know that municipalities have a key role to play. It is those who administer planning and building laws, and it is the municipalities that are important to create new jobs. That's why I think it's quite right to reintroduce some of the corporate taxes to the municipalities, so that they become very aware of their role as positive yes-communists to facilitate new jobs. I am also quite sure that the tax morals of businesses will be strengthened by a link between where values are created and where values are left. It is unlikely that the Storting signal that from 2017 it will pay off to be a yes municipality. We assume that the model with which the government will continue to work is based on the fact that there is growth that is the key – the creation of new jobs. We also ask the government to see whether or not the dithering should be part of the corporate tax. The municipal bill today also mentions the boat/ferry criterion of the county income system. It has been a repetition and a very difficult criterion to create a good model on. The government is forced to continue working on it the following year, and we register a strong interest from the ferries in exactly the way to finance the boat/ferry criterion. We do not care at least when the committee was on a committee mission in Hordaland. One of the most important bids we met from both the business community and the county community was a desire to invest more in safe and environmentally friendly ferries. For this reason, the Committee has made good sense that we want the county councils to be offensive when it comes to setting environmental requirements, and we ask the government to assess the economic impact this has on the county councils and how increased environmental requirements are to be financed. This must be understood as being offensive and giving a signal to the county councils to put proper demands into new supply. And after several years of building time of new ferries, it's going to increase the cost of operating it's going to take the height of. There is also a comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Labour Party that addresses the challenge that there are 18 purchasers of ferries today and only a few sellers. The Committee points out that the State must contribute to the development of the purchasing environment. Finally, the largest single case delivered in this proposition is the means of suspension. I think one year ago, the holiday settlement was not mentioned in the municipal bill. This committee addressed the fact that the government had to do a job to set up a holiday solution model for the county roads as well. Of course, it's very nice as both committee leaders and case leaders for this case to see that one year after we ordered it, the government is delivering a deal, and today we can lift the flag along the coast to put in place a holiday solution model. I've had the pleasure of meeting a lot of enthusiastic people on islands and in fjord arms who want to connect to the mainland. I can mention that our county chairman in West Agder, Gisle Meininger Saudland, and Christian Eikeland have been very busy with Hidra in West Agder. They tried a few years ago and went to the Storting with a wish to make Hidra land-fixed. They got a proposition, but then it was too bad for a holiday solution, so the county said no. Today, the growing majority will double the holiday settlement in relation to that one added to it at that time, and I expect it to be optimism in West Agder based on the decision today. We note that at Atløy they are optimistic and want to cooperate with Outer Steinsund to create the possibility of linking the Atløy and the outer part of Sula to the rest of the municipalities they belong to, and that they want to challenge the county already in October to get it to. On Saturday I was in Masfjorden, where they wanted to put down the cable ferry for the benefit of a new bridge. I've been to Hugho, who wants to establish a bridge. And not least my own home municipality, Austevoll, which is the largest non-resident municipality in Norway, will benefit from this holiday redemption scheme. It's also very funny that the Storting is now adding 40 years to it, because then we're really creating a good system that makes it realistic to create many continental connections in Norway. This is district policy at its best. It is also very pleasant, as a party representative of progress, to see a matter we have fought for too long – but where we have never in any way received a proper hearing for a good order – is now being agreed upon. Our country meeting said 40 years in May. Now write me in June, and the Stortinget agreed to co-consult our model with 40 years. It shows that it is useful to engage, and that it is useful to propose things for the national meeting. It's going to give you the final result. It's a big day for the coast that the municipal bill addresses holiday settlement for 40 years. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e195	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e200	I thought it was interesting to note that the committee leader is not using the term «historical promise» about the municipal economy all the time the municipal minister has used that very wording about the government's municipal structure this year. I noticed otherwise that the committee leader spent a lot of time talking about structure and systems, but very little on the welfare services for which the municipalities are responsible. I think that is striking all the time the Progress Party in the opposition and election campaign has been very concerned with the care of the elderly. It did not actually mention the representative Njåstad in one word. Party leader Siv Jensen was clear and clear before the 2013 elections that it was the needs and not the budgets that were to manage the care of the elderly, it was not to be on the money. Now Siv Jensen is Minister of Finance, and, like the representative of Njåstad, she is no longer talking about caring for the elderly. That is why I wonder whether the Progress Party still believes that it is the needs and not the budgets to manage the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e209	It is possible that the Minister of Local Affairs has mentioned the topic of ‘historical raising’ on some occasions, because it is correct, but we do not overdramatise the use of that kind of characteristics, just not to create too much expectations. But if you go into reality, the municipalities never get more money than they get to next year. I thank you for the question about the care of the elderly. Both our party leader and I are very concerned that the need is most important. That's exactly why the Progress Party got a big say with the trial scheme – that there should be an estimate. The representative Pedersen knows what it means, then it's the need that determines. We are glad that Norwegian municipalities are invited to search, and that some municipalities are selected to participate in testing our model when it comes to care for the elderly. It is an estimate of the amount of money to follow, which is precisely the need for the elderly. We have certainly not forgotten the care of the elderly, but we have so much more, and we believe that it was well known to Stortinget what the Progress Party thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e216	The fact that some experimental municipalities receive an estimate does not mean that there are the needs to manage over the budgets of all the other municipalities. We record that it is cut in areas where the municipalities want to bet, also in the care of the elderly. The government of which the Progress Party is part has refused to compensate for the tax failure of the municipalities. So far it has amounted to over 2 billion. kr. The government has announced a real increase in the free revenues of less than 1 billion. kr for next year. By comparison, the government's Advance Party has taken the money for 12 billion. In tax cuts, where most go to those who already have the most. Does this mean that the Progress Party is satisfied with today's care for the elderly, or is it estimated that municipalities will settle for this themselves by further increasing the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e223	The progress party will not be satisfied with the care of the elderly until it is at a level that will enable all older people to get what they are entitled to. We think that municipalities are doing a lot of good, but we see that there are some challenges in how you finance the care of the elderly. We are therefore pleased that there will be a test arrangement with our model. It is clear that if this is a success, which we believe in the Progress Party, we expect it to be a model for everyone. The advantage of conducting an experiment is that we can test our model against the ordinary model. When it comes to the numbers that Pedersen's representative mentions with regard to the tax deficit, they're not at such a high level that we round 2 billion. kr. In addition, this government has added 1.1 billion. kr extra on the table in the revised version, and the cooperation parties have strengthened this by 0.1 billion. kr more. There's money for municipalities to deliver good services both this year and next year. There will be no need to increase or introduce taxes on property in municipalities. Rather, we need to drive more efficiently to improve the services provided to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e230	The government is still trying to create the impression that the municipal reform is based on volunteering, despite the fact that it is announced that there will be a proposition for Stortinget in spring 2017 where Stortinget will draw the municipal map. The representative Njåstad highlighted the comment in the setting where it states that: ‘The government asks the syta to advise the county councillors on the municipal structure of the county after the municipalities have taken their decisions by 1 July 2016.’ Why this remark if you intend to respect local democracy? At the same time, the government is starting the hunt for time thieves in the municipal sector. The feedback from rapporteurs and advisers is that the second largest time thief in the municipal sector is now the municipal reform. Why should municipalities use time and resources to investigate and take decisions if the County and the Grand Duchy are in any case to review these decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e240	We have never said that the Storting and the statesmen should in any case review local decisions. What we have said is that before 1 July, the municipalities will make an important decision as to what they think is right. The people of the country shall make a recommendation, and the government shall bring a matter. The government's claim for Stortinget is not just about municipal classification. This is about new tasks, it's about the fact that some municipalities might change the county. There may be many items in the proposition coming in the spring of 2017. When it comes to the question of time thief, I didn't think there was a time thief for the municipalities to sit down, evaluate their own situation, and look into the glass sphere for what it takes to deliver good services to the inhabitants in the future. With all the facts in the expert selections and in the tools they have been consulted, this is not a time thief; it is an important work for municipalities to equip themselves for the future. I don't think any local authorities are looking at appraising their own situation as a time thief. In fact, this is very important in order to ensure the services provided to citizens today and not least in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e247	I think it is the older people who must be most disappointed with this government in terms of both pensions, local economy and care for the elderly. There is no doubt that if the old people are to receive either a sick home or enough help at home when they need it, the local economy needs to be strongly strengthened. It's about being able to hire enough people so that old people don't have to be alone, afraid, lonely and insecure. That is why more money is needed into the local economy, and we need to spend the money we give to care for the elderly, to hire people – not for privatisation. The progress party is even opposed to SV's proposal for transparency in private companies that may be required to provide care for the elderly. If you are going to make money on private operations, it's about pension and pay for the employees. I would then like to hear the opinion of the chairman of the committee: does he think that help nurses and caregivers in Norwegian nursing homes have too much pay and too high a pension, and that it is therefore okay that the services are put off by competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e253	This is a major issue of wage and pension conditions in the private sector compared to the municipal sector. I know a part of it from having been through such a process, and it's too hard to answer it in a minute. The main difference is that the private sector has an introductory pension, while the public sector has a benefit pension. I agree that there is a problem that it cannot be compared. In some areas, private schemes are the best; in some areas, they are the best for the public. In any case, I have confidence that the private companies, which operate as many other companies in Norway, offer competitive wage and pension conditions and that they comply with Norwegian law. I have no reason to believe anything else. It would have been a great advantage to compare private actors with public actors – that one had the same pension scheme. One would have been better able to compare the costs in the two levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e260	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e263	While other European countries are still struggling with the aftermath of the financial crisis, we have a good starting point in Norway for solving new tasks. We don't have to cut the state budget. We can choose where we're going to spend the new money we still have at our disposal every year. Priorities will not be less important for this reason. The choices we make now will have meaning for people, and for how our society will be many years ahead. And our time has many unsolved tasks. Many of these tasks are the municipalities that have to do. Population growth, the ageing population, cities that grow, communities that need growth, settlement of refugees and climate change are well-known keywords for what municipalities are expected to handle. Now the time off is over 4 pst. For the first time in 10 years. It also affects the municipalities and imposes new requirements on the municipalities and the county municipalities. The Labour Party therefore prioritises school, health and elderly care for all rather than tax cuts to a few. We went to the elections in 2013. We're proposing 3 billion. kr more to the municipalities for next year in addition to the government's arrangement: 2 billion. kr to strengthen the free income of municipalities and counties and 1 billion. For concrete initiatives in kindergarten, school, prevention and care for the elderly. Since we are now approaching a new election campaign, there is reason to recall what was said before the previous elections. Before the 2013 election, all Norwegian parties voted to bet on the school. The right was no exception. But the right thing that forgot to mention was what stood out in small writing, that tax cuts were the most important thing for them. The tax haven now stands at 12 billion. That's $12. as an alternative could have been used in municipalities and to invest in knowledge for the future. The Norwegian school is good and progressing, but there are still too many differences in what students learn, and too many are excluded from secondary education. In order to invest in the school, we need to ensure that each municipality has the capacity to prioritise, strengthen and develop its schools. We're not there today. On the same day as the municipal bill was presented, the Education Association presented a survey among its members where the majority say they have experienced a negative development in the school economy. The Education Association has pointed out quite strikingly that national policy and the reality of school are not interrelated, calling it a frontal collision between national ambitions and municipal reality. The Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen the free income of municipalities would give municipalities greater room for action in order to invest in the school. We also propose to set aside money to ensure that the students get the follow-up they need to be able to read, write and calculate when they leave the second class, and we propose a separate professional equipment package. Parental care was also a central theme before the 2013 elections. For the Advance Party, it was produced as a main part. At that time party leader Siv Jensen said to the VG: ‘Today, we have a situation where it is up to each municipal politician to decide whether Mrs. Hansen is going to have a sick home place. In many municipalities, they may have to cut elsewhere in order to afford Mrs. Hansen's place of nursing home." Siv Jensen made it very clear that it should not be on the money. It was the needs that were to govern, not the budgets, and it was going to end that the municipality's economy decided what kind of care was given. Now the party leader of the Progress Party has become Minister of Finance, and we can establish that the finances of the municipalities are crucial for the kind of care services you receive. We can also state that with the Progress Party in government, the financial opportunities of the municipalities are weakened to improve care. Next year, the government has announced between 4 and 4.5 billion. kr in increased free income of primary municipalities. Subtracting the bills related to demographics, pensions and the different leads that have been put on the money is actually a place between 400 and 900 million. kr in free income. It is not going to give any boost to the care of the elderly, especially when we know at the same time that small municipal schemes from the Right-Fremskritsparte-government coincide with a significant failure in the municipalities' tax revenues. When the Progress Party was in opposition, they felt that tax failure in the municipalities should be compensated as a principle. The government now believes that tax failure should not be compensated as a principle, even though the Stortinge inter-politically agreed to compensate for the tax failure both in 2004 and during the financial crisis. For the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities, the government's new principle means that more than 2 billion have been lost. kr that could have been used in the care of the elderly. Instead of expanding welfare services, many municipalities now have to cut off services, or they do as the party traps of the government parties in Bergen and Stavanger do, they introduce or increase the property tax. There is nothing in the reports from the municipalities or in everyday life in the care of the elderly that suggests that the 2 billion lost last year would not have come well, on the contrary. Yesterday, the Medical Council in our country warned against the use of so-called coercive pyche. The Ethics Council is concerned that the suit is used to save time, and that it is not the patient's best that is the reason. Changing beds is time- and resource-consuming if there are few night shifts at work. It is very good to say about Norwegian care for the elderly. And I don't think we should have a debate where we black paint it. At the same time, the coercive practice is a symptom that the everyday life of elderly care is under pressure in many places because the patients are many, and the employees are too few, with too little time. This, too, has to do with the local economy, because the local economy is what determines whether municipalities can hire more people, who decide whether employees are given the necessary training and professional fill, and who decide whether there is sufficient room for guidance and ethical reflection in a hectic everyday life. The road to good municipal services goes through a good community economy and enough staff with the right skills. This is why the Workers' Party proposes to strengthen the local economy, but also to implement a skills reform to bet on employees. Today Statoil confirmed that the company should cut close to 2000 jobs. Also in other industries and businesses, mothers and fathers, with mortgages and holiday dreams, are cancelled or let off. The biggest job is to do what we can to give people a new chance and a new job as soon as possible. Here, too, municipalities and county councils can make a difference, as the municipality of Hasvik did on the Finnish coast ten years ago, after all three corner stone companies had gone bankrupt. The municipality made a successful transition, the companies are on the move again, and the population is on the increase. A small but important instrument that the municipality had is the municipal nutrition fund, and therefore the municipality of Hasvik is naturally not happy enough that the government has cut off regional development funds, which have once again led to cuts in their municipal nutrition fund. Because despite vigorous efforts, start-ups and growth in the population, Hasvik belongs to the municipality group of 386 municipalities that lose out on the government's redistribution as a result of reintroducing municipal corporation tax when the last available figures are taken into account. It is important to support the work of the municipality to create new jobs, but the government's way of doing so is both unfair and unfocused. I have met very few rapporteurs who are not concerned with creating new jobs, but the municipalities provide very different starting points. It is not by chance that Meløy municipality loses on the government's plans after the REC corner stone company in Glomfjord went bankrupt, nor is it by chance that the Stavanger area will be the area that comes out best after good years for the petroleum industry. The question is what will this look like for Stavanger when the system is to be introduced in 2017, with more uncertain times for the oil and gas industry. What Stavanger needs is not co-economic policy; it is countercyclical policy. Stavanger is one of the municipalities in the country which have been most affected by the tax failure of the municipalities, and for Stavanger, it would significantly increase the overall strengthening of the municipal economy and compensation for the tax failure. In Stavanger and other municipalities in the country, local politicians have ambitions for school, health and care. The working party is on with them. I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e308	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e313	I can say that I agree with the representative Pedersen that one of the most important things the Storting does is to facilitate more jobs in times of uncertainty. Then it is alarming that today, the main figure of the Workers' Party is starting to make tax increases for business and tax increases for Norwegian companies a battle cause. That's the last thing you need in these times. However, my question concerns something else. The Labour Party has talked about the need to compensate for each and every krone of tax losses, and then – it is said in its comments – the whole issue at the end of the year, when it is too late to give the municipalities the money you may lose in the course of the year. In the context of the revision, which will be considered later in the week, an increase of 1.2 billion is introduced. kr in the municipal economy. However, the working party cuts in this. It takes money from schemes to go to poor families with children to manage that scheme. How does it relate to the fact that the Labour Party actually cuts, so that when we grant the money this year, you get a lower amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e320	First, to the discussion of tax cuts. I believe that the Norwegian society lives very well with the level of taxation we had in 2013, and I would like to remind you that this was the level of taxation we had during the financial crisis, when Norway came out of it with Europe's lowest unemployment. I am not going to accuse the government of being responsible for the fall in the oil price, but it is quite obvious that tax cuts have not worked to give new growth and jobs, as unemployment is now over 4pst. for the first time in ten years. The Workers' Party strongly supports the proposal to increase the appropriations for municipalities by 1.2 billion. We also believe that the Stortinget should, at the same time, ensure that the budgets for which they have adopted this year are actually implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e327	I note that the Workers' Party does not deny that they are cutting in the administration of a scheme for poor children's families this year to get other items on the budget. I also record that it is believed that Norwegian businesses and businesses now need increased taxes. That's right-wing disagreement. Another theme: The Labour Party has a national meeting decision that Norwegian municipalities will purchase 10 pst. of all new dwellings. We hope that we also succeed in the strategy to build more dwellings in this country, but if Norwegian municipalities, according to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, are to buy 10 pst. Of all newly built dwellings, it must cost billions of dollars. The Labour Party has calculated how much of the growth in the income of municipalities that will then agree to buy new dwellings, and how much will the offer for school, care for the elderly and kindergartens in the municipalities be affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e334	Now I just don't fully understand what the representative Jensen is aiming for. What he refers to now is simply not the Labour Party's policy. Let's go back to tax cuts, which the representative Jensen obviously likes to talk about. It is a fact that cutting the overall level of taxation has not contributed and will not contribute to creating new jobs. But what's a reality is that when you give priority to spending money on tax cuts, there's less money to put into municipalities, and then it turns out that not only do people get cut off from welfare services, but they also get an increase in property taxes. Today, in the evening post, we read that 48 new municipalities – several of them Right and Advance Party – introduce property taxes, and the municipal bill states that last year the municipalities increased property tax by 700 million. kr more than budgeted and increased fees of 1.5 billion. kr, so the government's tax cuts are not free for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e341	It was interesting to listen to Pedersen's posts, where she correctly described that when all the costs of our arrangement are deducted, there is still a room for action to strengthen the services. What I don't get to vote is the logic that it means that there is no better care for the elderly because the municipalities have free incomes, as the representative said. I should also like to ask the representative about the care of the elderly. We all think in 2009, when the deaf leader of the Workers' Party said that full medical coverage would be one of the most important election issues for the Workers' Party. This was followed up by the representative Pedersen in 2011, when she said that they would work day and night to get full medical coverage. The fasite we all know was 567 new places in eight years. My question to the Labour Party is: Are they satisfied with the state of Norwegian care for the elderly at the government change in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e348	The answer to that is no. We were not satisfied with the state of Norwegian care for the elderly, and that is also why we chose to spend the large amount of money on improving the situation in the care of the elderly. This was also done by the Progress Party, but unlike the Advance Party, the Workers' Party stands by its promises. That's why we're proposing 3 billion. kr more than the government of the municipalities next year. I record that where the Progress Party earlier said that care for the elderly was the most important, tax cuts are now the most important. I think it's a pity that we don't get the support of the Progress Party to start the escalating of the law on day-to-day activities for demente. It would be an incredibly important measure for the demented and not least for the relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e353	I noticed in the reply with the representative Jensen that the poor children's families are not something that is important for the Workers' Party, as a person chooses to give it priority away. But my question to the representative Pedersen is different. There was not much mention of secondary schools nor of the municipalities in the posts of the representative. I wonder a little bit, when the Workers' Party, which was in government for eight years, did nothing about the cost keys, which were potty, what this actually consisted of lost opportunities for high school and public transport, not least for Oslo, Rogaland, West Agder, South Trondelag etc. We have now compensated in many ways also those who have lost the most, but I think it is amazing that the representative does not mention it, because there are great challenges in these states in providing a good high-level offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e361	What the representative of Skelstad says is wrong. I mentioned secondary education in my post and said quite explicitly the effort we have on the professional profession. It is also the case that the quality of secondary education is a main reason why we are proposing to strengthen the county economy by 600 million. kr to next year, and I think it's a great pity that we don't get Left's support for that proposal. The Labour Party does not disagree with the fact that it was time to revise the County Cost Keys, but we disagree very much about the way it has happened, because it is unclear how to get the answer. We have also mildly said that the bulk of the population – including the left – has not been willing to compensate properly for the poorer countries. It just means that it is cut in high school and in the communication offer in counties such as Nordland and Sogn and Fjordane, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e368	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e371	Today, the Stortinget is taking a new step towards a more vibrant local democracy and a more populous and community-friendly municipal sector. The majority of the population still report growth in the financial capacity of municipalities to develop and provide good services. And we continue to work on renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. The government’s 2016 proposals for the local economy generate a growth in the free revenues that are on average at the level of the last few years. The real space for action for municipalities is larger in 2015 than it was in 2014 and the years before, and it gets bigger in 2016 than it is in 2015. There is a government in the municipal proposition about the level of ambition it has for growth in municipal income. Of this growth, it is most relevant to say something about the space of action, how much is left as free money after deducting the money that has labels on it, such as drugs, psychiatry or healthcare. At the hearing in the Committee, the KS showed that under the Right-Fremskritspart-government, the announced growth of free revenues available to municipalities is increasing more than under the red-green. So the difference is not primarily in the amount of growth, but in how much of the money local authorities can actually determine the use of themselves. The Right-Fremskritsparte government provides greater space for action to the municipalities when we increase the growth of the free revenues. In the right we believe that the best solutions are found locally. Therefore, we allow the municipalities to determine more and more revenues without labels or designation with kind regards from us on the Lion Hill. The opposition will probably protest – for the opposition parties, the vastly more billions are proposing than the government. When we compare ambitions for municipal income, it is nevertheless most relevant to compare with the level that the red-greens themselves had when they actually had government power and majority in this room. Interestingly, the level of ambition has changed in the billions after they left the government offices, but it is hardly impressive. The total income growth for the local government sector in 2016 will be between 6 and 7 billion. kr, of which free revenues are 4,5 to 5 billion. kr. It involves growth in line with the average in recent years. Growth ensures that municipalities can continue to provide good services to their citizens and develop better services. This means safe jobs, school knowledge, good health and care services and better help for drug users and people with mental health problems. Although the financial framework for 2016 is good and the free revenues are increasing, it will continue to be necessary to prioritise between good objectives and to streamline municipal services. This is nothing new that has come with this government. The new thing is rather that we say it out loud, while one used to be concerned with painting the situation. The economic situation of municipalities in 2015 has received a lot of attention. Based on an overall assessment of the situation, the government proposed to increase the appropriations for the local government sector by a total of 1.1 billion. kr for the current year. As you know, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on the revised national budget, and the amount is now being increased to 1.2 billion. kr. I record that the Labour Party in the revised national budget is actually at a lower level than the majority in additions to the municipalities in 2015. Given the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and the claims that the government is supposed to be in principle opposed to compensating for tax failure, it is important to note that the Workers' Party actually makes less money to strengthen the municipal economy in 2015 than the government parties and the cooperation parties do. In the right, we believe it is important that municipalities have their own tax revenues – they can, as we know, fluctuate from one year to another. The alternative is a hundred percent grant-funded local government sector, which I don't think any of us want. However, we are not in principle opposed to making a continuous assessment of the financial situation of the municipalities and adding additional appropriations when needed. Well, we're going to show you that right now. As of 2015, we strengthened the growth grant for the municipality, so that municipalities can better manage the ‘growth pain’ resulting from the rapidly increasing need to expand, among others. school and kindergarten. And precisely stimulating growth – and recognising that we want municipalities that can and will affect their own growth – is important. Therefore, it is important to organise and make growth possible for more. Norway needs a more entrepreneurial policy at local and national level, not tax increases and additional burdens. That's why we're warning that a share of the corporate tax from 2017 is going back to municipalities that have grown in business – whether you had a lot or little business from before. Today, the municipality receives zero dollars of corporate tax. In the Right, we think it's right that a share of the tax is left in municipalities that generate growth. It is very strange to hear red-green politicians argue against the tax because the municipalities obviously cannot influence themselves whether there is private business or not in the municipalities. Yes, they can. It is a gross underestimation of the Municipality of Norway to claim that Norwegian municipalities that have a wide and varied business life have not contributed to this themselves – as if it were just coincidences, happiness and piety that determine whether a municipality is considered to be business-friendly or not. We need business-friendly municipalities, but yes, we need a lot more municipalities that have muscles and skills to do a real job in this area. It is also to strengthen the growth power of the country as a whole that we have a record of traffic and roads, including county roads. Including 2016, we're up in an increase of 1.2 billion. kr to the county roads since the government change. And it's for the same reason – growth power across the country – that we are now introducing a ferry relief system, so that it can become more county road, more county tunnel or more county bridge where today you depend on a county ferry. From before we know that it was this government that provided for the continuation of the interest compensation scheme for transport measures in the counties, a scheme that the red-greens tried to scrape. This also gives more and better way. Earlier this week, there was a unanimous Liaison Committee to decide that municipalities providing sea area should receive a significant part of the remuneration paid and that municipalities should receive funds from a Maritime Fund. This is a joyful follow-up to what most parties have also been concerned about in the Municipal Committee. I mention growth subsidies, business-friendly policies, aquaculture communities, corporate taxes and the strengthening of transport measures because, in sum, it shows that we are making it easier and more profitable for municipalities to contribute to something both they themselves and the whole of Norway need more of now: high-growth local communities with a varied and profitable business life, across the country. A business-friendly policy is and will be the most important district policy we can pursue. We still have separate schemes with North Norway grants, district policy instruments and differentiated employer fees. However, Norway as a nation must always have more profits than grants, and then we must have more policies that make it more attractive to organise business and make it easier for business to run economically. Such a policy leads the government. Nearly every five workers in Norway work in the municipal sector. Teachers, nurses, nurses, engineers and fire engineers are examples of occupations that show the enormous breadth of the community with and are responsible for. However, being a good municipality requires more than money. It also requires the municipality to attract, retain and develop skilled employees. At that time, you must be an attractive employer and be able to offer professional environments and career and development opportunities to those who want to do so. In addition, competent managers who cooperate with employees and who make the complex municipal organisation work well together are required to make good offers to the inhabitants and at the same time make best use of the resources available to them. I say this with all possible respect, because driving a municipality is probably one of the most complex things you can be responsible for in the Kingdom. Not everyone is looking at the municipality from the outside who knows the diversity of services, employee groups, citizens, legislation and the environment. The work of the government on a national competence strategy, which is well described in the proposition, is important in view of this. However, it is also the case that the challenges facing many municipalities – whether for services to vulnerable groups, offensive industrial policy or the ability to be an attractive job – underline the need to maintain full pressure on local government reform. The cooperation parties today also make clear the expectation that all municipalities will take an active part in the reform process. We do not oblige anyone to draw a certain conclusion, but we expect – in fact – that you do not volunteer and stand out from the debate. We are also clear that we expect the county officials to sum up and give their recommendations to the government after the municipalities have made their decisions. The municipalities are well running and have good processes and conversations locally, and then it is still a little year until we see most of the answers, probably before the summer of 2016. We have a government that simplifies, renews and improves Norway, which strengthens local democracy and ensures that the state interferes less, that pursues time thieves and pursues a business-friendly policy, which is important at a time when Norway has to move from specialty to conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e424	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e427	In my opinion, today we are discussing one of the most important school policy documents, because today we form the basis for how both municipalities and county municipalities can shape tomorrow's education. In May, the Education Association presented a study of 60 pst. school leaders say they've had a worse economy in recent years, there's become less room for action, and we're constantly reading news from the country's community about school year cuts. My question is really simple: does the representative Jensen think we would get a bigger investment in education, knowledge and school if Kommune-Norge had more money next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e434	I think Norwegian municipalities manage the money they get, well, and I think Norwegian municipal politicians are busy getting the most – both teacher resources, health and kindergarten – back for the money you get. I also believe the representative of Håheim knows that when you put together an overall budget and an economy, it is actually that while we are strengthening the growth of the local economy into important welfare services – and this government does: the growth is in line with what the red-greens had in recent years, and it does not impress anyone that the Labour Party in opposition suddenly finds other numbers – we also provide a business-friendly policy that allows us to get more jobs, which can tax more and ensure that we actually get the income of Norwegian municipalities in the future to pay for school as well. Then tax increases to business are the last thing we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e441	I'm a little uncertain about what the answer to my question is, so it would be nice if I could get it in the next line. But it is also the case that when the Education Association presented its study, it said among other things. Steffen Handal, Vice-Chairman of the Federation of Education, said that ‘there is almost a frontal collision between national ambitions and municipal reality’. So then my question really is: how much credibility does Right have when they talk about that knowledge is their most important thing, when the biggest money, the biggest single bet, goes on tax cuts for those who have the most from before, while now we see cuts in teacher's year and cuts in primary school in very many of the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e450	What we know is that the most important thing to get a high-quality school, where students both learn and thrive, is that we have skilled teachers. This government has invested in the most important school needs, namely competent teachers. We have a significant increase in the number of teachers who are now offered and able to take the continuing training they want. It is not without reason that there is a review of continuing education, even though we have increased significantly by means that enable more municipalities to now offer skills development to their teachers. That's the most important thing we can do to get to a better school. If the representative of Håheim knows something better and more important than better teachers to get to a better school, she has to say from. Otherwise, it could be tempting, a bit rhetorical, to put a question back to the Labour Party – if you think there are more jobs in the private sector by taxing business harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e457	The representative Jensen claims that there is more room for action in the municipalities now than it was under the red-green government. Then it is strange to read about cuts in the school sector, cut into the care of the elderly, there are fewer municipalities budgeting for the recommended profit; there are actually more budgeting for deficits, and there are several municipalities on the ROBEK list. In the evening post today we can read that 45 more municipalities have had to introduce property taxes. It is clear that when the creep is empty, the municipalities have two choices: either to reduce the services or to introduce property taxes. The property tax curve for private homes was heavily broken in 2013 and is now going to the weather. Right-wing rapporteurs who have opted for property tax not to be introduced in their municipality if they come to power, have now seen to have to do so. It's hardly of pleasure, but it's of necessity. Is it the case that local politicians have become far too poor to deal with these extremely good budgets, or what makes them have to go to a heavy cut, if it is such a good deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e464	I'm recording that Heidi Greni must have started reading newspapers lately, if it's only recently that she's seen that municipal politicians have to make priorities. This has been done for all years, and I sincerely hope that the representative Greni read newspapers and then similar notices when the Senter Party itself sat with the municipal minister. - That's the one. The second is property taxes. Right-wing people and I as Right-wing people are not happy that Norwegian municipalities seem to have to go to the introduction of property taxes. I record from today's article that there are a significant number of central party-driven municipalities that introduce property taxes. If you read the article, you'll see that most of the decisions on the introduction of municipal property taxes must have been taken while it was still a red-green government. It actually takes some time to get the property tax introduced. So this has happened – yes, I agree, it’s not a lucky situation that many Norwegian municipalities choose to introduce property taxes, but I think that the representative of Greni must take co-responsibility, as these decisions were taken while the Senter party sat with the municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e471	There is no doubt that Norwegian municipalities need more money, both to hire more teachers, to get enough people to care for and care for, and to carry out good business development. The new corporate tax system that the government is now proposing to introduce is not only a redistribution between municipalities, to municipalities where the wheels go so laughing, and from municipalities that experience relocation and difficulties, but it is also a scheme for carpentry privatisation in the municipalities. Because if you privatize kindergartens and care for the elderly, you will grow in private jobs, and that's what the government intends to count. My question to Frank Jensen is: Does Frank Jensen and Right believe that municipalities that get less money with this scheme will improve their business development, and why not all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e479	We think it is right that Norwegian municipalities that succeed in creating growth in private business should get more for it. I think it is more alarming that many argue as if you are basically against the fact that competent municipalities that generate growth in the labour market are to be rewarded for it. In the model proposed, a relatively small proportion of the total tax revenue is proposed for redistribution, but it provides incentives and is positive for successful municipalities. I think it is important and right that Norwegian municipalities can work to become even more business-friendly. I think it is right that Norwegian municipalities can succeed in creating new growth in business in the future. It's not about the job you've done before, whether you've been good or bad before. No matter what kind of starting point you have, whether you're on the coast or on the mountains, if you have a big or a small business life from before, that effort you make is to be rewarded. We believe, unlike many others, that Norwegian municipalities themselves are able to influence their own industrial policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e489	Most of the public welfare is produced in the municipalities. Municipalities are called for in terms of childcare, education, care, social work, older people’s measures, technical services and cultural services. It is therefore important for the Storting to catch up and use the signals we get about the needs when we are going to put in this room a lot of the framework for the action space of local democracy. This is a responsibility we should have great humility towards. We have behind us a processing of a big message about the tasks of the municipalities related to the forthcoming municipal reform. This is closely related to today's case. The community proposition today has a direct connection with the ideology and the social view we build our decisions around. The ideology of the Christian People's Party is human dignity in the centre, built on the principle of subsidiarity. The State must provide a reasonable framework for decisions on everyday life to be taken as close as possible to the decision. That is why we also use the bold term ‘people’s party’. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the proposed increase in the 2016 framework is essentially provided as free resources. It's local politicians who know their municipality best. Designation should only be used for new measures and for making special promises in some areas of society. The proposition shows that the government is adding up to a real growth in the municipal sector of between 6 and 7 billion. kr in 2016. We would like to see that it was more, but all the factors taken into account are a municipal proposition on the even. Around the municipalities it is said: Yes, real growth and real growth, we do not believe that until we see it. And we're going to listen to that, because often the real growth is eaten up by increasing needs, not least because of the demographic composition. But policy is to prioritize and distribute scarce benefits and disadvantages. Demographic developments will increase the need for public welfare services over the next decades. By 2040, the number of older people over 67 will double. It gives rise to challenges, but managed correctly and with the health development we see among young seniors, we as a society must value resources and not add up to passivating after the age of retirement. The population of urban areas is increasing, resulting in the need to develop infrastructure and public services. Increased private purchasing power and well-being contribute to increasing citizens’ expectations about the quality and extent of municipal services. My own expectation of what society is going to do is dramatically different from what my parents' generation could expect. We are facing a situation with less growth in the economy and higher unemployment. At the same time, municipalities have a significant maintenance run on buildings and structures. In such a situation, it may be appropriate to use means of action that can both counteract unemployment, stimulate the economy and contribute to the solution of the recession. As a cooperation party with the government, we are pleased to point this out in the note form and expect it to be noticed. I am also pleased that a Joint Committee comments on the increase in beneficiaries of social assistance after 2009, with a particular increase in 2014. With some increase in unemployment, we have to expect that there may be a continued increase in municipal social assistance expenditure. Such increases may have a significant impact on local government budgets. As mentioned above, it is impossible to deal with the municipal proposition without going to the forthcoming municipal reform. The majority of the population has a goal of making municipalities more robust and able to improve the quality of services and strengthen local democracy. It's great to see that this work is going on well in many municipalities and regions. In this context, we must stand together to give up power from the state level, so that it becomes a real democratic reform. In line with the agreement on the revised national budget for 2015, the government will allocate 10 million. kr in loss compensation to county councils with significant loss of income. The Christian People's Party is pleased to contribute to the substantial strengthening of the system of holiday relief funds, and we must continue to focus on and monitor closely the consequences of the income system for county municipalities. The Christian People's Party has contributed to the success of the reform process, with a view to creating strong regional units, namely the elected regional level. In the context of the revised national budget, there will be no majority to transfer the tax collection function. It is the Christian People's Party so far satisfied with it. Otherwise, we are pleased with a good compensation scheme for resource-intensive services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e526	I would like to thank the representative for a good contribution with many wise reflections, which I share far on the way, including, freely quoted, that we must obtain and use the signals we get about the need outside. Today we can read in our country where a party colleague of the representative Tuskedal, the representative of Bollestad, today says: “When I read about the use of coercion, I became irritable anger.” – I think that’s a feeling many of us share. In addition, Bollestad said: ‘Using such a compulsive pyche is a symptom of busyness.’ My question will then be: how does the representative of the Tuskedal feel to defend and support a government that spends the great money on tax celebrations for those who have the most, while at the same time seeing unworthy relationships in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e541	With regard to the wording and the matter, I share the view of the representative of Bollestad that this is not the way we can do it. Dignity, ethical reflection and ways of treating the elderly are for the Christian People's Party one of the main things, not least from our motto and our human vision. So that's what we're sharing. And we're assuming that our representatives in the municipalities are also fighting for it to the full. As for the tax haven, it has not been the needs and wishes of the Christian People's Party. But we support a government where we have strengthened the municipal economy in line with the growth that was in the red-green period. The Christian People's Party has had a positive impact on many issues that the government initially did not include, among other things. resource-intensive services in the field of drugs and psychiatry. Then we have to listen to signals from the municipalities. If it turns out to be a bias here, we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e550	I'm glad of that answer. Then the representative Tuskedal should know that if he discovers that more money is needed out there, it's just to come to the Workers' Party and vote for our proposals. I have another question related to this corporate tax model, which in many ways follows the government's great idea of taking from those who have the least and who labor, and giving to those who have the most, and where things go well. I can't, with respect to reporting, understand that it's a model that the Christian People's Party with its values seems to be a good model. So I wonder if the representative can say what is the Christian People's Party's position on corporate tax, where to take from the vast majority of municipalities, who might need the money most to stimulate growth, and give to the very few municipalities that are already doing very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e557	First of all, I thank you for the offer to come to the opposition – because they always have money! Then I record that the view of corporate tax is a difficult matter. It is the main responsibility of the Financial Committee. With regard to today's proposition, we do not support the proposal for corporate tax. We have not been able to go into it, because we believe the model is not designed in an optimal way. So we have a different view of corporate tax than the government and the left. That's because we want and are looking for a good model. I can't explain here all the variables that have to be contained in such a model, but we're not satisfied with the model that has been presented as a government proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e566	In the position of the Municipal Committee on the State Budget for 2015, the Christian People's Party states in its own comment: ‘This member would point out that the conversion to a new income system for county municipalities is taking place too quickly and has a significant impact on individual counties. In particular, it appears to be unfortunate for counties with many boat and ferry routes and scattered settlements.» A joint note with the Left states that: ‘These members consider that, in the context of the treatment of the 2016 municipal proposal, one has to assess whether there is a need to strengthen the loss compensation for the most deprived counties.’ As you know, the government does not promote any proposals for the conversion of the cost keys. Together with the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party promotes proposals for an increased loss compensation scheme. We have made proposals to increase the subsidy for the boat and the ferry by 200 million. crowns on the so-called C-list of the most vulnerable coastal regions. Will the Christian People's Party support these proposals to follow up their earlier concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e581	With regard to the county keys – the economy of the county municipalities – it was finally revised after 20-30 years of standstill, which I should not go into more detail, but it was a strange experience. It is now in line with the keys that the authorities are trying to provide as objectively as possible. The Christian People's Party and the Left have committed 60 million. extra in budgetary terms for the next five years as compensation. It was an addition of 10 million. kr this year, which we are also satisfied with. The Christian People's Party is afraid that perhaps more money is needed and will fight for it further in the budgets, but the need has to come up now. The ferry and boat counties have been reported to have problems because it interferes with the keys. Therefore, it was taken out as a separate arrangement, and in addition to 40 years of interest compensation, these states are now well equipped. But we'll follow that situation very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e588	I have to say I'm disappointed when the representative of the Christian People's Party is talking about that there are more people who need social assistance as if it's the biggest problem for the municipalities – as if it weren't the biggest problem that many more people are now struggling and having it difficult. The second is that there are many issues in the care of the elderly that show that more people are needed. For example, not long ago the NRK reported from a nursing home where a nursing student himself was sitting with a dying patient because there were not enough people to sit there. No one's supposed to lie alone and die in a nursing home. That's when I wonder about the tax haven that has taken the money we could have given to the municipalities to hire enough people, or follow up people who have a hard time. What are the Christian People's Party's issues in the cooperation they are in now, and which is more important than enough people in the care of the elderly, and that there is enough money to help the most disadvantaged in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e596	There are some parts of the criticism that one takes seriously, and then there are other parts that one wonders about. I just commended the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment for the fact that the entire Committee has registered concerns about social protection in the future. When it comes to care for the elderly and the need for help there, I think SV and the Christian People's Party can quickly come together. It is one of our greatest concerns that care and health services must be good in the municipalities. So it's pointed out: what has the Christian People's Party achieved? Well, we've put in more money for drugs and psychiatry, and we've put in more money for resource-intensive services. I can go into a long list, but time doesn't allow it. There is at all an increase in free resources that municipalities can now freely dispose of. Then we will follow the signals from the municipalities and work further with SV – I hope – in these very areas. But criticism of the fact that the Christian People's Party does not fight for this, I do not accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e603	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e606	The Central Party proposes to increase the revenue of the local government sector by 3,570 billion. kr. 2.5 B.C.E. SEK of which is free income distributed by 2 billion. kr for the primary municipalities and 500 mill. kr to counties. In addition, we're proposing over 1 billion. in budgetary resources in specific areas, such as transport, food development and enhanced school provision. The government's 2016 signals provide a tight financial framework for the municipalities and pass on the redistribution we've seen over the last few years, from municipalities that have little before, to those that sit best in it. Although there is a limited correction of the tax deficit, the municipalities now experience in the revised national budget, which we are going to deal with on Friday, it is a sad fact that in 2016 the municipal sector has to deal with the consequences of the tax failure in 2014 and 2015. The financial framework provided by the government through the government budgets of these years has failed. Municipalities operate within state-sponsored frameworks and have experienced cutbacks in the framework that are not compensated. Then the municipalities have one thing to do: they have to cut the welfare offer to the inhabitants. There are people who are entitled to municipal care services and school places, who pay the price in terms of poorer offers. KS has published information on the situation in the booklet ‘Tax malfunctions — Municipalities and Norwegian economy’. This shows that, in the years from 2004 to 2013, municipalities have achieved a VAT increase in relation to the estimates of 20 billion. kr at current prices. The red-green government contributed to the growth of the local economy by keeping tax receipts in addition to estimates in municipalities. In the last two years, the local government sector has had to cover most of the tax failure through cuts in services or through increased taxes and property taxes. More than ever, municipal property taxes pay for their housing, and the rates increase. This is contrary to the promises made by the Right and the Advance Party in their programmes. Promises that are not followed up in practice are not worth much. In the last two years, the government has carried out a redistribution of municipalities and counties between them, which is very negative for the districts. The regional development funds have been cut by 30 pst. in two years. The decision on new cost keys for the allocation of framework grants to county municipalities has led to the becoming the major losers in North Norway and the coastal regions. In our budget statement, we're correcting some of this. We think it's going to have to add 600 million. to regional development funds for county councils, and that it is necessary to strengthen the appropriations for racial, slip and flood protection. In the committee consultation, we were shown how the new cost keys underfinance the real costs of boating and ferrying in the counties. The centre party believes that the cost keys need to be reviewed, but until it is completed, we will add 200 million. kr on the C-list under free resources. The Centre Party proposed last year to implement a system of holiday-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-rescue-res. By converting the cost keys last year, the counties lost their ability to finance the bridge or tunnel that replaced the ferry, with provision from their own framework appropriations. Now a joint committee follows. That's good, but the Center Party wants to see if this system should also apply to boat routes. The conversion of corporate tax, where municipalities will receive a new income based on local value creation, will take money from most municipalities and give to a few. The centre party has led the Ministry of Finance to calculate the effects. They were discouraging. 40 municipalities win, and 388 municipalities lose. It's probably the sheriff of Nottingham and not Robin Hood who's the government's ideal in the distribution policy. Last year, the growth grant increased by 330 million. kr. Municipalities with low growth or population decline paid the entire bill. The centre party was in favour of increasing the growth grant, but added it as an increased framework. The conversion of corporation tax has a much larger bill, about Three billion. kr, sent to Kommune-Norge. Communes of commuters in central districts and the vast majority of districts were cut into their borders. They are told by the government to reduce their welfare benefits so that municipalities that are better placed to strengthen their offerings. The Centre Party proposes that the Government should delete the proposal for the conversion of corporate tax. The scheme presented by the government to stimulate private value creation in municipalities also has another effect that is not described, but which they may consider to be a positive side effect. When municipalities are to receive back some of the local value creation based on the salary base of the local business community, this means that additional municipal benefits are granted to those who privatise care for the elderly, school and kindergarten. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party has put forward, and the ones that we are with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e632	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e637	A Joint Committee determines that the efficiency, renewal and modernisation of the public sector is crucial to ensuring the well-being of individuals and to properly manage the Community's resources. That means that the Center Party also agrees with that. Nevertheless, the Centre Party is opposed to almost all the reforms presented by the government, and also most of the reforms adopted in recent times in the Stortinget. My question is: What concrete action will the Centre take to streamline, renew and modernise the public sector, ensuring the well-being of individuals and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e642	The centre party of course agrees that we need to streamline and optimise municipal services, but for us, efficiency is not the same as merging into large units. Rather, on the contrary, economies of scale will often be greater than the benefits of such aggregations. It seems like the government has a lot of faith that just everything gets big enough, it gets effective enough, and everything gets hurt well. I wonder if the representative Lødemel has seen the studies that show that the services are actually better in the smallest municipalities, and that the inhabitants are more satisfied with the services in the smallest municipalities – quite contrary to the idea that there are large units that provide it all, the very best offer. We still have to work to make the municipal sector more efficient. In our time, we started the ‘Sammen om een kommune’ project, a very good project, where employers’, employees’ and user organisations work together to find better and more effective solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e649	I noticed with pleasure that the centre party applauded the unity attached to the ferry release agents. That it's the Central Party's idea of 40 years, well, it's a bit long, but it's nice that one joins when the four cooperation parties pointed out in 40 years first. However, my question is: I showed in my main post that when Hidra was going to be expanded and there was a proposition, the red-green government said that 20 years of holiday settlement is enough. So the county said it's not good enough, we don't build out, and then one didn't do anything. So in reality, what's left of the red-green, is that one left 20 years on the table and no longer went. Why didn't the Center Party do more if it's so busy with suspension? They sat with both the Minister of State and the Minister of Transport for eight years, and then 20 years they were able to put on the table for state roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e656	the centre party promoted in the examination of the municipal proposal last year the proposal which is now adopted unanimously by the Committee. So who has invented the powder, we can discuss both well and long, but it was at least our proposal that was voted down by the majority here in the Chamber a year ago. We're very pleased that we've now been able to figure it out. The need was, after all, exacerbated by the conversion of the cost keys to the county councils, since then it was restricted to the possibility that county councils themselves could allocate funds to investment funds that they could use for holiday relief. As the cost keys were changed so that there is no longer a coastline that counts, that possibility disappeared. Therefore, this was updated especially when the cost keys were changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e661	I listened to the post of the Center Party and heard that they also have two to three billion. kr extra to distribute, as otherwise the opposition has the privilege to promote. We're always looking for logical decisions and principles as far as possible across the board. One of them is the KS who has left behind, namely that in the case of tax revenue, a municipality that has profits will have to dispose of the profits in funds and things they may need. When tax revenue fails, to a greater or lesser extent, the municipality shall likewise be responsible for disposing of its resources. This really depends on the confidence of local politicians. I look forward to hearing the Central Party's presentation of how they view this principle, when they now have so much money to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e671	It is said from the government parties that the frame is roughly equal to what was in red-green time, and it is not so far away from the truth. But what's the truth is that they have a two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr in tax error from 2014 and there is nothing the municipalities If you do not want to fully compensate, we must at least make sure that the municipalities are able to provide good services to their citizens. Thus, as they have succeeded in doing so, they are not able to deliver the same good services in 2015, nor will they be able to do it in 2016 when they have to pay the penalty from 2014 and 2015. So what should be our big goal is that the municipalities can still deliver good services, and then we have to look at how much we have to compensate. I don't think the compensation that came into revision now will enable the municipalities to deliver equally good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e677	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e680	The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society, one of the basic conditions for us to have equivalent opportunities across the country and to facilitate people living where they want to. Cultural and leisure activities are important, and there must be access to a wide range of cultural experiences in the districts as well. A bet on children and young people is one of the keys to that. The ever-increasing efficiency, renewal and modernisation of the public sector is crucial to ensuring our future well-being. It is crucial to ensure sufficient labour in welfare production over the years to come. This is why it is important for a sustainable future municipal structure that takes account of it, so that one gets to move more power and authority to the municipalities, which will give citizens more influence on their own everyday lives. Today's municipal structure is in stark contrast to today's housing and labour market and service areas. Many of the municipalities no longer have the opportunity to take an overall approach to industrial development, environmental policies, land use and increasingly complex and demanding public services, including: in the field of health and care. Local self-government is increasingly restricted by state detail management and is losing ground to state regulations and circulars – not least. That's why the Left wants to shift more power downwards, and closer to people, to make it easier for citizens to get a better offer in their community. Over several years, the left has worked to reduce poverty, in particular that affecting children. It is important to give all children good opportunities to go to kindergarten and participate in the school leisure system. Therefore, we give priority to reducing rates for low-income families and extending the system of free core time in kindergartens through flexible admission, which allows more people to have kindergartens when they need it. In addition to capacity, it is also necessary to focus on the quality and competence requirements of unskilled children's households. One of the most important municipal tasks is to ensure that children and young people have a good upbringing, and here health stations and school health services play a central role. It is important to strengthen municipal child protection services and to stimulate closer cooperation between school and child protection. The increasing unemployment rate among young people and the high rate of dropout in secondary schools are worrying. Early efforts in the first year of life and in the first years of school are important, but more concrete measures need to be taken, including: the increase of apprenticeship grants in order to bring more apprentices into the labour market. The work of getting more young people to work will also be prioritised by the Left in the future. The municipality is very important for providing good care, from home help to health care facilities. These are important services for citizens, which help them to have a safe and dignified old age. Many of those who work in the care sector are women, and it is important that municipalities contribute to the widest possible availability of full-time jobs in that sector. At the same time, the left will underline the importance of a good compensation scheme for municipal expenditure on resource-intensive services. We also believe that voting rights by providing trust and responsibility are also an important element in local elections. Therefore, the Left believes that giving young people the right to vote when they are 16 years old will be to manage that trust well, and they can manage it themselves in the same way as those who are over 18 years old. The left is very pleased that the holiday relief system for state roads has come into place, with an increase from the government's proposal to what we are going to adopt today, in 40 years. The left will signal that, in the same way, it is necessary to put in place the same national road haulage system. It is an important regional policy instrument. Cost keys may not be static; one must always assess the objective effects on the criteria set. The country is varied, and people must have the same opportunities to live in all parts of it. That's why the left has been clear about, in terms of loss compensation, that the states that have lost the most had to have a softer transition. That's why we're also satisfied that it's 10 million. kr extra in the revised national budget, which comes to just that, in order to avoid unintended effects, in particular on advanced education, because it may not be an objective that the maximum number of students should be absent. The left wants stronger municipalities that are active developers of their communities, including business and workplace organisation. Therefore, it is important that municipalities reward them when they succeed in facilitating business and new jobs. Therefore, the Left supports the introduction of corporate tax. This is also in the light of the announced review of the municipal income system in the municipal proposition for 2017. We in the Left have long been clear that we want to introduce a natural resource tax regime for wind power, in line with what one has on hydropower, so that the municipalities are left with a greater share of the income from the industry. Furthermore, we are pleased that a broad majority now contributes to strengthening the municipalities that provide farmland for aquaculture, where one benefits from a marine fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e711	The left is not only in favour of, but strongly in favour of the proposal to introduce the so-called corporate tax to the municipalities. It's redistributing, according to the numbers that we know today, approx. Three billion. kr – in the proposal it is said to be SEK 2.9 billion. kr. As we can understand from the figures we also have, there are forty municipalities that will serve on the scheme, and in the Nord-Trøndelag – the representative’s own county – all municipalities, except one, will lose weight on this. The question then arises: How does the Left and the representative of Skkelstad feel that such a scheme is a good one for the municipalities, for example. Nord-Trøndelag? And: how will this put the municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag – and e.g. Eastfold, where will all municipalities lose out on such an introduction of corporate tax – better able to develop their business life, when they actually get less money to drive business development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e718	First of all, we are in favour of introducing corporate tax, as the representative points out, and then we have to come back and look at the accuracy of the models. However, I am a little surprised by a former rapporteur who disagrees that facilitating business and value creation in municipalities is negative. This is, in my opinion, one of the values of creating new jobs, and then I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding why this should be so negative, because this arrangement also creates well-being. I thought the representative of Lauvås agreed, but I might have been wrong there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e725	I am, as the representative of Skkelstad is in, so lucky to have been a municipal politician, a local politician, for many years. I have also been lucky to have traveled around and visited a lot of municipalities, talking to many rapporteurs and advisers, and, by the way, they all – almost every day – work quite hard to create and facilitate more people to establish their business in their own municipality. And if the representative of Skkelstad has a different view of it, I would like to hear which municipalities he believes do not at all do his job trying to create business development in his own municipality. I have a completely different opinion from the representative of Skkelstad, who clearly believes that around 380 rapporteurs, councillors and local councillors are some unaccompanied workers and do not want jobs in their own municipality. But if the model were to show that this gets these results, which we've been able to figure out so far, will the Left then change its view of corporate tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e732	First of all, from the long approach to this from a former rapporteur from Østfold, I have no doubt that rapporteurs are not trying to facilitate economic development, nor are those who sit in the local local authorities. I just think they see the value of being able to create well-being, create jobs. Then the key might be to join and stimulate that there will also be a premiere of those who are able to get even more jobs in place. In the case of keys, it's always that one never knows how accurate it is before one gets to see it. We will now be able to see that – in the light of a new income key next year – and then we will be absolutely sure to hit this 100 pst. But the very incentive, I think, is very correct, because one then facilitates those who can create new jobs. But I understand that the representative Lauvås still does not fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e739	The Committee majority – the Left, the Christian People’s Party and the government parties – points out in a note to the report of the government’s expert committee and believes it is a good starting point for further work and discussion in the municipalities on the municipal reform. They also say that they are positive that the government is working on the reform and focusing on the challenges of democracy. The local government reform will lead to a large reduction in the number of local government members, from 11,000 to perhaps 4000. Signy Vabo was asked if it was a democratic problem that the number was reduced, and then answered that there was no problem, but an advantage, because the competition then grew, understanding that there was more to choose from when to choose from local government representatives. Does the Left agree with Vabo that fewer local government representatives are an advantage to local democracy, meaning that the quality of today's local politicians is too poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e748	I believe the quality of local politicians is reasonably good throughout the country. I don't doubt it. Of course, there will be fewer. The left has, as I said, never entered to trample on the number of local governments. But I also think it would be beneficial for those who are local politicians to have real opportunities to influence the real situation. I myself have been sitting in a local government for such a long time that I know that this is exactly what you are going to adopt, which is the main part of this. Then, of course, there will be some challenges that there may be fewer local government representatives. But I think the sum will be a local democracy that will last over time. When one did this before us, with a municipal reform in 1964 – from 700 municipalities to around 428 – it also became fewer local politicians. I think we can also create a good local democracy because there are fewer municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e755	There is no doubt that both the municipal reform and the conversion of corporate tax are a framework for centralisation and privatisation. How to imagine municipalities struggling with relocation, for example. The cornerstone company loses a large contract, should be better able to facilitate business by losing money, is a mystery. But at least SV and Left have agreed on one thing in terms of privatisation, and that is that we have wanted transparency about contractual relationships and everything that concerns agreements that the municipality does with private individuals. Therefore, it is with great amazement that the Left does not support the proposal of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left to have ‘openness around key quality indicators, the manning situation,’. [[...]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e762	André N. Skkelstad, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e766	The representative Andersens has an interesting entrance to conversion in Norwegian municipalities. I myself live in an industrial community where we have had to convert quite many times. Of course, the municipality has contributed, but there is no doubt that if we had not had the opportunity from the private business, we would not have been able to succeed when we had 60 new jobs in the company a few years ago that had been laid down a few years earlier. It is absolutely essential that you have a private business, but it is also, of course, essential that you make a public appearance. At the time, the county council also set up, in partnership with the municipality. I cannot understand Andersen's indwelling distrust of the private, because a person is unable to solve it to get jobs in place just through the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e774	SV believes that municipalities manage some of the most important functions in society: school and care, culture, business organisation, climate and environmental responsibility. That's why we believe that what the municipalities need now is enough money to do the tasks they already have, because they don't have enough. They don't need any more problems, they need more money. They also need a little more money to do things on their own initiative. They don't have enough to do that today either. That's why we're increasing the frame the most by 6 billion. kr. There is a need to do so, including: because you're carrying a tax failure of over 2.5 billion. non-compensated – because municipalities need to strengthen schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and cultural services, and precisely because they need to be better business organisers. It needs all municipalities, and no one gets better at getting less money. And so we're strengthening it with half of what the government and the majority have chosen to give out in tax papers to the richest in this country. Strengthening the community economy is very important in situations where you have a little trouble with the economy. It's an important counter-cyclical policy, and you achieve good things, as it seems like everyone agrees, but you don't want to finance well enough. Municipalities also need to offer disadvantaged families a much better offer than what they do today. I hear that someone is afraid that social assistance is increasing. Yes, it does, and then you have to have something other than forced to do, which the government wants – you have to have money to offer the families that need help, an economy that makes them stand on their feet. They need money, so that the young people who fall out of high school get an offer, for example. on qualification programmes. It seems good. The government doesn't bet on it. We need more employees in the care of the elderly. Investigations have taken place, including: the report ‘Human rights in Norwegian nursing homes’, which stated that even fundamental human rights are being violated. We have made proposals on this, and we see that there is a need for a crew reform in the municipalities to ensure that there are enough staff. There is also a need for municipalities to have money to bring in apprentices in the care and health professions. Municipalities have only wage costs and not income on apprentices, as private enterprises have. That is why we have put room for this in the local economy, and that it should also be possible to invest in several hospitals. Children and young people need more adults they can trust, and they need enough teachers in school, so teachers have time to talk to all students every day. Unfortunately, many students are not adequately trained. The children need more adults, and they need healthy food and more time to move. It's good for learning and for health. The children and the families need us to start a reform with the full-day school, and SV is happy that several parties gradually join this and see that it is necessary. The lessons can be done at school with a teacher present. And broad use of methods in school is unusually important for all students to be seen. There has been a discussion about property taxes today, and I have read the Evening Post today. I have also read that the Minister of Finance believes that the municipalities do not need the property tax. So it's going to be 10 billion. kr. That's 10 billion. as the country’s finance minister – and leader of the Progress Party – believes that the municipal sector should clearly cut. It would be interesting to know which jobs are available, which teachers will be given up, which hospitals will have fewer employees – and there will be a huge impact on the community sector. So I was quite shocked by that statement from the Minister of Finance. Some municipalities are growing. SV believes that these municipalities should have growth grants, but we want to put them on the top of the frame and not deduct the money from municipalities that are struggling with relocation. I take up the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e793	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e798	In a previous line – I think it was for the Christian People's Party – Karin Andersen went high and almost attacked the Christian People's Party in terms of poverty and other things. Karin Andersen has been very clear that it is important for SV to eliminate poverty. It has previously been one of SV's fighting matters and it may still be. Nevertheless, there is a fact that when SV left the government, there were more poor children in Norway than when SV joined the government. The question is, what was the SV that was more important than abolishing poverty? Was it the defence appropriations, the asphalt appropriations, or was it other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e805	I record that this issue of child poverty now comes from a party that when they came into government, as the first thing they did was to suggest increasing child poverty by thousands. So it was suggested to remove the children's supplement for those who are disqualified. They would have lost over $30,000 a year. It was proposed to remove the transitional aid for two years. So these are the families who have the worst advice and who have the greatest chance of their family remaining in permanent poverty. It was difficult to fight for some of these measures when we were in government, but it did not look like what we have seen now, where the government is targeting the poorest children's families and proposing cutbacks for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e810	SV wants to be an active party, and they have a lot of theories and ideology about governance principles, but when it comes to community reform, I experience them reactive. Instead of accepting an action from the government, we get a reaction. I won't accuse them of being reactionary, but contradictions they agree with. SV writes in the proposition that municipalities need to build skills, they need to become stronger, they need to build in law, in construction and construction, etc. – and at the same time they are against the community reform. But if you're going to get this competence in place, you're going to have to have bigger municipalities. Does SV mean, then, that democracy will continue to live on in intercommunal companies and limited liability companies, as they stick to that contradiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e815	This was an article that doesn't rhyme with the truth. SV is not against municipalities merging; we are opposed to the government's forced reform in the municipal sector. It's obvious if the Christian People's Party now believes that quality requirements for, for example, should be removed. different services in municipalities – that there should be no requirement for staff to carry out these tasks and also implement national government policies in important areas of competence. Yes, intermunicipal cooperation is no problem. I even record that when the Christian People's Party has now agreed to say that you should add, for example. Public transport to large municipalities is suddenly realized that there will be a terrible number of actors there. It must then be pointed out that these municipalities – which now receive a new responsibility they have never asked for – may now need to cooperate in larger units than the county municipalities were. To say it like that, I think the confusion is greater in the Christian People's Party than what they've taken in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e822	The representative referred to the word ‘confusion’. Then I became a little uncertain, because in some of the comments from SV in what we are dealing with today, SV shows that the loan debt is very high and that an interest rate increase will quickly turn out. And many municipalities have many short-term loans and the need for investment is high in the future in both school and nursing homes, but especially in health homes. Then I wonder, has that recognition come in the last two years? Isn't it that this is similar to the big needs in the past – not least when SV was in government? Is that what confuses now, that one is out of government and has become so clear that one sees that these challenges have suddenly emerged? Or is it that the Center Party and the Workers' Party felt that this was not necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e829	The challenges have been great for a long time, but the debt has increased a lot, and there are many municipalities now that have short-term loan agreements – among other things. had a meeting with the Municipal Bank, which says that they do not have the capacity to take over these loans in the short term in the event of major changes in the interest rate market. That's one thing. The second is that this government has carried out a historically large tax cut and given the money to the richest. That money is actually possible to spend in a different way. And so when that room is available, SV chooses to use it on several senior care employees, so that old people don't have to be afraid and alone, and on more teachers in school, so that each student can be seen and get more knowledge, more seabilly and leave school with a great deal of faith in himself. We want to strengthen, among other things: the ability of the municipality to follow up people who are disadvantaged, and we also strengthen the climate and environmental work in the municipal sector, which I record is that the left does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e836	I would like an answer to the question asked by the representative Jensen, Andersen, who she refused to answer. We've seen in time that one of the trademarks of the representative Karin Andersen is moralizing towards political competitors and opponents, and she was very clear in her line to the Christian People's Party that as long as you have unsolved tasks in an area, for example. Child poverty, and you haven't managed to eliminate it, that is, you've priorityed mistakes. The representative Jensen was, quite rightly, in his line that child poverty increased demonstrably at the time the Socialist Left Party was in government, and then the representative Andersen had to be able to answer that question with his own logic: what was more important than abolishing child poverty, as it increased with the Socialist Left Party in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e844	I can, to say it like that, accept the mouths of those who are disadvantaged, but I do not take it from parties that sail actively promoting suggestions to make more families with children and poor children. When SV was in government, there was no majority on the Stortinget for a better policy in this area. That's what it does now, and that's why I'm criticising the Christian People's Party that could now have gone to the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV and got a majority of proposals that would have been better to strengthen, among other things. the poor families with children. They don't. That majority did not exist when SV put in government, then there was no majority that was better than that government in this Stortinget. On the contrary, both the Right and the Advance Party also considered the same and presented the same cut-off proposals for child poverty, and now further increases child poverty. And the UN has just presented a report that shows that child poverty in Norway actually went down during our reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e852	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a thorough and good treatment of the municipal proposal, which is a very important and comprehensive matter. This proposition provides a framework for some of the most important tasks we're going to do next year. It is about how to enable municipalities to offer good kindergartens, which provide children with security and good opportunities for development. It's about setting a framework for the school to give each student an opportunity to learn as much as possible, so that they get the best opportunities in life. It is about the ability of municipalities to provide good care to young people and the elderly who need help to master their daily lives. And it's about strengthening the social security network, so that more people get lifted up and fewer fall outside. The framework we provide for the municipal sector today is also crucial for how municipalities can discharge their responsibilities for technical services and for social development. And it's not least about how the municipalities evolve as the arena of local democracy and as employers. I am pleased that the population survey now presented shows that the population is more satisfied with the municipal services today than they were two years ago. I also notice that the total population is the most satisfied in the municipalities that have more than 20 000 inhabitants. In order to achieve the key objectives of the local government sector in the future, we need to ensure that municipalities have a good and predictable framework and that resources are fairly distributed throughout the country. With the income framework we are notifying for the municipal sector next year, we have arranged for municipalities to continue to develop their welfare offerings to their inhabitants. We're notifying a growth in the total revenue of 6-7 billion. kr and a growth in the free income of between 4,5 and 5 billion. kr. Consequently, the growth of the free revenues is in line with the average growth in recent years. However, if we are to get an overall picture of the actual economic situation in the municipalities, we need to look at more factors than the percentage of income growth. It is also about the development of costs. Both in 2014 and 2015, we see that different elements are moving in different directions. Tax revenue is weaker than intended, but we also see that expenditure, among other things. for remuneration and demographic development are lower than expected. The government has, following an overall assessment, proposed to strengthen the municipalities' framework by 1.1 billion. kr in the revised national budget. After the negotiations with the Christian People's Party, this has increased to 1.2 billion. kr. I notice that the Workers' Party, which throughout this spring has blackened the situation in Kommune-Norway and talked about the need for cutbacks in the local economy, actually proposes to allocate less money to the municipalities than the bourgeois parties do for 2015. That means that the credibility of the party that has tried to blackpaint is not very great. We also continue the practice that has had broad political outreach, namely that there should be no automatic compensation for tax failures, but that a concrete assessment of the overall economic situation in the municipal sector should be made. According to KS, the real economic space in the municipalities for 2014–2016 is as good as the three previous years under the Stoltenberg government. The government believes that it is necessary to improve the provision of drug users and mental health challenges. We strengthen national offers and give local communities room for increased bets. Within the free incomes, we have provided leadership to ensure that municipalities give priority to school health services and improved provision in the field of drug and mental health. We did it in 2014, we do it in 2015, and we propose it for 2016. Now we expect the municipalities to follow up and give a lift to people who are struggling. However, although the financial framework for the municipal sector is good, it will still be necessary to make demanding priorities. It is still necessary to work for resources to be used in an even better way. That's the situation today, as it was in the last eight years. Last year, we updated the cost keys of county municipalities and made sure that they reflect more closely the actual expenditure of county municipalities on public transport, secondary schools and other services. After years of deferral of conversion, we are now in the process of introducing a more equitable system. We know it involves conversions in some counties, but the conversion phase is phased in gradually and with a good transitional arrangement. However, it is important to bear in mind that for many years, counties such as Rogaland, West Agder, South Trondelag, Buskerud, Oslo, Westfold and More and Romesdal have received significantly lower transfers than the needs of these counties. When the red-greens speak out critically about the conversion we have implemented, they should remember that it is the inhabitants of these counties who have paid the price for the necessary changes that have been put at risk for a long time. The conversion we're doing now will give these states a better chance to offer their inhabitants a more equivalent offer. One of the main areas of government activity is building the country. Through a sharp increase in investment in road, rail and public transport, we ensure that people can get home safely and that goods can arrive quickly. The appropriations for county roads have increased by more than 1 billion. NOK since 2013, and we announce a further increase next year. This increase is an important part of the government's regional and regional policy. I am also pleased that the Stortinge joins the government's proposal for a ferry redemption scheme for the county roads. This will allow many counties to replace ferries with bridges, roads and tunnels. This important reform will make a major difference in the daily lives of both peoples and businesses in the districts. Many of the prominent representatives of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right have insisted on this arrangement being implemented. By agreement with the bourgeois parties, it is extended to 40 years, and of course the government will follow up. It is also important to note that considerable work has been done to update the cost keys for boat and ferry, and the result is that the keys capture the real costs for this purpose. However, we also see that there is still a need to work on, and improve, the system. The size limits set for municipalities today are not just important to allocate values and resources. It is also important to facilitate the contribution of municipalities to creating values and jobs. I am pleased that the majority at Stortinget supports the proposal to allow municipalities to retain a greater proportion of the values created locally, through the return of parts of the corporate tax. The model we're designing will give all municipalities an opportunity to get a share of this income. When we base income on growth in wages and salaries, municipalities get a motivation to better facilitate growth. Instead of rewarding old industrial structures, municipalities are rewarded for new jobs. It is particularly important at a time of transition to the Norwegian economy, where many have to find new industries to live off. At the same time, the scheme we are proposing is moderate, and it will therefore also have moderate redistribution effects. All the pieces are not in place in the new scheme. It is also not possible to know in advance which municipalities will grow during the period under which the new income will be calculated. What we know is that it is right and important that values created in the municipalities also benefit the community. I note that in this debate, too, the Workers' Party is calling for tax increases. If there is one thing jobs in small and large societies do not need, there are tax increases in a time for conversion. It seems that the Workers' Party has abandoned or forgotten the old slogan to create the values before they are distributed. If we are to secure the welfare society in the years to come, we must ensure a good industrial policy, ensure that values are created. This is done by investing in infrastructure and by facilitating local economic policy. If municipalities are to succeed in providing good services to their inhabitants, there are not enough billions. We need people first and foremost. The municipalities need all the good employees and professionals who see the people and their different needs and who work together and provide good offers every day. If the municipalities are to win the fight for the labour force in the future, they must be even better employers. These include: to ensure that employees are able to develop their skills and to have exciting opportunities for development in municipalities at all times. The government is now making a promise of knowledge with a historic commitment, for example: development of competence for teachers in municipalities. Never before have so many teachers been offered continuing training. We also work systematically with skills development in the health and care sector, in kindergartens and in many other areas. A more general strategy is also to be developed, including employee organisations, as I note that the opposition is also concerned about. We are now facing a local election, where challenges and opportunities in the community are to be debated throughout the country. It is tempting to pursue short-term supply policies with more money and more measures. However, I do not believe that the municipalities are served with unrealistic promises of gold and green forests. Yes, the municipalities will have a better financial framework. However, it is also necessary to renew, simplify and improve municipal services, so that resources are used in an even better way. To help the municipalities in the pursuit of time thieves, the Ministry is now producing a guide — or cookbook — for the municipalities. The aim is for employees to spend less time on unnecessary reporting and bureaucratic processes and more time providing better and faster assistance to their citizens. Several municipalities already have good results to show: The municipality of ROBEK Vestre Toten is at the forefront of the fight against the thieves of time. They have revealed time thieves corresponding to 33 years' work, and according to the Municipal Report, almost 22 have had more constructive work instead. The councilman says they've only begun so far. Oslo Municipality is expanding the supply of welfare technology. It gives older people greater security in their everyday lives, and more older people can get good deals. Stavanger Municipality has come a long way in digitising services, including: within plan and construction. Finally, let me say that I am pleased that Mr Pedersen's representative from the Workers' Party is involved in the policy of the elderly. There's an engagement that's wide in all of the games here in the hall. But the Labour Party is missing in its criticism. Let me just show that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in 2009 launched a promise of full hospital coverage as one of the most important promises of red-green. In 2011, Helga Pedersen said that we will now set new goals, and until 2015 we will work day and night to ensure full hospital coverage or full-day nursing homes for those who need it. In 2015, a representative of the Workers' Party, who is now the Health Policy Spokesman of the Workers' Party, said that the Workers' Party had failed in government. A great deal remains to be done in the care of the elderly, but we have seen a significant increase in the number of applications and housing units with grant commitments by strengthening the grants to nursing homes and homes. It has increased from 1,378 places in 2013 to 2,463 places in 2014. The new KOSTRA figures, which came yesterday, also confirm that we are on the right track, that the coverage of exclusive spaces goes up, that the number of medical sessions goes up, and that the number of health and care workers in municipalities is rising. A lot is done, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e906	It seems that attack is the best defense, and the Council of State obviously lives in error when he claims that the Workers' Party will vote against extra appropriations of 1.2 billion. kr to the municipalities in revised form. We are going to vote for that, but in addition, we believe that the entire tax failure of the municipalities should be compensated at the end of the year. I have noticed that on several occasions the municipal minister has used the term ‘historical bet’ for this year’s municipal structure, and I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party are also extremely pleased with next year’s arrangement and refer it to it as the best of times. We're obviously in disagreement about that. What I would like to ask the municipal minister to comment on is something else, because the purpose of the municipal proposal is to give the municipalities predictability for next year. That is why my question is: will the Minister of State guarantee that they will at least keep the minimum limits they have proposed for next year, or will the Council and the rapporteurs have to plan for further cuts in June next year if a new tax failure occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e915	Here it was a little bit different. Only with regard to the draft for 2015 is it a reality that, in the revised national budget, when voted here on Friday, less money will be allocated to the Labour Party than the bourgeois parties have agreed. I have registered that the Labour Party is voting for the 1.2 billion. kr for which the civil parties have agreed, but the Workers' Party cuts in excess of 40 million. NOK, as compensation to municipalities for increased administrative expenditure. Then it is not correct that I have described the municipal structure as historical. I have, on the contrary, been very precise in giving some descriptions of the municipality layout. It has also been acknowledged by the KS, because there has been a problem that red-green politicians have always talked about the community scheme, and then there has been less money gradually. But what I've allowed myself to highlight is that there's a very strong commitment to drugs and mental health, and I'm glad – and we're going to continue that commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e924	I'd say it's pretty rude of the Council of State to say that when we vote against the 40 million. kr that the government has imposed on the municipalities in the form of increased administrative costs, it is produced as a cut. This is the money that should have been spent on kindergartens, not on more bureaucracy, which the government has provided. I noticed that the Minister of State did not answer my question. That's why I'm going to do it again: can the municipal minister guarantee that the municipalities will keep the minimum scheme they're now proposed by the government for next year? Or do we risk having them in new cutting processes in June in a year's time if there's a new tax failure? Or is it that the municipal minister thinks that municipalities have to rely on further raising property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e931	Others may consider what's naughty or not naughty. I only notice quite coolly that with the arrangements of the Workers' Party, when it is voted on Friday, there will be less money for the municipalities than it will be with the arrangements of the bourgeois parties. It seems to me to be in quite a contrast to the tune we have heard from the Workers' Party throughout this spring. We were also at the same meeting with 500 municipal politicians just a few weeks ago, and I assume that the representative from the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, also noticed that the municipal politicians were evenly satisfied with the arrangement we presented. Then we will continue the practice of which there has been broad political agreement, that there is no automatic change in tax failure. I take note that the Labour Party in opposition has a different policy than the one they had in position. We are going on with what has been a broad political consensus. Now we have made an overall assessment, and therefore we add more money to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e940	I note that the Council of State must be desperately looking for bad arguments. I would recommend that the Council of State concentrate on the matter we have to deal with today, and then the Workers' Party has within 3 billion. kr more than sitting government – only worth taking. But then I have to ask in connection with what is in the evening post today that there are 48 more municipalities, of which several blue-blue ones, have introduced property taxes. Some people are trying to blame former governments, I think that's pretty naughty, so I'm asking you right out: does the Minister of State agree with the Minister of Finance that this is fun, sucks – 10 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? This does not have to be recovered by the municipalities, it is only to improve the efficiency of the gold-edge economy that the Minister of Finance clearly believes we have now. Does Sanner agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e947	The descriptions might have been something on the top. I don't need to blame anyone. In the case of property taxes, there is a local decision, and that is a consequence of local self-government. So if the municipalities choose to introduce property taxes, it's the municipal election, and that's something you have to be prepared for, or responsible for, the voters. We have now looked at the municipalities that have introduced property taxes, and it is not that they have lower growth in the free income. They have a growth in the free income that makes them cover demographics and pensions and also the cost growth of municipalities. Then there is a local policy assessment whether or not to introduce property taxes, and I take note of the local authorities' choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e954	The government, with the support of the Left, will reintroduce a municipal corporate tax model from 2017 by assigning to municipalities a share of the tax calculated on the growth of private sector wages and salaries. The Centre Party has led the Ministry of Finance to calculate the distribution effect between municipalities by applying the proposed model for the years 2011 to 2013. The response to driving shows that 40 growth municipalities come out with increased income, the other 388 losses. In Eastfold, Hedmark, Oppland and Telemark all municipalities lose. In Vestfold, Nord-Trøndelag, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark there is one municipality that wins, and the rest loses. KS says in its comment on the proposal that there is no reason to believe that the organisation of municipalities for business is changing as a result of this proposal, and that it only represents an alternative distribution of part of the framework grant to municipalities. That's about. Three billion. kr which is redistributed. Does the Ministry of Finance's running confirm that this will result in a reasonable redistribution between municipalities, in the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e962	For information purposes only, it is the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation that has carried out these calculations, and whenever we consider different changes in the income system, calculations are made. But the consequence, if it had been implemented at an earlier time, is that my own municipality – Bærum – and Asker and Oppegård lose, while South Varanger in Finnmark wins. What does that illustrate? Well, it illustrates that different municipalities have the opportunity to win on this system, and we believe it is right that municipalities that facilitate local value creation and growth in local value creation also receive increased income. I'm a little surprised that the Center Party, with the tradition of the Center Party, is not willing to discuss the reintroduction of a local corporation tax and that the municipalities retain some of the value creation. For us, it's important. Not least when we are entering a transition period, it is important that municipalities are motivated to facilitate growth and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e967	The centre party believes that local politicians are also doing what they can today to create local jobs, and I don't think it will change anything with this conversion. My other question is about the municipal reform. The centre party has consistently argued that this is a centralisation and privatisation reform, and the conversion of corporate tax and the model chosen indicates that almost all of the steps being taken are to create more privatisation and more centralisation. The model rewards municipalities that submit a tender to grandmother by calculating the distribution based on the wage basis in the private sector. When the task message was presented, the comment from Helgesen was: ‘I have said before that a reform that in practice leads to a weakening of the elected regional level is a reform of even more government governance.’ So it's less democracy. Does the Council of State realise that more and more parties share the view of the Centre that the municipal reform is a centralisation and privatisation reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e979	I have not registered that there is any increased excitement about that vision. I record that there are some comments about it in the class struggle, but I have not registered that there is any broad support for the view that the representative is now expressing. The aim of the municipal reform is to ensure strong municipalities that can provide better services to citizens. I am convinced that this is the best measure to prevent strong centralisation, ensure that several of those who have been out studying, go home and settle in their old municipality. That is what the reform is all about. I am a little surprised by the lack of confidence in local politicians when it is said that reintroduction of this corporate tax will now lead to local government politicians putting Grandma out for tender, and we get large-scale privatisation. I have more confidence in local politicians than I did. I'm convinced that they think about the well-being of the people when they make their local choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e988	SV trusts that the municipalities can actually dispose of a much larger part of the economy, that they can manage it, and that they are interested in driving business development without the type of misaligned means of redistribution that the Right has. But there was one thing in Sanner's post that I totally agreed with. What he said was that it is about people, i.e. employees in the municipalities, if we are to get good services and that we have to win the fight for them. The proposition says that in 2023 only 28 000 more people are needed in the healthcare sector, and I expect that there are full-time jobs and not part-time jobs. It is then rather alarming that there are no instruments in this proposition to escalate the number of employees, for example. This is how SV believes that we must have standards of manning in both schools and kindergartens so that we can achieve this goal and that the municipalities get compensated for the costs they have when, for example, they have. involve apprentices, as this is necessary in the health and care sector, inter alia:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e995	I am pleased that we agree that it is about people, and that it is crucial for the municipal welfare services and also the offer at school that municipalities win the fight to recruit more people. What our figure, based on the KS figures, shows is that only in order to maintain today’s welfare level, without new demands for municipalities, there is a need for 50,000 more employees in municipalities in two municipal government periods. It's in kindergarten, it's in school, and there's 28,000 in health and care. That means we have to bet on a wide area. We need to ensure that more unskilled people can become skilled and that we develop the municipality as an employer. The fight against time thieves is also important, as it can free labour from doing administrative jobs to provide better services to citizens. We must also ensure that the municipalities have a good and predictable financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1004	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1007	I hope that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has a slightly higher level of precision in his daily work in the Department and Government than what he is demonstrating here today in terms of the claim that we in the Workers' Party have less money for the municipalities in the current year. I briefly recall the following: In our budget for the current year, there was 3.4 billion. NOK – NOK 3,400,000, in another way – to the municipal sector at the top of the government’s budget for the current year. In addition, we would have sent 2 billion with Norwegian municipalities. kr in tax compensation, which the government opposed. That's a lot of money, in addition to giving us a guarantee that we will cover the income loss in the current year. And then the Council of State gets to stand here and try out some technicalities to present it as if we're the worst in local economy. That's what I thought – to say it with the condoms. From another Right Representative it was said that we allegedly opposed measures against child poverty. I'm just referring very briefly to what Karin Andersen said about the political situation in this room around that question, and I just want to reject in cash any attempt to present the Workers' Party also as a sort of grievance in such a case. I hope that the rest of the debate will have a higher level of factuality, and I mean that deeply and deeply. Unemployment is increasing, and now it's at 4.2 pst. It's actually a lot in Norwegian terms. It suggests that the local economy needs to be stimulated in order to keep unemployment down, in addition to the fact that there is undoubtedly a great need to add more money to the municipal tasks, especially in schools and care. The Labour Party has high ambitions for municipal services and the fight against unemployment, and these two ambitions are both possible and not least smart to combine. That's what we want to do. The last thing we need now is that employees in our community's basic services need to get out of work because of the need for local economy, or that newly educated people in very important disciplines don't get a job. Tax haven't a dynamic effect, according to the Ministry of Finance, at least nothing that seems to have been proven so far, and contributes very little or nothing to improving the employment situation, while we know that a stimulated local economy has a significant and positive effect – and that for the whole country. At the same time, stimulating the local economy is an incentive for business, so here it is just a win-win situation. This is also strongly underlined by trade union teams, with the Landsorganisationen and the trade union at the head. Tax cuts could be used to strengthen welfare and employment in Kommune-Norway. It could have given thousands of jobs, and many unfortunate welfare skills could have been avoided. That's what's our option. Our policy is to spend the money on the big problems. During the red-green government prior to the financial crisis, the annual growth rate of municipal employment was about 10 000. During the financial crisis, growth was at an all-time high of 15 000, while during the last four years of the Stoltenberg government, the average was 6,000. But what's the situation now? It's almost zero growth, at a time when more and more people become unemployed, while more and more people need welfare services of different degrees around our country. In this municipal proposal, a real growth in the total revenue for the next year is proposed at only 1.3 pst. to 1.8 pst. – well below the average of the 10 previous years. Looking at one of the free revenues, almost half will go to cover increased demographic costs and probably about 900 million. kr for increased pension costs, so there is some money left, but there are a lot of bonds. And as Helga Pedersen was inside, we are very uncertain about what will happen to the tax revenue next year, and whether there will be any compensation. When the tax fails, as it seems so far to be the case, the sitting government also fails. This is not going to work, given the tasks that local authorities are going to do, and it has no effect, as we want, on stimulating employment. Now is the time to disappoint more ‘cool’ – the time has come to have some ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1026	I can assure Hagebakken that both the Right, Government and Government parties have great ambitions. The government has presented an offensive and forward-looking community proposition that mentions many important reforms. He refers to the need for transformation and efficiency in the public sector, and not least to solutions to current and future challenges. The financial arrangements for municipalities are also good. A growth in free revenues for 2016 will be facilitated at the level of the average over the last few years. A joint committee indicates that there is a broad focus on the important role of the municipal sector as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare society and underlines the importance of the municipalities’ position as the arena for strong local democracy. It is also worth noting that a joint committee believes that improving the efficiency, renewing and modernising the public sector is crucial to ensuring the well-being of individuals and to properly manage the community's resources. A single committee also points out that efficiency improvement, conversion and renewal are essential to ensure sufficient labour force in the key welfare areas of the years to come. This is entirely in line with what the government and government have as its main objective for the public sector in the years to come. So we have a government that renews, simplifies and improves the public sector at a pace that barely ever before has been seen. It eliminates unnecessary reporting requirements, arrests time thieves to a large extent, and implements digitisation and reorganisation at a high pace. Good examples of the day-to-day work of government for efficiency and simplification are greater emphasis on local self-government by countersigning, simplifying planning and building laws, clear language and better public sector governance and leadership. All of this is very good and forward-looking. In the municipal bill, the total income for the municipal sector is increased by between 6 and 7 billion. kr. This is going to add up to between 4.5 billion. kr and 5 brd. kr in free income. This corresponds to a real growth in free revenues of between 1.3 pst. and 1.5 pst. This is in line with average growth over the period 2008–2014. The government also proposed a further commitment to the local government sector of SEK 1.1 billion. kr in the municipal proposal. It was increased to 1.2 billion. kr of the budgetary agreements between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party in the revised national budget. This is a solid contribution to strengthening the economic space of the municipalities, and the promises are the basis for a holistic assessment of the economic situation in the municipalities, where tax failure is one moment. This is anything but the starving feeding of the municipalities, which red-green politicians used as scareshoots in the 2013 election campaign. In the case of county municipalities, a new income system has been introduced. An old income system from the 1990s has been notified by the red-green government every year in the last few years, but it went beyond notice. This is the second year of this conversion, and the government is planning to continue the loss compensation for the municipalities that are losing the most. When the Committee last examined this conversion, there were strong protests, including: from my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, because of the reduction in transfers to the county municipality over the coming years. This year, a lot of the criticism is silent. The government has responded to the Committee's comments from the management of the municipality's 2014 proposal by working on a review of boat/ferry criteria and introducing a new holiday waiver scheme for the county roads – it is in place. In the proposition, the government indicates that she will continue to work on the boat/ferry keys until the municipal proposition in 2017. It is important that this work is completed in the forthcoming municipality proposal. When it comes to the holiday settlement system for the county roads, this is a fantastic breakthrough for road construction on the coast of our country. A single committee proposes 40 years in compensation for the scheme. In a note from the Government Party and the Cooperation Party, one point is that today the state is transferring funds to county municipalities through the income system to enable them to have ferry services where it is needed to connect the road network with people and businesses that live on islands, fjords and the like. The same batches also have several important notes that strengthen the suspension arrangement. The scheme is to be priced and municipalities can see more holiday connections in joint projects in order to achieve the most co-ordinated system possible. The Government and the Cooperation Party will facilitate a formidable effort to build bridges to replace ferries, which will facilitate great growth and value creation on the shores of our country. This is district policy of the best variety, also for my homeland, Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1052	It is possible that the municipal bill is not a kiosk in the Norwegian homes, but the truth is that what we are debating here today is absolutely crucial for the welfare of most people. The working party has great ambitions. We want to have early school work and strengthen work against apostasy, we want more kindergartens filled with good quality, and we want a worthy old age where our older people get safe and well cared for. That's why the Workers' Party will spend 3 billion next year. kr more on the municipalities than on the government, because it is in the municipalities that well-being is created. The government has so far given a different priority – 12 billion. kr in tax cuts for the few. At the same time, painful cuts are made in many municipalities. The debate on local economy is basically about our everyday lives, about all the happy families who are now waiting for children for the harvest, but who do not fully know how to get up in everyday life when there is no nursery place. We see that many municipalities have to cut in kindergartens – there is not enough space. Not because local people want it like that, or because they think it's wise, but because a tight municipal structure this year combined with a huge tax failure makes many municipalities have no choice. In violation of the celebrations held on the right hand side about knowledge and teachers, it is now cut in school. The Education Association has conducted a survey showing that six out of ten school leaders now believe that the financial situation in their school has deteriorated in recent years — fewer teachers and less time to see each student and provide adapted training. I would like to commend the government's commitment to the continuing training of teachers. That's the cross-political agreement in this room. But if we're to succeed in giving all students the same opportunities to reach their full potential, we need more teachers, teachers who have time to follow up each student. Then we have to follow up the great, fine words in this room with more money for the municipalities. This debate is also about all those children and young people who do not get help when they need it. The Public Health Institute estimates that between 15 pst. and 20 pst. children and young people suffer from mental distress that affects them in their everyday lives, young people who struggle to live up to the ideals imposed on them by society. The pursuit of the perfect makes many of our children and young sick, and too many of them meet a closed door when they want to talk to a health sister at school. I'm proud that the red-green government started stepping up the school health service, but we also have to realize that we didn't get the results we wanted. A study by Sykepleien showed that only half of the money we gave went to strengthen the school health service. Today in the line change, we also hear a government council saying that there is a very strong commitment to mental health. But it's not exactly like what's going on out there. In the March KS Council study, half of the councillors say that there is no increase in school health and mental health this year either. In the Workers' Party, we learn from our own mistakes, and we therefore propose to earmark money for the school health service. I think it is a pity that the right-hand side does not learn from our faults or their own faults in that matter. After two years with a civil government, the main priority is tax cuts – that is the biggest single bet. The result is tight times in Kommune-Norge and cut off the welfare locally – not because the municipal politicians will, but because the government has prioritised tax cuts for the benefit of the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1075	In this proposition, the government continues with its good and predictable framework for the local government sector. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have arranged for municipalities to continue to develop their welfare offer to the inhabitants. This proposition shows a scheme that takes the challenges of districts seriously. The government shows that the growth of our country begins by building strong communities. At the same time, this proposition is also able to recognise the specific challenges that cities face. Population growth presents cities with challenges beyond what the districts experience. That's why we have to enable cities to meet this population growth. No matter which city you live in, and where you live in the city, you are entitled to a well - functioning service and welfare service. In cities there must be an active business that creates jobs, but it must also be possible to create its own job. Our job is to facilitate this, and we take that job seriously – in the budget by budget and by proposition by proposition. The government will develop a policy on urban and district competitiveness. The development of urban regions of all sizes is crucial for the future economic development of Norway, and urban/rural interaction is central to exploiting the potential for economic growth across the region. And then I remember the department's development program over two phases, where phase 1 is now over. There are 33 urban regions with a total of 187 municipalities established and developed cooperation. In Phase 2, participants shall develop and concreteise these actions and strategies, and the Ministry will have a potential of up to 91,5 million. kr to Phase 2 for the period 2015-2017. The government proposes that municipalities retain a local share of corporate tax from 2017, an estimated SEK 2.9 billion. kr. The new model allows cities to obtain additional income by motivating growth, value creation and business development. In 2015, the growth grant to the municipalities was increased and several municipalities joined the scheme. The government will continue this investment in growth municipalities in 2016. What does this tell you? Finally, we have a government that actually takes the cities seriously. But what do I hear from the red-green politicians today? Well, the same thing that we heard before the election, right after the election and in the months that followed, and it can be summed up with two points. One is black paint of our policies in the absence of our own policies. When we explain what our policy is, the Council of State is told that he is a freak. And the representative Hagebakken wants a deep and heartfelt real debate. I would ask the representative to go deep and deep in himself and think through which characteristics he distributes about others. The second point that comes from the red-greens at any time is irresponsible use of money. The question that deserves an honest answer is: What is the difference between the local budgets of the Right Party and the Red Green Party? The growth in municipalities' revenues for 2016 is at the level of the average for recent years, but this is about how we distribute the money. It's about the money being primarily free income. That's where the big difference lies – it gives more room for local action. And at a time when Norway needs to change, it is we who provide growth grants, cut in wealth taxes, differentiated employer fees and strong investment in infrastructure. These are examples of how we build strong communities. And what does the Workers' Party deliver? Well, they're choosing to increase the tax by 10 billion. kr in its alternative budget. And just as in the debate on the mission message, I'm once again not very surprised that the Central Party and SV have the following philosophy in this kind of debate: Let's wait to see what the government comes with, and then we just have a little bit of over. But what started with surprising me in the last few months, and that went over to a disappointment, but which is now really scaring me first, is that the Workers' Party has simply deleted the honorary words'responsible economic policy' from its vocabulary. Instead, it has been replaced by a new word and it is ‘surcharge’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1094	I notice that the Council of State is trying – in a way – to start a Sweden round on the Municipal Economy of the Workers Party, and he does so in the absence of his own and better proposals. I can only – I had almost said – comfort everyone that here the Council of State is being looked through – not only here in the hall, he is also being screened out where it really applies: in the municipalities. I'm just saying that Minister Sanner is not the best friend in the municipality, so he has other friends he wants to take better care of. A large number of rapporteurs, municipal councillors and councillors have been waiting for the government's municipal plans for 2016, after hearing a lot of good comments for months on how well the municipalities would be taken care of when the government made the proposal for the 2016 economy. There should be a commitment to promote care for the elderly, schooling and health care – that was not the way it was. They were disappointed, most of the municipal representatives. The bet that the government announced, it didn't come. Some of us who have been so lucky to have been involved in local politics before, we remember the last Right put in position. Then it was Erna Solberg who was the municipal minister. There was not much bet on the municipalities as a welfare producer at the time either. That's the way Right is predictable, we're going to have to be happy about that. And now, with the Progress Party at its side, they continue to prioritise strong tax cuts to Norway's richest rather than the municipal economy. They even send large parts of the tax bill to the inhabitants of Kommune-Norway. We see what those priorities lead to. So now it's cut in most municipalities. They report cuts in school, cut in care, cut in prevention work among children and young people. In addition to these very narrow frameworks to which the municipalities have now been exposed by the government, the government will introduce the corporate tax. Based on the estimates that have been made, it seems that there are forty municipalities in Norway that will benefit from such a conversion of corporate tax, and the rest of the municipalities will be involved in and pay. It has to be redeployed. It has been said from this pulpit that it was not that much. I think it's up to 3 billion. kr, as the government itself has mentioned, is quite a lot of money. There's a lot of money for the municipalities. It's an unfair system as far as it's possible to see, but it's a clever plan to say that the more private pay you have in your own municipality, the more tax revenue you'll get. It's also part of the government's privatisation reform, as you can see. The working party has some answers other than the government. I understand that the government and the government representatives do not like our proposals, but we have other proposals than the government on how to take care of the municipalities, the inhabitants, especially the youngest and the oldest. Then it's about having to have an income system for the municipalities that gives the possibility of equivalent services across the country. We need to ensure fairness in cohesion so that our local people and employees in the municipalities actually have a real opportunity to provide a good welfare offer in their own municipality. A three-billion-dollar reinforcement. kr more to the municipalities for 2016, it is not small. It would provide great opportunities for our local and regional elected representatives. At that time, there could be discussion of areas of interest and not areas of cutbacks, as is now the case in most of the municipalities. Then we talk about the fact that the local government could actually discuss a better school, more teachers, strengthening school health services, raising for the profession. We are talking about new kindergartens, reintroduction of school fruit – a lot could be done for this money. All in all, the Workers' Party also has ambitious expectations for the municipalities, just as the government has. The difference is that with the Workers' Party's proposal, the municipalities would have a much better economic starting point to actually meet the expectations that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1110	This is an interesting debate. It sounds as if the representatives of the Workers' Party in particular are going on autopilot. But the representative Helga Pedersen initially said something that was right, and that I can agree with, and that is that the choices we are making now will be decisive. Maybe we should think about that every day, because that's all the choices made in this room. But after that, I think the debate has been marked by the fact that we have forgotten the challenges that Norway is actually facing, and that it is all about giving money. Jan Tore Sanner said that billions are not enough; we must also meet and stimulate people. And that's the challenge Norway is facing. It sounds like the red-green, especially the Workers' Party, haven't come to realize that Norway is in a phase where we actually have to change, from a time when we were chasing oil revenues, to that engine starting to cough a little and we have to find other ways of feeding that will carry us into a, hopefully, good future. Now, in many debates, I have called for a degree of humility in relation to the challenge you didn't even face, but as our government is now meeting too fully, and as you deal with it in an admirable and good way. It is a very active industrial policy pursued by the government through the main priorities of the budget. Incentives are given through tax cuts, in particular towards equity, and incentives are given to transport – record appropriations for transport – which the red-greens did not manage, they had completely different framework conditions, and they go in for school and R & D. All of this is absolutely central to business when it comes to the overall. And of course, the municipalities are the building blocks in Norway, both in terms of welfare and in terms of value creation. I believe that incentives work. There's a division in this hall, obviously. I agree with the Council of State that it is amazing that the Central Party, with its basic thinking, does not also understand that incentives work. Now, signaling that a small proportion, a moderate proportion, of the corporate tax payable to municipalities that are able to create new growth and jobs – well, notice based on the creation of new jobs back to the municipalities – I think it's an incentive that works. If the municipalities are not concerned with value creation, how are we going to get to this conversion? I see that arguments are used such as that it will only favour the nutrient-rich municipalities and not the weak ones. I think the opposite. I think the underprivileged municipalities are the ones that really need this kind of incentive, and I'm sure I'll also put more into the harness to create the future business that we all depend on. Here we need to join forces, the municipalities and the state together. The tax failure to the municipalities is, of course, very serious, but it is a sign of what conversion Norway is actually facing. The top quote on the E24 just before I went into the hall was that the tax failure of the state also became great, precisely because the activity and the oil price have fallen as it has. And we can't avoid moving the municipalities into the conversion we're actually going into. Finally, when Tore Hagebakken says that tax changes do not have a ‘dynamic effect’, it is simply deaf. The fact that the Ministry does not have models to calculate the dynamic effects is quite different, but looks at evaluations made by the tax reforms and, in particular, at the 1992 tax reform, the tax system has enormous dynamic effects. So at least we get to bring the debate down to the plane where it's going to be. The thing about corporate tax, I think, is a very good signal. It is, as the Council of State also said, a moderate change, so the municipalities are not going to fly their legs off to privatize and expose everything the opposition focuses on, but they are going to focus more on value creation, and it needs Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1123	I am proud that we in the Workers' Party are strengthening the municipalities with half a billion to prevent children and young people. Prevention among children and young people is one of the most important health investments we as a society can make. The Public Health Institute estimates that about one fifth of children and young people have mental disorders that affect them in their everyday lives. At the same time, we know that mental disorders can be prevented by early intervention. Taking care of things early and giving proper treatment for mental symptoms, we can prevent serious illness and give a better daily life to those who are struggling. Here the school health service plays a very important role. The Labour Party strengthens the school health service by 200 million. kr in earmarked products. We choose to label them because our children and young people deserve a better schooling service. It is a little scary to see that only half of the extra funding for the school health service in 2014 went to the school health service. It's like if my partner had sent me out to buy food for NOK 200 and I had spent NOK 100 on food for us people and NOK 100 on food for the cats, it would have been very nice of me to think about the cats, but there was food for us grown-up people. It's not specified what kind of food it is, but it's nice of me to do it. It's a little bit the same in the school health service. Municipalities spend money on good things, but they're meant for school health, and then they have to be used for it. That's why the Workers' Party chooses earmarks, so that our children and young people get what they deserve. The working party also chooses to bet on one hour of physical activity in school every single day. Physical activity fosters good health and a better quality of life. We see clear links between physical activity at an early age and good adult health. We are also required to bet early. Over the years, we have had many pilot projects on physical activity in school. They say the same thing: it's possible and it works. We have good arrangements. Through cooperation between the voluntary sector and the schools, we in the Workers' Party are ready to introduce one hour of physical activity in school every day. We don't need any more pilot projects, we need action. With all the energy you finally get out of with an hour of physical activity, it could also be fun with a little bit of energy in everyday life. I have met many students who are disappointed that the government has chosen to cut the school fruit. And I understand them very well, because the fruit and green offer in school was popular among many – a good, healthy and effective way to get your blood sugar up when it starts to fall. There are three things I choose to point out, when I look back at my own school day, which is contributing to my being able to perform well. The first was good teachers. There is no doubt about how important teachers are in school. But I have to admit that as one who liked to sleep maybe a bit extremely long in the morning, the school's offer of lunch was probably as important as what the teachers actually were. Being able to lubricate me a bread slice and eat a little in the minutes I had left from the bus came to school and to the school started, made me have some extra energy and that it was much easier to follow in school hours. A school meal is not just a nutritional measure — it is also a learning action. Some people want to make a choice — learning or nutrition. The truth is, there's no contradiction. One fosters the other. The third thing was physical activity – half an hour every day, with many choices: ball games, walking and a number of other offers, in cooperation with the local sports team. I wish I could also bring out the school health service here as an important reason that I managed through high school, but it had required that we had a health sister present for more than 4 hours a week to meet the needs of all the 270 students at my school. We are all responsible for our own health. But society is responsible for everyone's health. With the proposals of the Labour Party, we ensure better health for our children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1149	The government has announced that they will reintroduce parts of the corporate tax. It's a system that's still relatively unclear. We have tried through some questions to clarify parts of it, but I respect that you have to come back to it. But we've got a snapshot. That snapshot isn't very surprising. It is in line with the policy pursued by the Right in all those years, which is about redistribution between municipalities. The main reason for wanting to reintroduce this is linked to an idea that our elected representatives in the municipalities need an incentive to concentrate on facilitating more jobs in their municipality. In my constituency, we have the municipality of Meløy. It's a municipality that has more than 6,000 inhabitants. They have a business that is closely linked to industry. A few years ago, one of the big companies – not a corner stone company, but a big business – went bankrupt. It was REC. It immediately gave an unemployment rate of 20 pst. in this municipality. The result, based on the snapshot the department has calculated for us, shows that this municipality will be penalised financially. So they're going to lose tax revenue with the government's new transfer. They're being punished because they got a bankruptcy, a relationship the municipality could have difficult to deal with. Then the question is, is this the right medicine? Is that how we strengthen the ability of municipalities – those municipalities that have the biggest challenges in creating new jobs? The second question, about something that I have never understood, and to which the Right People do not answer, is: Do you have local politicians in the Right who do not work for more local jobs? I don't know what it's like in the Right, but at least I know that when I travel around the country and meet our elected people, this is one of the most important things they care about: how do we create more jobs as a basis for growth and well-being for the inhabitants of our municipality? There's no economic incentive to be concerned about this. This is absolutely fundamental. What municipalities need is not penal measures when business is in poor condition. Then they need economic stimulus, and they need room for action in order to be able to work on economic development. Then the regional development funds that the government has cut need to be cut. They then need the instrument of Innovation Norway and an active industrial policy, to which the government is critical. And then they need the means of conversion – that Meløy got – from the big community to get over a tough knuckle. Let me just remind you that at the hearing with the Municipal Committee, KS, the local authority's own organisation, claimed that there is no evidence whatsoever that this is an incentive that will work. They're very critical of it. Nevertheless, the government continues its ideological crusades and has to force it through. The second is related to the distribution effect. The reversed Robin Hood principle also applies to municipal tax revenue. One shall take from those who have the least and who have the worst assumptions. Tax revenue in the municipal sector, which is the main source of income, varies between 50 pst. of the average and up to 350 pst. So you have to redeploy, from those who have the least, to those who have the most – just like you do in personal taxation and related to the issue of property taxes. That's the wrong policy. We have another option, which is to give all municipalities equal opportunities to drive business development. So some comments on what has been said in the debate. The representative Lødemel claimed that the criticism of the effects of changes in the income system has been silenced. It's possible it's the experience of the Right, but why does Right experience it? Is it because there's been more money for the counties? No, it doesn't, the government hasn't done anything about this. Has the government done anything about the ferry and boat routes and the criteria of the income system? No, they said they would do it in the municipal bill, they didn't – they have notified a new investigation. The reason why this has not been discovered in the Right is perhaps that the states have discovered that they have a government that does not listen to the ear, which is not on that channel, which is not concerned with the county authorities' possibilities. Then the representative was Kapur into the black paint of Right's policy, which fell him heavily to the chest. Black may have become a suitable color for the policy of the Right when we see how deep blue the policy has actually become. But maybe it's too unsound that we paint it black -- we're going to operate with deep blue paint. The point is, we have an alternative. We have another alternative, where we have more money for the municipalities, not because it's a goal in itself, but because it's the most important way to cope with the transformations that the municipalities are also going to be involved in. You don't do that by forcing them, it does you by giving them opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1172	‘The municipalities are the foundations of the Norwegian welfare society.’ This is how the government initiates the municipal proposal for 2016. This is a statement that the Workers' Party is also standing behind. But building a good foundation for well-being requires more than words, it needs another foundation. It is the employees in kindergartens, in schools, and in care and care that provide well-being among people. They do it in municipal and county buildings, which require a lot more than just the foundation wall for it to be well-being. In order to create this well-being, government and growth must follow up with a secure economic framework. It requires tough priorities. The Workers' Party knows that. In order for teachers to have time to be teachers, there has to be enough teachers in classrooms, and more people have to be hired for a growing population. In order for the care of the elderly to provide the necessary safety, professionals must have time to care for the individual. That's why we increased the revenues of municipalities by 70 billion. In practice, from 2005 to 2013, which provided 24 000 more annual work in the provision of care by municipalities — concrete results, which provide better well-being for grandmother and grandfather and for those who need it the most. Now we see another reality. We have a government that downgrades a solid municipal economy, because the main investment is huge cuts in the wealth tax. The finance minister wants both, but most people know that the money can only be used once. The government’s tax cuts are therefore a poor response to the challenges now facing Norway. On the first side of the Evening Post today, we see one result, namely that municipalities around the country have to increase property taxes to cover these important tasks. We're a growing country. We're getting older. We need to upgrade the infrastructure in our cities. We will meet major technological changes and provide work for all – all of this within the framework required by the climate. None of these challenges are solved with this medicine. Once again, we have received a letter from the Ministry of Finance, confirming that there is no ‘a basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax changes’. So the tax havens aren't documented as growth-promoting. They do not function as prescribed by the Right Party and the Advance Party. The other side of this fiscal policy is well known. Although the Minister of Finance says both parts, I don't think we or the government parties need evidence to understand that tax cuts result in less money left for just well-being and action in the municipalities. A weak municipal structure for 2015 will now be followed by a weak municipal structure for 2016. It will have consequences. The majority of principals and principals now report poorer economics. They have fewer resources to follow up the kids at school. In several places it was cut in the care of the elderly. Evolution goes the opposite way of what we want. So the ground wall is about to crack. In this there is an alternative, an alternative use of the freedom of action that the economy gives us. For the coming year, the Workers' Party is betting in its alternative three-billion-billion-dollar scheme. more at school, care for the elderly and the other important welfare services in relation to the government. Within our alternative budget, we propose to spend 0.5 billion. health prevention, which benefits society. It's an investment for good income in the future. There is a targeted effort on several health sisters in school, more physical activity and reintroduction of fruit and vegetables. We suggest that the dementes be offered day-to-day activities – follow-up of promises that are overtime to follow up. We want to make sure that all students get the help and organization they need to be able to read, write and calculate before they leave the 2nd grade. We are behind Stortingen's unanimous commitment to continuing education, but there is also a need for more teachers, not fewer. That's why we're proposing 100 million. kr for a separate reading, writing and calculation lift. We will extend the right to babysitting to all children born before 31 December. Kindergartens contribute to equality between women and men and make a solid contribution to integration. With the child in kindergarten, young children’s parents can be sure that the child is doing well, while parents can be out in productive work. Good municipal welfare is also an investment in Norwegian business. That I can be at work and feel confident that my children are doing well, whether they are in kindergarten or at school, and that my parents get good care from employees who have time to see their needs, is crucial for how well I can do during a working day, for how productive I can be. This is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party prioritises a good local economy very high. We have a different priority than the government, and until the fall people have an excellent opportunity to say clearly what they think about the government's tight budgets and their overall priorities. We're going to be crystal clear on what the Workers' Party is prioritizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1198	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1201	Politics is about prioritizing. It's about choosing in which direction our society is going. That's what the Right and Advance Party is doing in this proposition. They make choices that testify to a priority of favoring large Eastern municipalities for districts, and how tax cuts for those who have the most of them are given priority over a good service offer for all of us. The Labour Party wants to facilitate well-being throughout the country. When the government last year changed the income model of the county municipalities, Nordland, North Norway and the coastal communities were the hardest hit. This new income system, which continues this year, moves funds from north and coast to south and east — from districts to popular cities. When no changes to the income system are proposed for neither Nordland nor North Norway, we see that the government is keeping the same price. The dramatic redistribution leads to harsh cuts and cuts in welfare services. The result will be less funding for both kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. What the government provides will in the long run create big differences – a development in the wrong direction. ‘The Communities are the foundations of the Norwegian welfare society’ proclaims the government as the first sentence in the municipal proposition. They're now tearing down that base wall in North Norway. Almost all the municipalities in the Nordic countries will be adversely affected by the redistribution of government. To meet the future, we need to bet on both city and country. It is about resources such as fish, agriculture and energy, which are scattered throughout the country. It's about people who lose their jobs, need health care or have children to have children's playgrounds. In order for municipalities and counties to meet the challenges they face and seize the opportunities offered, they must also have financial space for action. That's why we can't put them in a situation where they have to cut the welfare offer. Because it's about how we're going to spend the big money. The Labour Party wants to use them to invest in the future — in kindergarten, in school and in care for the elderly. A strong and predictable local economy is the basis for this. In this way, we will facilitate growth throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1212	The municipality proposal for 2016 outlines a good financial framework for the municipal sector until next year, as well as a new and improved system of return of corporation tax to municipalities. The municipalities are, as you know, the first line in local communities across the country. They have a significant role to play in providing welfare services to their citizens and responsibilities for many of the major tasks of society. Therefore, the government promoted a strong and predictable financial arrangement for 2016. The total income of the local government sector will increase by between 6 and 7 billion. kr, of which the growth in free income will be between 4,5 and 5 billion. kr. The government thus proposes that municipalities and county councils can strengthen their services to the inhabitants in 2016. What really matters to the municipalities is how much they have for free income after the statutory tasks are covered, that is, the space for action. KS has calculated that the real room for action of the municipalities is larger during the current government and during the government period of the Right-Fremskritspart-government than in the previous three years with red-green government. This means that the Workers' Party's argument about weak municipal structures falls into ruins. One of the biggest changes from the past to the present government is, however, about the prioritisation of major cities. Where the red-green failed, this government chooses to bet. Major cities are growing most, and there are a number of challenges to deploying infrastructure quickly enough. Big cities need drags to deal with the rapidly growing population, and government delivers. This government has ensured an update of the cost keys for the county councils, which resulted in Oslo receiving more than 600 million. kr more than previous years. The capital, which receives a significant proportion of the expected population growth, will benefit in these days from the additional resources provided by that government and will be able to provide an equivalent offer in line with other municipalities in that country. I am glad that with the new government, there has also been a new view of the largest cities. Now we have a government that is betting on the big cities rather than ignoring them, and after many years we've got a government that's in charge of the capital rather than looking at the capital as its greatest enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1223	The Labour Party will give priority to a strong and predictable local economy over tax cuts. I believe that today's government is not the friend of the municipalities. They are more concerned with tax cuts for those who have the most from before than by strengthening the welfare of people most. A good community economy is the prerequisite for getting good welfare for everyone, whether in school, kindergarten, care, culture or road. As a municipal politician and rapporteur for many years, I have seen the difference between the parties that want to build well-being and those who want to force structural change through economic intervention. The municipalities did not receive compensation for the tax failure in 2014, and so far it does not appear that they will be compensated for it in 2015. This means less money for well-being. And then we have the uncertainty about what we are discussing today: what does the government think about the tax failure that can occur in 2016? Municipalities must live with that uncertainty. And then you're going to add the corporate tax and redeploy the entire $2.9 billion. kr off the pot. Who's gonna be the loser? Well, the municipalities that wear off already. In the Nordic region, most of the municipalities will lose on such redistribution. There will also be less well-being in these municipalities. So a little bit about the county councils. Here the government has not been able to deliver what they said they were going to do last year, and it was doing something about the cost keys that turned out unfortunate in relation to boat and ferry operations, not least for Nordland. They have now had one year to do something about it, and what they come back to the Storting and say is that they have to have another year, because this is difficult. It's not hard. Nordland will actually lose 280 million. kr per year when this turns out to be too full. Then everyone understands that this is going to be a huge challenge in order to maintain today's offer. Almost 80 pst. by the public road network is built, owned and operated by the counties. They are also responsible for ferry and public transport. A large part of the transport offer is to the county councils, and when the government boasts that they are betting on road maintenance, at least the county roads and municipal roads do not apply. There is little help in increasing the national road allocations, and at the same time cutting the appropriations to counties and municipalities. There won't be any better weights altogether of that. Nordland states have to bring down investments on roads, tunnels, ferries and bridges. They already have a margin of 7.8 billion. kr, and this will increase. Therefore, the introduction of the new cost keys should be postponed, as we proposed. Therefore, the tax failure should be compensated both in 2014 and 2015, and it should be guaranteed for 2016. But what you're doing instead is actually introducing a new corporate tax model that makes it even worse for these municipalities. This is a bad policy of redistribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1236	The community proposition gives a lot of good statistics. On page 121 we find numbers of kindergartens. From 2009 to 2013, the number of kindergartens increased by 17 100, while in 2013–2014 there was a decrease of 800. While the number of nursery places has decreased, figures from the Education Directorate show that 8 334 children were in line at the end of 2014. The cash support was to reduce the need for nursery places, but it does not. On the contrary, cash support payments are reduced by over 100 million. kr in the revised national budget. So the government's new ideas have made fewer children fit into kindergarten. When the municipalities are starving and transfers to kindergartens are neither earmarked nor granted to parents rights to kindergartens, there is a great chance that children’s garden money will be used for anything else. An important part of the community structure of the Workers' Party is to strengthen and develop the childcare facility. We will extend the right to babysitting to all children born before 31 December. This will require about 6,500 new kindergartens. That's what we want to finance using the government proposal of 400 million. kr for so-called flexible recording. In addition, we propose to allocate an additional 250 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. Kindergartens are the largest welfare effort in the Community in recent years. V has implemented a large-scale development, both municipal and private, combined with requirements for low parental pay. However, the strong growth has been halted by the Right Party Government. Thousands of families with children want kindergarten without having it. In addition, kindergartens are becoming more expensive for most families. From 1 May, the price of kindergartens increased by 100 kroner a month. In this way, it helps little to boast that children’s families receive tax relief when they are more than eaten by increased nursery prices. A calculation example, based on SSB figures, shows that a two-child family where both parents make around 400,000 dollars, receives a tax bill of 954 dollars a year, while the cost of kindergarten increases much more. Even with 20 pst. sibling moderation costs the nursery for a two-child family NOK 1 260 more per year after 1 May. This is going in the wrong direction. The working party wants a different course. We want to provide good babysitting facilities in a sufficient number and at an affordable price. And we'll make sure there's enough caring employees to give kids a real deal when their parents are at work. It's good for the kids, it's good for the parents, and it's good for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1251	This proposition suggests that municipalities receive a growth in free income that allows them to further develop their welfare services to the population. It has been interesting to hear the posts here today, it seems as if it has come as a surprise to the Workers' Party and the Centre that municipalities are making thorough priorities in what they spend their money for, and that they have to make cuts. This is no new situation – they did during the eight years of red-green rule. At that time, I myself was a municipal and county politician, and I was involved in the implementation of large budget cuts. When we see the challenges in the labour market today and that large companies such as Statoil and others need to make substantial manning cuts, it is important that we, as central politicians, make the best possible way to create new jobs and that municipalities get incentives to facilitate new jobs. In Norway, we also have many opportunities for new jobs in the future, both in agriculture, mineral industry, agriculture and oil and gas. This proposition stipulates that municipalities – regardless of their current economic situation – will receive an additional incentive when municipalities retain a share of the corporate tax on new jobs created. This is an important initiative for municipalities to add both the right area and not least become more entrepreneurial municipalities. Real medicine for business is not then – as I record that Ap wants – to tax it further. In Northern Ireland, we have many municipalities with large areas, but few inhabitants. Some of these municipalities have enough challenges to have enough muscles to become an attractive partner and to facilitate business, and not least to be the attractive employer that employees today expect both in terms of the working environment and development opportunities. That is why I look forward to the initiatives on bundling processes that have been launched around the country, including in my country. When asked what is the biggest challenge for efficient operation, businesses are told that the transport challenge is the biggest. Then the increase shown by the government parties and the cooperating party will be of great importance when appropriations for the county roads are increased by 1.2 billion. kr. In addition, there will be an important incentive, including for my county, Northern Ireland, when the government makes contributions to holiday relief funds, which means that county councils that replace or shorten a ferry link with a bridge or tunnel are allowed to retain the funds that the ferries trigger in the income system for up to 40 years after the ferry link is closed. – To put it that way: we have many such distances to take off in Northernland. I can mention the base cities Brønnøysund and Sandnessjøen, which it takes almost 3 hours to travel between – a distance of approx. Seven miles. This is an area that should be much more closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1266	Then there's Liv Signe Navarsette, then Kent Gudmundsen. – No, I'm sorry, it's Martin Henriksen first, then Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1272	I have rightly cut myself, President, but still! It is when we deal with the budget and the municipal bill that words are to be translated into action and promises into concrete priorities. I think that many voters thought that there was knowledge that was going to be the big budget winner with the Right in government, but the really big bet is neither transportation, climate nor school – it's tax cuts. That's what we're looking at in the budget. This government spends a hundred times more on tax cuts than the whole increase in initial training. In this year’s State Budget – Right and Advance Party’s first autonomous budget, where they set a new Norwegian record in the use of oil money – primary and secondary schools came about to zero. One area of the knowledge budget increased: continuing training for teachers; one initiative for the whole of the Stortinget stands together. If you take out one of these bets, you're going to have a total cut in initial training. That is a clear priority. The richest are bet area number one. At the same time, we know that the school sector is affected by tax failures and weak growth in the municipal sector. Before Christmas we could read that more councillors around the country then had to reduce the teacher's density, i.e. increase the number of students per teacher. It was found in a study by KS, and the director of interest policy in KS, Helge Eide, said that some municipalities say that this is approaching the limit of what they think is responsible. In a survey from Response's Analysis from in the spring, 41 pst said. by Norwegian and school principals that they currently have classes and groups that are permanently organised with more than 28 students. A sluggish community economy goes beyond the school and leads to a growing need for Norwegian classrooms. When the Workers' Party wants to spend 3 billion kr more on the municipalities, it gives room for action to bet in school. The working party will first have more teachers in the school, but we will also put in our own bets for early work – a reading, writing and math lift. We want to raise the professions, so we are proposing a solid increase in the apprenticeship grant with a separate equipment spot to update the equipment in our vocational schools. The main school politicians in Norway are not in the national assembly, but in local government and county councils. Therefore, we will give priority to the municipalities and county councils so that they have room to bet on school. We believe that this is what should be the really big priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1287	A little while ago, we heard the representative Keshvari boasting that the government is seeing the big cities. That's good. But they have definitely turned their backs on the districts of this country. In Sogn and Fjordane, we have indeed noticed the negative consequences of a Right-front party government that is actively supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left. Yes, it has been so now in Sogn and Fjordane that a lift flag when one is allowed to keep services that one has had for decades, a cheer for keeping jobs in the district office in Vågsøy, a cheer for keeping the research station at Furuneset. There's nothing new, it's not any strength – but fortunately we kept it, in all kindness, by today's government. The income system is a separate chapter, because it affects the everyday life of people in such a significant way. It is a great economic redistribution in the disfavor of the districts that lies in the government here has done. One has increased the emphasis on population and historical figures and reduced the emphasis on scattered bustetage. One has not prepared which one of my opinions is equivalent. And as the system is now, it's a loss compensation that's too small, which is being used as a remedy. It is the Council of State that is responsible for developing a good system. As it is now, there is a system of great lack of connection to the boat and ferry, which strikes out in the strong disfavor of coastal states in this country. The government has to do something about that. In the past, we had a transitional arrangement that, at least, prevented one from getting the rough and the big case if there were redistributions. It doesn't have a keep. Today there are 50–60 groups in Sogn and Fjordane who work with cuttings in all fields – in schools, on dental health, on culture, on transportation, who get rough cuts – in all fields. The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, said in his post that the sound was silent, that the criticism of the effect of the income system was silent. I don't know if there's anything wrong with it, or maybe he should have been present at the parish in Sogn and Fjordane, which is today. Then I think he wanted to get a slightly different impression of it. Because there's a lot of debate going on about the missing escalation of the loss compensation, which would make it possible for you to keep at least some more of today's services in Sogn and Fjordane. Then there would be a little more to flag for. There's nothing new, it's not a escalation, it's not a reinforcement, but maybe one had kept a little bit more of what you have today, and got it developed further. So I want to encourage the government to take some trips to Northland, to Sogn and Fjordane, to Hedmark, to District County. It's nice to see the big cities, but it also carries people outside the big cities. It should continue to do so, and it is nice if this government also gradually opens its eyes and tries to see them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1304	We're going to meet an exciting time, but also a demanding one. The need to invest in Norwegian competitiveness in order to ensure a sustainable welfare society will be crucial. It is regrettable to see how historically good economic times during the red-greens were used to equip Norway for a stronger international competition, and to address the dichotomy we have had in the Norwegian economy. Only about two out of ten oil crowns went to invest in Norwegian competitiveness at that time. Luckily, we now have a government that takes the necessary steps, and that is investing in research, which further educates three times as many thousands of teachers each year, who take action for early work in primary school, which takes action for increased quality in kindergartens, which invests in infrastructure and for the first time reduces maintenance allowance, which reduces Norwegian special taxes, which increases Norwegian competitiveness and contributes to the strength of Norwegian business and not least contributes to a health and care sector that places the patient in the centre, because it is also important for the Norwegian welfare state. And finally, a good health and care service is important. Fortunately, we live longer and get even older, but this also challenges the ability of municipalities to provide good services in the future. Then it is reassuring that the municipal minister is doing well with a historical community reform. Because it's worrying when Tromsø has 6.6 professionals per pensioner, while Ibestad, for example, has 2.1 per pensioner, and when it's 42 pst. several pensioners in the municipality of Karlsøy in 2040 outside Tromsø, and the proportion of working age is so low that it challenges the public service and society as a whole. Then we have some challenges. And then it's no use, as under the red-greens, to ask the county to require the municipalities that want to increase the room for action, only to increase the property tax in order to also be able to distribute discretionary funds. No, such challenges require system intervention to meet the future in a good way. Public service requirements and developments will only increase. In this way, it is very gratifying that the government now also provides a ferry relief system for the county roads. This creates opportunities for good social development in, for example, Karlsøy municipality, which has been waiting for the Langsund link. There is little doubt that the reforms and political grips that the government is now taking towards the municipality of Norway will help build good welfare services, equip Norway for the future and strengthen our ability to adapt. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we help to secure the opportunities of municipalities to be for the inhabitants, and our solutions and ideas will make Norway better equipped to meet a future where we need more financial engines, and where we use our tax money smarter, so that we can continue to be sure that our welfare systems can also be strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1319	Norway was forced to liquidate the differentiated employer’s fee scheme on 1 January 2004, but the Stoltenberg government was able to reintroduce the scheme from 1 January 2007. Differentiating employers’ fees means that employers pay different rates in different places in the country, depending on population density and some other objective factors. My concern is that today's government does not seem to prioritise the task of continuing reduced rates and compensation for Bodø and Tromsø. Bodø and Tromsø are special in North Norway, at a higher rate than the rest of the country, although both cities are located in the instrument area. The normal rate for the employer’s fee in Norway is 14.1 p.m., while the rate for Northern Norway in general is 5.1 p.m. or lower. For Bodø and Tromsø's part, the rate is 7.9 pst. This difference is also the basis for the compensation scheme. The reason why Bodø and Tromsø have received a bet between the person in the instrument area and the ordinary rate is that, on the one hand, these cities do not have the same challenges as the rest of District Norway, while on the other hand they do not get a full bet, since they are regional drivers of development and value creation. However, as the employment situation now develops for the private sector in Bodø and Tromsø, with stagnation and partly negative developments, the focus on the role of these cities needs to be maintained. The compensation scheme for paid employers’ contributions has contributed to positive development over a number of years. I would particularly like to point out large investments in knowledge institutions and infrastructure, funds that are available in close cooperation with industry and the chosen level. These are investments that have benefited the regions, highlighting the importance of these two cities for the rest of the country. The regionally elected level also has a special significance in North Norway, since they represent competences and weights that are important in a part of the country with scattered settlements and many small municipalities. In my view, these two cities, together with the county councils in North Norway, have unique roles. They represent driving forces and competences that represent a significant weight, and they are resources for further development and growth. If we are to take the employment situation seriously, the two cities must have framework conditions to ensure that they can perform their roles as drivers of positive population development and value creation in the north. I would therefore like to stress the importance of maintaining the system of compensation for a differentiated employer’s fee in the future and of transferring the compensation to the respective county municipalities. Responsibility for the continuation and security of the system now rests on the Right and the Advance Party of the Government. It worries me. That is why, in conclusion, I would like to say what Mr Gudmundsen said in the introduction: 'We are going to have an exciting meeting'.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1338	From 1 July 2014, 31 new municipalities joined the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. This was presented as a great novelty from the government, although the conversion also resulted in important sectors such as transport being excluded from the scheme. In my home state, the municipality of the West was one of those who looked forward to positive effects of the conversion, but that was not the case. The proceeds of the fees charged to the 31 municipalities were estimated at 267 million. kr. But the government didn't want it to be as well, because in the municipal proposition it's called: ‘Different employer’s fee is a scheme aimed at the business sector in the districts and is intended to facilitate employment growth throughout the country. The scheme shall be neutral for the municipal sector.’» The 31 municipalities that received a fee were therefore deducted for 2015 from the corresponding amount in the calculation of the framework fee. Some even doubled, because the compensation they had received for previous changes in the differentiated employer fee was withdrawn. Some municipalities, therefore, were drawn from the department as well as from the county. These municipalities received a reduction in their income. In the municipal bill this year, the government is doing a partial retreat. Now the government wants a gradual degression over five years of the extraction from the framework. This cannot be understood in any other way than that the government here acknowledges errors with these 31 municipalities. I think there is reason to be strongly critical of the uncertainty the government has created for the municipalities concerned. The municipalities thought they would get a tax return of 267 million. kr, but felt that they had lost everything – some of them more. There is no reason why the unfair move they were subjected to last year should be corrected over five years. The Central Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, has therefore put forward a proposal asking the Government to correct the move to these 31 municipalities in the 2016 state budget. This proposal should be given a number if we are to deal with the relevant municipalities correctly. The centre party has included compensation in our 2016 proposal for a framework. So the second one, and perhaps the most important part of it, remains, which is also taken up in the proposal from us and SV. The effect of differentiated employer charges is not included in the income system for municipalities. The biggest concern is that the reduction in the cost of labour is a district policy tool that benefits both business and the public sector. This commitment has not been supported by the Ministry's formulation that it should be neutral for the municipal sector. The government is well aware that the framework of the 31 municipalities was exposed last year was groundless. Now it remains that the government acknowledges that both private and municipal businesses should benefit from the effects of a differentiated employer’s fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1356	The municipal economy is important for everyone in Norway. The municipalities produce the well-being debated in this room. A good school, healthcare, care for the elderly and other welfare services require robust government funding. There is no case for the municipal economy based on the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration. Many contributions have been made earlier in the debate today, both in terms of transfers and in terms of the lack of full compensation for the tax failure of municipalities. The municipalities are struggling in Norway. A clear proof of this is that we have received 48 new municipalities that have introduced property taxes while we have had the Right Party and the Advance Party in government, despite the fact that the Progress Party opted for the removal of property taxes – a new example of the parties running from their tax promises and their election promises. The government's proposal for the introduction of municipal property taxes will redeploy $2.9 billion. kr. This is based on salary growth in enterprises and rewards municipalities working with industrial development. When we look at which municipalities win and lose on this, only 41 of the country's 428 municipalities come out in plus this redistribution of corporate tax. 386 municipalities lose and get a tighter economy. And it's not like there's only 41 municipalities in Norway working with business development. I'm going to take the result of a change in company tax in my own state, Finnmark. All the municipalities lose, minus one. Not even Hammerfest with its plant on Melkøya or the growth municipality Alta is coming out positively. The result is poorer municipal services in large parts of Kommune-Norway: less funding for schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and health care. We get bigger differences in the country with this change in corporate tax, and that's actually the last Norwegian municipalities need. The right-hand party government provides poorer conditions for the Municipality of Norway. Therefore, the Workers' Party is opposed to the government's proposal to introduce municipal corporation tax. I want Sanner to clarify the following, which is quite unclear to us: if a municipality lays down a municipal hospital and a private hospital is established, will it trigger an increase in municipal corporation tax without creating a single new hospital place? I hope it's not like that. In this case, municipal corporation tax is a funny variant of Right's new ideas and new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1371	The welfare of most people is what we debate here today – a worthy old age and a good school. The tight community economy affects the everyday life of each one of us, from parents to kindergarten children, school pupils, relatives and the elderly. This is where the Labour Party has given 3 billion priority. kr more than what the government does. The working party will give all children born in the fall a right to a nursery place – it should just be missing. We will prevent better, including, inter alia: available education services and support for mental health, and the Workers' Party will provide activities for demente. These measures are good for individuals, and they are good investments for the community. The Education Association study showed that six out of ten schoolteachers say they have to cut in teacher settings. These are not good ideas and smart solutions. It is worth noting that the government has not come up with a permanent solution for the cost keys for ferry services and boat routes, and that further work has been announced on this against the municipal bill for 2017. It will also be natural that the following states should be compensated for their loss of income as a result of the conversion of the cost keys for the boat and ferries until a permanent solution is in place. Conversion of the income system and change of the cost keys to the county municipality resulted in a serious impact on Sogn and Fjordane. We got the worst out of all the counties, with a drop of 250 million. kr. When I then belong to the government of a government that takes action, I just have to say to the inhabitants of my county: these arrests are poorer well-being for her grandmother and his grandfather, they are worse schooling for our kids, and there are fewer colleges going on. The representative Lødemel also said that the criticism had stopped. Then I almost have to ask for a reading newspaper and listen to the radio. It was a warning before the blue-blue came to power, that the districts would be the great loser, and we are ours. We're happy now if we can keep the services we've always had. The conversion of 1 pst. of the corporation tax will cause losses for 23 out of 26 municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane. The total reduction in this conversion is actually over 5 million. NOK for the municipalities in total. The outcome of the dynamic tax policy does not come at all, but it also defends the representatives of the government. The government's priorities are tax cuts until they get over well-being to the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1390	We can state that so far as the debate is concerned, we are in a cross-political agreement on the order of honor, but in terms of reality and political action, this room separates layers. I have noticed the claim that the Workers' Party is going to think something different about the framework of the local economy when we are in opposition, than what we did when we were in government. It's a totally wrong accusation. The average annual growth of free revenues over eight red-green years was 1.8 pst. So far with the Right Party government, the same number is 1.2 pst. So you've reduced ambition by one-third. At the same time, the expectations of municipalities are increasing and the tasks are increasing. Why this disagreement? I am not surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party prioritise as they do, and that tax cuts are most important to them. But the Right Party and the Advance Party should not be surprised that the Workers' Party is proposing more money to the municipalities than to them. That's a consequence of the Workers' Party saying no thanks to 12 billion. kr in tax cuts. It seems like the Right and Advance Party's heaviest criticism of the Workers' Party is that we are proposing a two-digit number of billions to the municipalities for next year. It's a criticism that we live very well with, and it's also a continuation of the arrangements we made when we were in government. I'm very concerned about the change of line instead, where the Minister of State could not unequivocally state that the frameworks announced for next year are actually standing. So until next year too, municipalities have to live in uncertainty as to whether they will be allowed to maintain the framework if the tax failure continues. There are two unanswered questions so far in the debate. The chairperson of the Committee decided at the turn of the line that there is no need to introduce property taxes in the municipalities. And since he now has the word right after me, I will ask him to answer: why do the progressive party-driven municipalities do that, if it is not the frames that are too scarce? Is there, then, poor governance in the progressive party municipalities that is the reason they introduce or increase the property tax? And to the right I want to ask: when the 2013 tax level is obviously – according to them – very negative for businesses and businesses, why is it okay that the government's tax cut "pops up" again in the form of property taxes in the municipalities? I also believe that the Right should answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1407	The debate has been very pervasive, I would say. We have, however, registered a few new things, such as that the representative, Stine Renate Håheim, determines that the municipal proposition is not a kiosk, and perhaps even more interesting that the representative, Karin Andersen, thought that the plurality in this room is now better than it has been before. Then we also had a nice visit from the leader of the Labour Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, who was inside and talking a little bit about community economics. He said that we now see another reality. Then I don't think he's taken his inspiration from the KOSTRA speech that came yesterday, because if he went in and looked at the reality of the last year that the red-green put forward the government budget and adjusts for VAT compensation, the local government sector had a net operating result of 1.5 pst. If we go in and look at the first figures for this government and adjust for the VAT compensation, the local government sector had a net operating surplus of 1.5 pst. So we don't see another reality. We see exactly the same reality that we've seen before. The municipalities have a surplus. It should be bigger, but it shows that there is room to make priorities. But there is also a need for efficient operation. There is no significant difference between the municipal sector today and the municipal sector for the previous eight years. We've been through it many times before, too. The new thing is that the red-greens are now starting to read newspapers and are starting to follow up on the need for municipalities to cut. It's always like that, and it'll probably always be like that. So a little bit about property taxes, which Helga Pedersen challenges me on. It is not such that progressive party-driven municipalities stand out to any extent when it comes to increasing property taxes. I myself come from a progressive party-driven municipality. There, the municipal government removed the property tax in 2013. The neighbouring municipality of Os has a spokesman who says that the property tax is like doping – one must not depend on it. We have many municipalities that do what they can every day to avoid taxing property. I wish that even more municipalities and even more municipalities where the Progress Party is strong had done more to avoid taxes on property. I'm worried about the developments that we see. We read in, among others: The evening post that councillors and local government figures resort to property taxes before looking at efficiency and other things. There's something that bothers me, but the main explanation is not with the government. So it's going to be totally wrong to blame the Progress Party and the bulk of the growth because the Workers' Party locally votes for property taxes. I think a little bit of the explanation is that the red-green changes the collection system, so that one can easily taxi now than before. It makes it even easier to resort to property taxes to increase income. There's something we should follow closely from the Progress Party's side, because we've always been against property taxes and are still against it. If it is the case that the bulk of the population in the previous period made it too easy to introduce property taxes, there is something we should look very carefully at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1416	Several have said that municipalities are the main provider of good welfare services in municipalities. That's right. One of these important welfare services is good kindergartens. We know how important a good kindergarten is for every child and family, and the most important thing for us is that our children are doing well in kindergarten. It's important for the family to have room when they need it. But we want space in a kindergarten where we're sure that our child is doing very well every day. Most Norwegian kindergartens are very good and have employees who do a great job every day. But it is not that everything is perfect in the kindergarten sector, and that all kindergarten children get as good an offer as they should get. I think that in addition to building more places so that people can get out of line, we need to ensure more adults, more educators, small groups and a kindergarten without learning and monitoring and testing pressure. I think adults in kindergarten are Alpha and Omega. No children and no adults are doing well in kindergarten when there are too few adults. If it's not enough adults to see each child, comfort, food, change diapers, follow the toilet, help with food and drink, play out and go for a walk, then kindergartens are not a good and safe alternative for the children. The previous government promised that by 2020 a standard will be introduced for the number of adults in kindergarten. Sitting State Council has followed this up. That is good, but the Christian People's Party believes that 2020 is too late. We have arranged that this standard should be in place in 2016. Today, the number of adults per child varies greatly, and we know that it is no better when pressured municipal and kindergarten budgets are going up. That's why the Christian People's Party is impatient when it comes to putting in place a standard of manpower that ensures enough adults per child every day and all day. Professor May Britt Drugli has stated that the most important thing for a child’s well-being in kindergarten is the quality of the relationship between children and adults. A necessary prerequisite for good relations is probably adults — and competent adults. We know that there are many educators missing, and the recruitment challenges are high in the kindergarten sector. The Christian People's Party believes that the number of pedagogues in kindergarten should be increased. Many of those who work in kindergarten provide children with good care and security and do a very important job every day, regardless of education. But there is a need for more professionals in kindergartens, and here we have a great job to do. Stability in manpower is also important for children. It has a lot to say that there are familiar faces that meet us in everyday life – every day and over time – and perhaps especially for the youngest children. We also know that many kindergartens have too few adults at work instead of hiring temporary workers. It must be the economy, then, and not the best of children who rule. The Christian People's Party believes that a stricter requirement for temporary employment in case of sick leave is something that should also be put in place. These are important priorities for the Christian People's Party in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1429	I also have to say that every time we talk about kindergartens, schools, sports, culture, volunteering, the health services, the care of the elderly, we talk about the community economy. There have also been people in the hall today who have been very busy. The centre party said before the 2013 elections that a Right Party government would hit the district municipalities. We said it would go free on the scheme for smaller municipalities, on income equalization and on corporate taxes. We were caught by both the Right Party and the Advance Party. But today's attitude and debate show that we were right in our warnings against the government, and it is also confirmed by several speakers here today that the major cities are given priority. In a way, it is liberatingly honest that the Right Party and the Advance Party say it is as it is, that one prioritizes the big cities – only so sorry that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in the districts are still jumping around and giving people a completely different impression. The government's proposals for local economy next year are not very impressive. It is not impressive that growth in free income is consumed by cost growth, by the tied costs of new investments promised by the government, and by the fact that the demography is not fully covered. Then the tax deficit is high, and the overall result is that we get municipalities that don't have the opportunity to develop older people's care further, and that don't get the opportunity to carry out important tasks in kindergartens, schools and culture. Of a tax failure of about 4 billion. kr in 2014-2015 will only be compensated for SEK 1.1 billion. kr. This means that the rest must be taken either by saving and cutting offers or by increasing property taxes, and a number of municipalities have already increased property taxes since this government joined. They do it because they have no other choice, because when the local economy is suffocated, the tax for people increases most. The alternative is poor schools or poor care for the elderly. We can disagree, and we can discuss the framework back and forth. But one of the most important things the government does is a systematic approach to redistribution between municipalities. I see that the Right presents this as a reward for municipalities that are good at value creation. Yes, they will, but it's going to happen by taking from the other municipalities. 40 municipalities will get more, and 388 municipalities will pay what the 40 municipalities get. In my home state, Nord-Trøndelag, it is not a single municipality that gets – well, it is one municipality. But otherwise there are 23 municipalities that do not benefit from this, but that will contribute to the reward of the other municipalities in central districts. It is a clear and systematic redistribution that will affect the small municipalities and will affect all districts in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1443	When it comes to what I said instead that the criticism of the conversion of the income system for the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane has ceased, it is clear that there is criticism of the long-term effects of the conversion of the income system, and especially in recent years. But there has been a thorough review of the budget in the county municipality, and we have had a completely different debate here today – the same thing also in Sogn and fjordane – than what we had a year ago. Otherwise, I have to say I react to my home state, Sogn and Fjordne, being pointed out as a brave group of many red-green politicians. This is far from the truth. The representative Navarsete says that now we see the negative consequences of a blue-blue government. Today, the Stortinge will adopt a system of suspensions for the county roads that will open up to billions of dollars for the construction of bridges in my home country. When the Centerparte was last in government, they tried a 20-year scheme. She was so bad that they couldn't use it. Last Wednesday, the government party and the cooperation party at Stortinget put in place a scheme of green certificates for power plants, which the red-green government failed in the previous period. In total, it's more than 1 billion. SEK for power plants in Sogn and Fjordane during the licence period. The Labour Party, with Ingrid Heggø at its head, voted against that arrangement. Otherwise, there's been a lot of complaints about centralization. The proposal by the Fisheries Director for the relocation of the regional office in Måløy has been rejected by the Government. That's the office. It has also been an administrative recommendation to sell the research station at Bioforsk in Fjaler. This has also been rejected. The mound of Sogn and Fjordane shall remain independent, after a thorough discussion between the department and the Højskulen, even after a decision has been taken here in Stortinget. Elles has a broad majority with the Government Party, the Cooperation Party and the Labour Party in place a near-police reform that ensures police contact in all municipalities that do not have police or officers offices and that the police and officers' seat prioritizes local knowledge, prevention and participation in the local environment in order to capture negative developments. Police reform facilitates the best possible close-up police at the same time as you can take care of and build strong professional environments and specialist functions. Finally, this government is in favour of a formidable bet on the state roads. 1.2 B.C.E. kr more than under the red-green government is put on the table to develop, build and maintain county roads. This is a formidable bet, anything other than 32 million. kr as the last red-green government laid on the table for country roads in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1458	The government parties and the supporting parties here in Stortinget have a series of comments in which they discuss the further work on the municipal reform. Maybe they should limit themselves a little bit, because it's completely impossible to find any logical relationship between them. On the one hand, it is said that there should be real volunteering for the municipalities involved in the merger process. On the other hand, they come up with proposals to instruct the government to speed up the county council's proposal for a municipal map for each county. Freedom as long as you agree with us, forced you not to follow our assumptions. It goes from both the government and the majority, even if they try to turn away. The majority refers to their comments from the last year's treatment of the municipal reform, where it is said that all municipalities have an obligation to investigate in the context of the municipal reform. The Ministry has used this note in the order to the municipalities. It's probably conscious. The situation is that municipalities can be imposed, but this must be done by law or regulation. Something like this has not been treated here in the hall. So there's no formal obligation for the municipalities to investigate, just a majority comment. So it's said in a milder tone: ‘At the same time, the majority are concerned that there should be real voluntary participation of the municipalities involved in merger processes. If, after an overall assessment and having obtained views from its citizens, municipalities conclude that aggregation is not currently relevant, this is a conclusion that the majority considers it necessary to be respected.» The exception is when individual municipalities stop changes which, in the view of the government, are appropriate for regional reasons. The freewill line has been expressed more strongly by Stortinget through the task message. The government's municipal reform has hardly a majority here at Stortinget. I am particularly pleased that the Workers' Party has distanced itself from the government's approach to municipal reform. However, it does not seem that the government parties and the supporting parties are concerned anymore with the broad majority behind the reform. The comments state: ‘The government asks the syta to advise the county councillors on the municipal structure of the county after the municipalities have taken their decisions since 1 July 2016.’ So, you're going to outrun local democracy. Then it becomes quite comical when representatives of these parties here in the Chamber say that the Central Party does not respect the local politicians. I guess that's exactly what we're doing, and we're the guarantors for it. Many around ask themselves what is really the status of Stortinget. My advice to questioning local politicians is clear: stand firm on the conclusions you think are right, be clear on your own assessments and your own choices. I don't think the bulk of the population in spring 2017 will be overrun by recommendations from statesmen. Our role as national politicians is not to overrun the local people's regime, but to facilitate the optimum functioning of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1486	I take the word because I listened to Eirik Sivertsen from the Labour Party, where he asked questions about the municipalities really need incentives to facilitate nutrition development. He even claimed that the Labour Party spokesmen do not need such incentives. This is contrary to my experience. In Hordaland County, we have the municipality of Tysne with Labour Party spokesmen. He's asking to boycott the entire farming industry just because the government won't introduce an area tax. I think it's quite alarming that a Labour Party spokesman can go as far as to challenge the boycott of the growth possibilities of an entire industry just because he doesn't get the tax system he wants. So Sivertsen is wrong. I can note that the Stoltenberg government in 2008 paid an area tax, but they concluded that this was too difficult, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2008-2009, chap. 2.4. Instead of this land tax, they chose to submit a proposal for the possibility of printing property tax on free-flowing marine farms. This was introduced and the tax base includes the value of the plant itself, but not the value of the farmed fish. So the working party's medicine is even more taxes and taxes. The farming industry depends on sufficient and suitable areas for further growth. In the government's political platform, it is clear that the municipalities that make the land available to the aquaculture industry should have greater and more positive repercussions from this activity, and that the government will therefore send much of the remuneration for the award of new concessions to these municipalities. Yesterday, in the Grand Duchy, it became clear that we are some of the government’s policies for a larger share of the remuneration for new concessions and growth in the farming industry. This was also the end of the Workers' Party. So here we're going to solve for 80 pst. of the consideration, while 20 pst. goes to the state. I think the scheme we're putting up with now, with the change that concession fees go into a fund and go back to the municipalities, will give the municipalities a very good incentive to facilitate growth in the marine environment along our entire coast. This will affect all the municipalities that have a farming industry today. In addition, changes in the tax system come, so the sum of this I think is very, very good policy, which Norway needs to create growth in all business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1497	We have had a good arrangement for the municipalities and county municipalities through this municipality proposition. It is a scheme that outlines a good and balanced growth for municipalities, and the government makes good efforts to strengthen the movement rate in the counties. From a transport perspective, it is good to see that it is put up for a continued bet on the roads. That's absolutely necessary. In the administrative reform, carried out by the red-green government in 2010, county councils have been transferred a large maintenance allowance, estimated at between 45 and 75 billion. kr. It's a formidable challenge that the previous government didn't have a plan for how to solve it, but the funds for county road betting are now being stepped up. It is still not enough to solve the huge challenges facing county municipalities in 2010, but it is at least a start. Some of us are above average interested in ferry relievers, and it's not so strange when we live in a country where the coast is split up by mountains and fjords, and where the population is totally dependent on ferries to get there. Only in More and Romesdal do we have 22 county road ferries and four national road ferries. For highways, we have a ferry relief system where the funds going to ferries could have been used to finance the bridge or tunnel. Following the administrative reform in 2010, many of the ferry links became county councils without establishing a good principle of how ferry relief can be managed in the county income system. We're going to have a solution to that right now. The scheme allows county municipalities to use the funds they currently use for ferry operations for the construction of bridges or tunnels without compromising the income of county municipalities. We can now do this for a period of up to 40 years. When people like me applaud the ferry redemption scheme, it may seem a little bit strange to many, but we're cheering with good reason. The Ferry Redemption Scheme is of great importance for the financing of many ferry relief projects across our coast. For many of the projects, it is absolutely crucial, and it is not the case that this affects other projects. Ferry release solvents are linked to the specific ferry connection and can only be used there. The alternative is still ferrying, with the disadvantages it has with irregularity, limited opening time and too low frequency. However, it is not that all ferry connections will be replaced overnight, it is a bit optimistic. Therefore, I am pleased with the signals that the department will continue to work on how to compensate county municipalities for the costs of ferry operations. There is a need to find a fairer distribution system. I see that it may be difficult, but it is also important to put in place a system that stimulates county councils to choose more environmentally friendly vessels. The ferry sector is an important part of our infrastructure, and the transition to low-emission or zero-emission ferries is an important contribution to reducing emissions from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1508	In the right, we have a special commitment to early efforts for children and young people. Yesterday, KOSTRA figures for 2014 showed that the government’s commitment to the school health service is working. There were 157 more health sisters in municipalities in 2014 than in 2013. It's an increase that relates to the 180 million. kr, which was distributed to the municipalities in the free resources, promoted in the red-green budget proposals and continued by our government. That's good numbers, but we're not satisfied. That is why our government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has strengthened the budget by 270 million. kr in 2015 and announces a further increase of 200 million. kr in 2016. That means that on top of the red-green level of 180 million. Our government with the 2016 budget will have strengthened it by nearly half a billion. There are a number of ways that the funds have to be earmarked, but maybe we still have to follow carefully and have some ice in our stomachs when it comes to ear tagging, because it also has its drawbacks. It provides greater administrative costs and little predictability because, as you know, the Stortinge grant funds for one year at a time. The funds must then also be applied for by the municipalities. And that's another important disadvantage: it deprives municipalities of the opportunity to rig their prevention services as they choose from their own local circumstances. Some municipalities have the greatest need to strengthen school health services with health sisters. Other municipalities want more physiotherapists, multiple psychologists or other health professionals. From 2013 to 2014, the number of psychologists in municipalities increased by 100, while there are still too few physiotherapists in health centres. The COSTRA figures for 2014 show a moderate growth in the number of positions in prevention services in municipalities, but from a decline in positions in the last year of government to the red-greens, it has increased again in the first year of government of the Right-Fremskritsparti. And, as I said, this service has received, and gets, a historical investment in 2015 and 2016. Now it's up to the municipalities to continue prioritizing, because we know that an open door into the school health service can be the important way into help, early efforts and opportunities for many, many children. It is good news that many municipalities are already doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1519	There have been many fine contributions from many in the Chamber here, but the theme behind it is that it is not municipal economy and welfare that is the most important thing for this government. There is one thing that is the most important and as a drummer everything else, and it is tax cuts – tax cuts that are very accurate in their pockets to the richest and a real bomb when it comes to value creation, new industries and the conversion of Norway. It's against this great backtrace this discussion is going on. As an illustration: In the budget, the government proposes to spend a hundred times more on tax cuts than on basic training. I think there is a great deal to say about the importance of this debate for the government party. In other words, the large investments go to a small group of people who already have more than enough. The really big investments should go to those who need the most – children, young people, elephants, students, people who are tired, people who are sick, older people who need a handshake – but all these are in the government's blind zone. SV runs a different policy. Let me take education policy in our alternative community structure as an example. In order for the teaching to really take place on each individual student's premises to realize the progressive schooling about custom training, we suggest that several teachers be introduced by manning standards. More students in the school will want more teachers back to their teaching profession. The research carried out by the Education Association shows that there are almost 40,000 teachers who have left the profession and that there is just time pressure in the school leading to many leaving the profession. We thought it was high time that teachers were now mobilised with demands for a standard of personnel; SV is in complete agreement. We propose to support all support functions in the school, so that the whole human being is taken care of by a strong upgrading of the health centres and the school health services. We suggest a more varied school with more physical activity, more emphasis on practical and aesthetic. We suggest introducing fruit and vegetables for all stages and in addition bread for the smallest, because we know how important nourishment is for learning, people's health and to smooth out social differences. We are notifying you of proposals to extend the school day. Today, students are already much of the day at school, with half the time at SFO – a very variable and expensive supply. In the first place, we want to extend the school day from 1:00 p.m. 16 to 16 o'clock. 18th@item: inlistbox Overall, these are expensive reforms, but it may be the most important investment Norway can make. We still have a unique economic situation, and we now have the opportunity to really escalate the level of ambition of the school. If Norway is really going to take the step into a new era, where we're going to change to an age after the oil age, we're going to have to start with human beings. We need to build education that promises everyone who creates creativity and creativity. For SV, knowledge is Norway's wealth, which we want to spend the big money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1532	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1535	The representative, Keshvari, said earlier in the debate that the Workers' Party was an enemy of the capital. I would like to point out that in our alternative municipality plan in 2015, the municipality of Oslo would have received 230 million. kr more. The representative Keshvari voted against, and the question then is: Is it the Workers' Party or the Advance Party that is hostile to the capital? Then I thank you for the answer from the representative Njåstad on property tax. So the answer is that it's the red-green government that cheats the Progress Party-Right Town Council in Bergen to introduce property taxes last year. I don't want to say that is a statement of trust to local democracy or to its own party traps. Finally, an unanswered question, to the Right and the Advance Party: What is the technical and political justification for the need for 386 municipalities to reduce their income in order to stimulate economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1544	Finally, I can simply say that the premise of the representative Pedersen is wrong. How this scheme becomes when it is introduced from 2017, we do not yet know, but Pedersen insists on using wrong numbers, which are not to be used when we get to 2017. Otherwise, it seems to me that the distinction in the debate today has essentially gone between those who talk about the costs, and those who talk about both the costs and how we facilitate growth and more income, or said in another way: those who talk about sharing, and those who talk about that we also have to create to be able to share. It is that next year there will be a growth in the free income of between 4.5 and 5 billion. kr. I've heard more, including from the Center Party, which has been up today, and which thinks it was a small number -- that's obviously small money we're talking about when we're talking about in the billions class, up to 5 billion. kr! Let me remind you that when the city councillor of the Central Party, Navarsete, presented the municipal bill for 2011, the growth of the free revenues was 1.25 billion. kr – 1,25 br. kr – i.e. about a quarter of the growth in free income we're talking about today. But then the Central Party would have asked for criticism, because then the answer from Navarsette was: ‘We look around us in Europe, and see the conditions in other countries, it will be difficult to take seriously the grievances voiced by the opposition, and that relate to a framework that provides room for increased service provision as the population changes.’ So the growth in free income was a quarter of what it becomes for 2016. Property taxes have also been discussed. This is the way – now I think I stand by what I have said before – that most municipalities that have now introduced property taxes made decisions to introduce property taxes while there was still a red-green government. It's not something they invented last week, to say it like that. That's the one. The second is that in spite of all the differences between the parties, there is also a difference between the parties – the Right, the Advance Party and other parties – who are actively fighting against the introduction of property taxes in Rissa and Malvik and in other municipalities in Trøndelag, among others, and the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, who in Oslo are actively choosing that property taxes are an ingenious idea to be introduced into a city like Oslo. I also think the voters will notice that. Otherwise, right-wing representatives have today talked about how to facilitate growth throughout Norway. Looks like the centre party's just heard of the people who've been talking about the cities. But let me remind you that Right-wing speakers from Hordaland, from More and Romesdal, from Northland and from Troms have not been prominent urbanists, but they have talked about how we also build District Norway. It would have been nice if the centre party had listened to those posts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1564	Helga Pedersen spoke today about the 'honor words', and much of the debate has been within a relatively predictable framework today. Reference has been made to the county income system. Yes, some of us saw that there were clear deficiencies last year. That is why we also received an enhanced loss compensation scheme. The Left and Christian People's Party have been clear that during this year's budgetary negotiations we will see whether it has come into place and is sufficient. There's no doubt that what we're going to put in place now by ferry solvents will be good for the coastal states. Then the representative, Mr. Greni, takes up some of his mantra with regard to the local People's Government. Yes, we all want local government and good service to be at the forefront. For our part, it's just in focus, because things have actually changed over the 50 years of the last municipal reform. Sometimes I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Center Party has discovered it, but the mobility of society is much bigger now than it was. It is with amazement that I read comments in what has been presented today. Most of us are trying to assume that there should be no mistake. We are also clear that there must be the possibility of bilingualism in some of the counties in the future, not only in the case of Sami, but also in the case of neuron. When I read over one more time last night, I have to say that I was a little surprised when I saw that there is a broad majority in the committee who agree that the new Norwegians will still have their strong position – with the exception of the Workers' Party. It is clear to me that this is conscious: it is not important for the largest party in the country that the newnorth remains important in the future. For me and the Left, it's particularly important that the new Norway has good conditions in the future, also because it's a lot about identity. Unfortunately, I see that this does not apply to the largest party in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1581	If the municipalities are to have freedom, they must actually have financial space to carry out the tasks we say they should have. We believe the school should be tip-top and work well for all kids. Then you have to pay the cost. The government and the majority do not want that. It is a choice of value when SV chooses to spend money on schools, care for the elderly, child protection, school health services and climate action in municipalities and not on taxes to the richest. Yes, we're also spending half a billion, so the municipal sector can take better care of the most disadvantaged, because the municipalities are responsible for them. Neither will the government. They do not want to contribute money to action, so that young people who fall out of high school are given opportunities. They say no that municipalities should have money to hire apprentices. Municipalities don't make money on apprentices, they only have payroll costs. The private sector makes money on apprentices and can therefore see its merits. SV's scheme is a school package with several teachers, food, fruit and green and physical activity. There is better care for the elderly with more employees and more help for the elderly who need it, whether at home or in a nursing home. There is more money for resource-intensive services and user-driven personal assistant. There is a right to kindergarten and more admissions a year. We earmark the money for more recordings this year because we believe that when you promise, you have to keep it. We want to expand the system of free half-day seats in kindergarten because we know that it is extremely important that all children go to kindergarten, and also that they start early. We also secure money in the local economy so that municipalities can take their heavy climate responsibility and not least have money for the climate adaptations that must occur when extreme weather hits. Well, it does. We've seen that a lot of municipalities are hit very hard. In the case of time thieves in the municipal sector, SV wants a trust reform. There are some time thieves that the government could help to get away, for example. the time thieves who have struck the Osloskole. It now introduces schematic requirements for all teachers who each teacher in all classes must follow, where they must not choose instruction based on their professional judgement and what the students need, but on the basis of what political leadership has decided. It has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1594	It was the representative Pedersen who made me draw one more time, when she made a visit to my associate Keshvari, who asked questions about whether the Labour Party is hostile to Oslo or not. I'm not going to debate whether the party is hostile or not, but I'm going to pay attention to some numbers. It is true that the Labour Party in the opposition increases the municipal framework, so that Oslo would get more than 230 million. kr more, based on the numbers one has as opposition party, but one that one did not have in the eight years one was positioning party. More seriously, the Labour Party voted against a new income system for the county councils, which is equivalent to 672 million. kr per. So when one asks the question whether it's the Progress Party or the Labour Party that's most hostile, if one uses such a characteristic, to Oslo, I'll say it's the party that says no to 672 million. kr, which is the most hostile, and not the party that does not have 230 million. kr in position, but the working party has when in opposition. Then the representative Pedersen also said something about it being the red-green ones who tricked the City Council in Bergen to reintroduce property taxes. Of course it is not, but I think that the red-green government has a large part of the responsibility for the situation in the municipality of Bergen. One must bear in mind that in 2008 the red-green government removed the municipal part of the corporate tax from which Bergen had solid income. In the same period, the red-green framework funding for municipalities increases in favour of less tax, which Bergen lost a lot. As if it wasn't enough, they also increased the bias between tax and tax-weak municipalities. Three major changes in the income system that the red-greens did have an unfortunate impact on Bergen. When the City Council in Bergen later had to adapt the revenue to the expenses they have, and take again a large school drop that former Labour Party Bureau has its share of responsibility for, I thought it would be a little untimely to place responsibility only on the City Council. Elles has been involved in the debate on corporate tax today. What surprises me a little bit is that there's still one impression among many that corporate taxes are for those who have the most entrepreneurial activity. In that case, the proposed model has either not been read enough or not understood. Here's the actual growth that's being premiered, and then there's the same chance of growth for a municipality with a small starting point as for a rich, rich municipality with a large starting point. That is precisely why we on 14 September will invite all the new local government representatives to facilitate growth, because it will give a premiere. Then it's wrong to use a theoretical model for how it might have been, because it's actually the job you're doing from today on out next year, which will form the basis for what income you get in 2017. All municipalities have the possibility to increase their income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1605	The President hopes there are no municipalities that have enemies in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1608	When representatives Jensen and Skjelstad come with such a canonade against the Central Party, it is tempting to take the floor again. First of all, I have to say that it is probably right that there have been many – even from districts – from the Right Party and the Advance Party who have been up here today and talked nicely about the municipal structure, and my claim is that then they throw bladders in the eyes of their own voters. For the honest version is the one that Keshvari's representative brought in, that it is the major cities that are given priority, and that a systematic redistribution from the districts and to the larger cities is being taken in full. The company tax is one example of this, and it is clear that the overview that the Centerpartiet has received from the department, dated 21 May 2015, is probably not exactly the one that will exist in 2017. There may have been some things happening, but the main redistributive grip that lies in the changes is still there, and it indicates today that there are 40 municipalities that have something to do with it, and 388 that loses. Trondheim makes $6 million. kr and Malvik lose 2 million. kr. The representative of the municipality of Skkelstad, Verran, loses – like almost all the municipalities of Nord-Trøndelag. I also don't feel that much about the issue of property taxes and what Jensen, the representative, says about the red-green view of property taxes. The centre party is highly critical of property taxes. In my home municipality, Stjørdal, we fight with beaks and claws against property taxes, and we find it sad that one increases and introduces property taxes in as many Right and Advance Party municipalities as one has done in the last two years. And we sincerely believe that it's probably because you can't get the ends to meet in the local economy. Otherwise, I have to say that there are still new arguments for community mergers coming on the table, and the last thing is enough that the small municipalities are doing too well. I am convinced that this government will be able to do something about it – either by cutting down on the financial framework of the small municipalities or by trying to coerce them into larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1621	The representative, Frank J. Jensen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1624	No, I think the centerpart rapporteurs are just as happy as the right-wing rapporteurs to introduce property taxes. I just note that there are also many central party rapporteurs who have had to introduce property taxes, but also that the decisions on this were taken when it was a red-green government in the country. I asked for the word to make a correction that is quite important for the part of the protocol: in my previous post, I was injured to mix two numbers, which are not completely immaterial, in my comment on Navarsete's posts, where I said that former Minister of Municipalities Navarsete had announced a growth in the free revenues of the municipalities of 1.25 billion. kr. It was supposed to be 1.25 pst. That's right. However, the score still stands, because it is actually that there was still a lower growth in the free income than what we are putting up to now, and at that time Navarsete met the criticism from the opposition, saying that the opposition was doing ‘moaning’. So the point is, but I'm sorry that the number was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1633	The main issue with this post is already taken – because I sat in my office and jumped a little in the chair when I heard the representative Frank J. Jenssen operate with some numbers that I definitely didn't know about. If the Right and Advance Party are going to be real in the debate, they're going to use the average of the income we had in the Red-Green government, and then they're going to use the average of what we see from this government, and then they're going to compare. And then I'm very excited about what the red-green government did – and about the distribution. The representative Lødemel points out in his last speech that it is wrong to say that Sogn and Fjordne are a loser and point to the victories one has by retaining existing jobs and holiday-resolution funds – which are very good, but as state politicians and others in Sogn and Fjordne are in doubt if one can be used, because they actually have to hold some funds themselves. And when you cut as many millions as you do in Sogn and Fjordane over a very short period of time, there won't be that much money left to go into the holiday settlement project, or to build big projects – as we've done in Sogn and Fjordne in the last few years, big bridge project, big road project, among other things. has given rise to islands. When the government wants to reintroduce municipal corporation tax, then the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane will lose again, so it is severing, as well as the redistribution that one has done for the benefit of the big cities. But another point that made me want to get up here again was an interesting moment from the representative Lødemeel, because he said that the high ball in Sogn and Fjordane should be a self-contained high ball, and that it was actually settled in this hall. I don't think I'm going to be perceived like this at home in Sogn and Fjordane – even reading from the minister of knowledge who stood in Sogn Avis on June 2nd, where he continues to say that we should continue the merger, and that he thinks that the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane should join another höjskule. Now the representative is not Lødemel here, but I would have liked to be confirmed, from the government, that an actually means this from the government's side. Because then one can lower the shoulders of Sogn and Fjordne when it comes to the hedgehog, when it comes to the threat that hangs over the school and the eternal mass that a particularly successful hedgehog – that recruits well, that has a high degree of implementation, that has really been a success story for the last few years and that cooperates well with the business community in the county – can actually continue to concentrate on it, instead of having the minister of knowledge and government sitting on the neck and telling all the time that they are not good enough, but must stay under another hedgehog or university.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1644	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1647	The representative Arnstad made me take the floor. I am just as amazed every time that when this has been up in the debate on corporate tax, it is finally concluded from the red-green as to what that scheme will be next year, before it is actually implemented. I have to say that surprises me. This is obviously the mantra to allow it to spread, so that there is an even greater degree of uncertainty. Moreover, several of us have been keenly concerned about facilitating the districts, which are also referred to as a harange that it is not in this debate. The loss compensation scheme for county municipalities, inter alia: to Sogn and Fjordane, to my own country, and not least to Northernland, came into place through the budget negotiations last year. That was important, and that was right. Then we'll have to make an assessment in the budget negotiations this year of whether it's necessary again. She may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1654	It's approaching the end of a long debate, and it's also approaching the end of the collapse session. It might be good that there is a long summer break in front of us, so that the majority representatives can use the time to travel around the municipality of Norway and form a picture of how reality actually appears out there. Because the picture we're getting painted by the majority in this Chamber in this debate is a picture I think very many municipal politicians are not familiar with. Spending time well during the summer break can be a good recommendation – and actually listen to what's going on out there, among other things. in Bergen. I believe that Mr. Njåstad is trying to trace the debate when he claims that the representative Helga Pedersen has blamed the situation there at the municipality of Bergen. The fact is that Bergen would have come out significantly better with the municipal structure that the Workers' Party has outlined. Trying to derail the debate in this way is just to camouflage that the fact that Bergen still has a very difficult situation is something that comes as a result of the municipal arrangement of the government parties. I also think that Njåstad is a bit helpful when he mentions changes in the company tax as it is up to each municipality to decide how to get out of it, finding the solution almost on its own. If you travel around the municipality of Norway a little bit, you can see that decisions related to business start-ups and how this affects the local economy are far from the hands of a lot of rapporteurs, especially in the district of Norway. I feel that municipal politicians work hard every day to attract more activity, start-ups and industrial development. However, what the government is proposing here will only help to reinforce the differences between those areas that already suck up skills, labour and business away from those areas that already have a difficult situation. So a positive comment at the end, and that's the comment on page 56 of the setting. Closely, there is an overall increase in the demanding situation of a very large number of municipalities in relation to child-restraint measures in child-rich individual families, where the municipality of residence bears a considerable responsibility even if the measures are implemented in other municipalities. I'm glad that the Storting thus expresses understanding of that situation. I would have liked to hear from the Council of State Sanner, when the Stortinget is so clear in its feedback on this matter, confirm that this is something that is being followed up against the statesmen. Actually, you should have in the long run worked out a more permanent solution for these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1665	It's almost gotten so that if you're on this pulpit and named Oslo, it's interpreted as an attack on all the other municipalities that you don't mention in that post. It's not like that, we've seen more evidence of that today. But it's still that I'm always a little bit more nervous before I start to browse the settings, the lives, etc., where the Workers' Party has put in its policy for Oslo. Recently, we have seen that there are still political ideas and proposals that matter nothing but cut in the offer that we are going to give to the citizens of the city. For example, one of the Workers’ Party’s representatives in the pulpit has today called for the reconversion of the county income system to be postponed. What would that mean for Oslo? Over 600 million. Mr. Oslo would have lost on such a scheme. These are the ideas of the Workers' Party for this city. Then it's fair to ask, where would the Workers' Party pick up this money from? Cut the school offer in Oslo? Cut Groruddalsatsinga? Or increase taxes on property? We have not received an answer to that. My associate Frank J. Jenssen asked in reply the representative Helga Pedersen very politely about where the municipality would pick up their money to buy up 10 pst. of the new dwellings. The representative Pedersen shook his head and said that it is not the Labour Party's policy. Well, I've read the big-city document that the Workers' Party adopted at its national meeting this year, and it says that you should buy 10 pst. of new dwellings, that the municipality should use its right to do so. So I ask the representative Pedersen if she can come up to the pulpit now and confirm that it is the Labour Party's policy that they adopted at their national meeting. Instead of saying that this has never been the Labour Party's policy, she can say that this should never be the Labour Party's policy. And if the representative doesn't have more speaking time left, I'm willing to give up my minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1675	The President is afraid of the Rules of Procedure does not open up such trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1678	I will not try to extend the debate unnecessarily, but when I hear the representative Liv Signe Navarsete, there is a need for some comments. The first concerns the changes in the income system of the counties, as we have explained on repeated occasions. The longer you expected, the larger the changes would be. There are many counties who over time have received less money than they should be entitled to. We have now corrected, it should have been done a long time ago. But still, the average free income for the counties is about $12,000, while Sogn and Fjordane have about $20,000. That you can make it so that Sogn and Fjordne have to through dramatic cuts when you're so high above average, it seems very special. I also have to add that Sogn and Fjordane for the current year have been compensated by 96.8 p.m., so the compensation this year is almost as much as the reduction has been. In addition, it should also be possible for the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to rejoice that we have opened up an industrial adventure, Engebø, in Sogn and Fjordane, which will provide many new private jobs, and that we also opened up to the Lead Package, which has been longed for in Sogn and Fjordane. So there's come a lot of important in place. It is natural that time is spent discussing whether the frameworks are larger or smaller, but what we can see is that in the last three years the bourgeois government has announced higher growth in the free incomes, minus what is then to cover pensions and demography, than it was in the previous three years with red-green rule. At least you can't put it as if it's gotten a lot worse. I am also pleased that the survey shows that the population is more satisfied with the municipal services after two years of civil government than they were in 2013. Overall, they are a little more satisfied in municipalities with over 20,000 inhabitants than in the smaller ones. There we see that the inhabitants are evenly satisfied, and you are equally satisfied with the different services. We also note that COSTRA figures show that things are moving in the right direction in health, school and care. And then it is quite natural that rapporteurs from different parties have higher ambitions than any government can achieve in the financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1693	The representative, Heidi Greni, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1696	To the representative of Skkelstad, I have to say that the Central Party has discovered that the world has changed for the last 50 years. That is why we are constantly engaged in innovation and development in the local government sector. However, the Central Party has not discovered that local politicians have become so lowly competent and so much more intelligent during these 50 years, that the latter have to overrun local politicians who obviously do not know their own best. Then I'd like to thank Keshvari for letting the cat out of the bag. Before today I claimed that there were many who now shared the view of the Central Party that the government was pursuing a centralisation policy. It was rejected in the loop. At least then, I would like to thank Keshvari, who clearly shares my view, and who today was very clear that the government will strengthen the big cities and pursue a centralisation policy. It may be good for more people that the cat is out of the bag. Then I have to wonder which local politicians they associate with who think they need to have an initiative to think about industrial development in their own municipality. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1705	Then the minute had passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1708	Let me start with the representative Kapur. I have to say that I think he is reading the political documents of the Workers' Party, as the Bible was reading in my mind, and I have a certain impression that the representative continued where he left off in the debate on the tasks of the municipal reform, with his head far inside the municipal election campaign in Oslo. And that might be natural, it's approaching choices. We have made some demands in this debate, including: to the Council of State, which remains unanswered. The professional justification for taking from the poorest municipalities and giving to the rich, creating jobs – it is still unanswered. We have challenged whether privatising a nursing home in the new corporate tax scheme will give greater tax clearance to municipalities. We have not received an answer to that either. We may get an answer to that when you get back to the specific arrangement, but it was at least not answered today. So to the representative Jensen, who determines that there will be growth in the free income of the municipal sector next year: it's right – if the government's arrangement is adopted, and with an important premise, that the assumptions, the growth of tax revenue, hold. It did not last year, and then the government said that no, in principle we do not compensate municipalities for the failure of tax revenue – they must bear that loss themselves. They do this year, and neither does the government compensate for the tax revenue this year. They adjust to the economic structure of the municipalities – not in full as tax revenues, but at least little. So yes, the representative Frank J. Jensen is absolutely right, given that the premise holds. This has not been done in the two years the government has ruled so far. So to Committee Chairman Njåstad, who is busy telling about how bad it will be in Oslo if the Labour Party's policy is adopted. The problem is that he only tells half of the truth. In addition to the 230 million. kr, which we added extra to the framework transfers to the municipalities, was the total growth in the municipal scheme of the Workers' Party of 3.4 billion. kr in addition to the bet of the government. Below it's 600 million. kr to the counties, of which Oslo will take its large share. We compensated for the tax income of the municipalities, it was 2.7 billion. kr. The government wouldn't do that. And then we added 1 billion. kr for collective investment. The sum of it means that Oslo would have come out much better with the Labour Party's policy than with the government's and the Progress Party's and the Right's policy. Otherwise, I record that the representative Trellevik has problems with the rapporteur in Tysnes having views on the effects and benefits of breeding activities. Well, so does the Right-Rapporteur in Narvik, but it's a local political question, and it has to be allowed to decide it as well, as with the property tax. Otherwise, I hope that we may now be able to move on from that with the eight years of red-green government, and now in this debate we also went all the way back before the bourgeois city council in Oslo. It's time to start looking forward to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1723	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1726	SV will distribute the money differently from the government. We believe that the government distributes unfairly among people, between municipalities and between states and municipalities, and that both people with normal incomes should get more, municipalities with small incomes should get more, and the state should give more to the municipalities. This bias does not create many jobs. It creates fewer jobs than SV's, which would give more to all municipalities and county councils in the country. Perhaps the worst thing about the government's arrangement is the centralization and privatisation lever. Privatisation is not about much, because it is about the heroes of the welfare state, the ladies who labor in the care professions, and who, when they are privatised and exposed to competition, lose pensions and wages. There's an SV disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1735	I can't stop speaking when the representative Karin Andersen claims that the government wants to privatize welfare services. I have not realized that the government has called for the privatisation of welfare services at all. What we have recently presented, on the other hand, is a guide, or a cookbook, for municipalities that want to introduce free user choice. And what does free user choice involve? Well, it means that the municipality pays, but that older people, for example, pay. can choose whether they want a municipal home help or if they want a private home help. It's a kind of choice that we're in for, and I'm quite convinced that will gradually come into more and more municipalities – where you'll still have strong municipal services, but where people are allowed to choose between different services. Whether they want municipal or private, the municipality pays, but it is older people who decide who will come home to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1754	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1768	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1775	The proposal from the Left's Terje Breivik, Trine Skei Grande, Ola Elvestuen and André N. Skkelstad is about strengthening the right to protection, and they're proposing three things to achieve it. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for a very good rapporteur's job. We all agree with the rapporteurs that post-protection must work as best as possible, and we also share the concern that the proposal for a representative is concerned that it does not always do so. For good and predictable follow-up protection is necessary so that the transition from child to adult is as smooth as possible. The children we are talking about here are a vulnerable group, and they should and should be kept as close as possible. The Committee received a reply from the Council of State Horne on the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative, and concluded essentially with her reply. However, there is reason to be concerned that the poster protection does not always work well enough. There are, unfortunately, too many feedback about that. Although the limit for receiving after-sales protection is now 23 years and those who say no to the offer are to be followed up and contacted, we know that it does not happen permanently. Therefore, it is important that child protection is more active, tries to catch up with those who do not get a good enough offer, and see if the offer can be improved. I would also like to mention that the County Council's responsibility for the effective follow-up of municipalities is an important control point. It is the State Health Authority that has the overall professional responsibility, and here the Committee calls in particular for the State Health Authority to consider the post-care task as a supervisory task now, since both the Child Welfare Act and the foster home care are under review. That is a wish of the Committee. Increased attention is important for children over 18 years of age. The Committee fully agrees on this. However, the Committee is of the opinion on the proposal that we should wait for the review by the Council of State on child protection and foster home care. We expect post-protection to be a natural part of that work. The Committee broadly agrees, but we share on the proposal for an action plan now or not. The Christian People's Party will now have an action plan, while the rest of the Committee will wait and see if the announced review will take place, and rather come back to it if necessary, when matters are dealt with. This does not mean that the Committee believes that post-protection works well enough, but we believe that the matter should be looked at in its entirety. I expect that the Christian People's Party will support its proposal itself, but I would already say that, after an assessment, the Labour Party has decided that we will support proposal No. 3, from the left, about a better municipal control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1792	First, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an important issue, and the Council of State for showing commitment to this matter by providing an in-depth and thorough answer. I'm going to think that most people have read the blog post to 16-year-old Rita Hansen last week. She starts out with a special post saying, "I'm a 16-year-old girl." Further: ‘I have lived under child protection for 14 years and have been in children’s homes, shelters and foster homes. I now live at a child-care facility on a ‘care paragraph’. Here I have been told that I will stay for two more years, until I am 18 and I am going out all alone in the world." She keeps asking for a family. She writes that ‘I’m looking for a place I can call home and feel normality’. And on the other hand, ‘I want to join the family dinner and know that I have some 100% to celebrate Christmas with, now as 16 years old, and later when I’m maybe 24. Childhood protection says it's too late to look for foster homes, where foster home services are designed to be adult people to be like your "mother and father". I know that the people I'm looking for are not going to be my mother, or my father. But that these people may be at home for me, and take care of themselves." This is a tough girl, with a sore question – a girl asking for help to deal with the transition from a tough childhood to an adult life. Today, we have legislation on post-clearance protection up to 23 years. In particular, justification shall be provided. The best interests of the child shall be taken into account if a person terminates action when the child is 18 years old or rejects an application for follow-up protection. Retro-protection rounds were revised in 2011. It was assumed that young people who refuse post-closure protection should be contacted when they reach the age of 19, to see if they still believe the same thing. It is important that the children we take responsibility for, experience stability, and that they are listened to. Individual plans shall be drawn up for children in need of long-term and coordinated action or services. It should also include the day-to-day appearance of the day-to-day business after the day-to-day celebration of the great day of authority. The proposers request the retention of the right. This should be assessed in the review we now have under the Child Protection Act. This shall include an assessment of whether the whole of the Child Protection Act should be attached to the right. We look forward to this conclusion. I do not know the story or what assessments have been made in the case with which I started my article. Therefore, one should be careful to draw conclusions. What is important, however, is that today’s legislation provides help to prevent children from having to fear their 18th birthday. It is important that this is closely followed up in the municipalities, so that all children out there feel secure, even for the future after the day of authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1824	The Left takes with it an important initiative for a debate on post-preservation and initiatives to strengthen child-restraint protection. The representative proposal has been thoroughly and thoroughly reviewed. Proposalers describe today’s situation and challenges in the field of after-protection in a very good way. Young people receiving assistance from child protection services before the age of 18 are currently not entitled to child protection support after the age of 18 years, but child protection has a duty to assess the need for assistance and support from young people. Section 1-3 of the Children’s Protection Act states that measures taken before the child reaches the age of 18 may be maintained at the age of 23 if he/she agrees. If the young people say no, they have a right of withdrawal and can contact them after the connection with child protection has been formally concluded. If the child protection service terminates the measure at the age of 18, this shall be justified in the best interests of the child. Young people who are denied the right to apply for the protection of their children are entitled to apply for legal redress. From 2009 onwards, the law has been somewhat strengthened as regards the possibility of obtaining post-protection measures for young people with child protection experience, but it is weak that the burden of proof for justifying action lies with young people themselves. The proposers believe that the legal protection of young people and the possibility of posterity are too weak, and the Christian People's Party shares this assessment. Research supports increasing the likelihood of mastering the transition to adult life if young people are given good and proper post-protection measures. As pointed out in the proposal and the submission, the National Association for Children’s Protection, Children’s Protection Professionals, researchers and many young people with child protection experience believe that after-care is not working properly enough and that in practice many young people do not receive the support and assistance they need. Many have also not been able to build lasting relationships, which are an important foundation for mastering adult life. Proposalers are very concerned that after-protection is an area of child protection that is deprived, despite the fact that too many are well protected after-care as a prerequisite for success in adult life. The Christian People's Party also shares this concern. The Christian People's Party has programmed that we want to secure child protection children who need it, after protection up to 23 years. We agree with the rapporteurs that there is a need for a strong commitment to post-closure and that the provision of post-closure protection should also be able to be provided until young people are 25 years old. The Christian People's Party agrees that there is a need to strengthen the law. It is essential for young people with child protection experience to be guaranteed good child protection measures even after the age of 18 years, and this is not an institutionalised practice today. Proposalers believe that the Stortinget is responsible for ensuring this both by strengthening legislation and legislation and by ensuring that child protection is provided with sufficient resources and competences to carry out and ensure active post-protection work on the basis of the needs of young people and on the premises of young people. The proposers believe that the public should have special responsibility for young adults where the child protection service has been in the place of their parents. The Christian People's Party fully agrees and supports this. However, we do not support paragraph 1 of the draft representative on the right to action until the age of 25. With regard to the second proposal, on control and supervision, therefore, an overall committee asks that post-protection should be considered as a matter of country-wide supervision as soon as possible. There is clearly a need for both social and child protection services to build on a holistic approach to family, networking, housing and school to find a common understanding with young people, and for the youth to be actively involved in the provision of post-protection measures. In the view of the proposers, there is a need for an action plan with clear and concrete measures to strengthen the follow-up of young people with child protection experience after the age of authority. The majority of the population will assess the need for an action plan on post-hoc protection when the Storting is about to deal with the home announcement or the changes to the Child Protection Act. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for an action plan and therefore supports this proposal in its vote: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for the after-care of young people with child protection experience, emphasising the need for resources, interaction and professional soundness.’ I bring up the proposal that we have made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1846	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1849	It is a very good proposal from the Left on this matter. It is very decisive that young people with child protection experience will also be able to take good care of their child protection even after they reach the age of 18. We know that this is not the case today. Too many people don't get the help and support they need, and it can have serious consequences for their lives. I note that the majority in the Committee refers to the warning of the review of child protection laws and foster care, and on that basis one will not support the individual proposals contained in the proposal for a representative. The Central Party has assessed in particular what was proposal 1 of the draft representative, but which has now been submitted as proposal No. 2, in a loose proposal from the Left, to ask the government to strengthen the law so that young people with child protection measures are entitled to action up to the age of 25. We have discussed this over and over again, but we note that today the Left changed the proposal sound a little, where one asks for a case – that is, the government is asking for a proposal to strengthen the law so that we get this back to the Stortinget. In that case, the Central Party will support proposal No. 2, from the Left, and we take a position on the content of that proposal when and whether that proposal comes to the Storting. We will also support proposal No. 3, from the left, which was delivered today, to secure internal control of the municipalities. And we will also support the proposal made by the Christian People's Party in the vote to present an action plan for the protection of young people with child protection experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1856	The need for a safe haven, to feel valuable and to have someone who makes demands and expectations of one, because one is happy with you, doesn't know any age limit of 18 years. On the other hand, the current legal rules are reasonable bastantes, and it is very variable whether a person gets post-protection or not. There are considerable differences between municipalities when it comes to how good and long the follow-up is. Today, actions undertaken before the age of 18 can be maintained at the age of 23. However, there is rarely, and young people are too often down-prioritized because of too little time, capacity and large amount of business. Much good work is being done in the development of child protection. The country has a minister who willfully cares, and who puts real commitment to the job she does. And of course, I am pleased with the breakthrough left in the staging message about foster care. I am also pleased that a legislative selection should be reviewed throughout the law, and that the law on child protection should also be considered as a legal act, which the Left has previously proposed as a proposal in the Stortinget. I hope and believe that the outcome of the work is mandatory and leads to better child protection services, which also ensure that young people over the age of authority the after-protection they fortify. The left is inconsistent with the response given by Minister Horne to the Committee that it is not right to extend the age limit for post- protection to 25 years due to the fact that most 18 to 19-year-olds are receiving post- protection today. Horne thinks that we should rather strengthen the service we have for those between 18 and 23 years. It is and must then necessarily be a paradox for everyone in the room that society expects young people with experience in child protection, who generally have far worse networks than other young people, to deal with the transition to adult life in a shorter time and under far worse pretensions than others. Extracurricularism weakens the quality of life of the individual and costs society huge sums. If we give these young people a little more care and support, they also increase monthly chances of a good adult life. Unfortunately, we know that too many of the young people who have been subjected to care failure, who have taken advantage of child protection, are in a bad way. Where the public has taken over the parenthood, we have a great responsibility. The question is not whether we can afford this, but whether we can afford not to. So, fortunately, we know that there are many foster homes that take on voluntary lifelong responsibility. Emotions don't know the age limit either. The internal control of municipalities with child protection varies. A good internal control will help the individual municipality and provide good and systematic follow-up to youth. I am not sure how well the work is doing, as it is undoubtedly a problem with the capacity of child protection. The review by the Health Inspectorate of Post-Administrative Protection in 2009 revealed serious failure in the municipalities’ follow-up to child protection children over 18 years of age, and since 2009 the law has been somewhat strengthened when there is a possibility of post-closure, but it is a weakness that evidence to justify action lies with young people themselves. The ability to complain is also experienced by young people as difficult. I am therefore pleased that Horne writes in the letter to the Committee that the Ministry assesses whether the post-protection practices in the field of child protection should be the theme of its nationwide supervision, even though I might have hoped for an even stronger assurance that the government will work even more closely with the municipalities in order to ensure a good enforcement practice, in line with the law. Control is, after all, not the most important thing, but that young people get real help and care. It brings me to our last proposal, on an action plan for post-protection. When we know the randomity of post-protection practices, there is little doubt that there is a need for mandatory action in an action plan. I am therefore very pleased that the Christian People's Party is of the same opinion and supports the Left in this. There is a need to gather the various initiatives to strengthen post-protection and to ensure that work is coordinated and provides young people over 18 years of age with good and seamless services and a proper ‘backing’ into adult life. Finally, I would like to make the proposals from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1877	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1880	First, let me thank the proposers for raising an important issue, for strengthening child protection. We know that young people receiving after-care measures from child protection are a group that is particularly vulnerable and needs assistance to facilitate the transition to a self-employed adult life. For all of us who have been lucky and have had a family that has been able to follow us up at both holidays and birthdays, we know that this can be particularly difficult for those who are in child protection. Like the proposers, I am concerned that there is good protection for those young people who need it. As many people have been involved, a committee on child protection has now been set up. The legislative committee has been asked to see if the protection of children is an appropriate area for the retention of rights. The Committee shall present its investigation in mid-August 2016. I look forward to seeing what evaluations and proposals the legislative committee makes in this area. The investigation will be an important starting point both in our assessment and in the further debate. On the basis of the fact that the Swedish Children’s Protection Agency is going to enforce the right-to-restraint law, I will not decide on any right-to-responsive measures against young people aged 18-23 at this stage. Post-closure measures may be maintained until the age of 23 at present. Statistics show that most young people aged 18 to 20 are receiving post- protection measures. It is therefore uncertain whether increasing the age limit from 23 to 25 will result in a major change in practice. I therefore believe, like the Committee, that a more active use of post-closure protection between the ages of 18 and 23 is a better solution than a further extension of the scheme. I believe that today's law makes it possible to provide good protection. It is important that the Child Welfare Service informs well about the possibility of maintaining measures after the age of 18. The government's aim is that the follow-up of young people over 18 years of age should be a part of the work of child protection, and that other services should also focus on this. However, I have met many young people with experience in child protection who say that the follow-up of young people after 18 years is not good enough. I therefore agree with the proposers that there is a need to clarify the responsibilities between the Child Protection Service and Nav. I, in cooperation with the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, have entrusted the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and the Directorate for Labour and Welfare with the task of developing common guidelines for cooperation and sharing responsibilities between the Child Welfare Service and the Employment and Welfare Service. Together, we will work to achieve closer cooperation between different services in order to avoid children and young people becoming caste balls between public institutions. I am also concerned that the quality of assistance measures in the field of child protection is good. Children, young people and families who need it will get help that works. The Directorate has been entrusted with the task of developing a national plan for a long-term vocational development programme for relief measures. The Programme shall also cover actions for young people at the age of 18. Now in June, a three-year research project on relief measures will be completed. It will provide useful knowledge into this work. A three-year research mission has also recently been launched specifically to focus on the functioning of post-protection today and on current practices are suitable to help young people achieve a good adult life. It is a work I will follow carefully. We know that mastering school and education is a single factor that seems to be very important to success in adult life. Children with child protection experience are often more difficult at school than other children. They need a little longer time. Schooling and training for children in the field of child protection is therefore an important area for us. At the end of 2015, the Government shall provide a comprehensive communication on foster home care. We aim to mention the follow-up of young people even after the age of 18 in the foster home announcement. Under the Child Protection Act, municipalities have a statutory obligation to exercise internal control in the area of child protection. The purpose of the internal control is to ensure that the municipalities carry out the tasks assigned to them by law. It is the State Health Authority that has overall professional responsibility for the supervision of child protection, and it is also those who decide what should be the theme of nationwide supervision. But I can assure Stortinget that in the dialogue with the Health Authority, it will be discussed whether it is appropriate to exercise better supervision against the protection of the individual municipality. In the light of these initiatives mentioned here, I do not see the need to draw up a specific action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1910	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1914	The Council of State stated that schooling is an important part of good aftercare. Research shows that child-restraint children often need longer time to complete the education cycle — they often succeed in doing so, when it is facilitated. The government announces a demand for school support measures, including: introduction of the school manager. Then the Workers' Party has asked questions as to whether those requirements should also apply to ideal and private child protection institutions. In response to the BLD, we are encouraged to incorporate requirements for school support measures in the institutions, that there is an offer to take part in competence measures developed, and that there is now work to incorporate such requirements into the procurement contracts. I ask the Council of State, when does the Council of State expect it to be in place? Does the Council expect that it will be possible to impose a school manager on non-profit institutions and private institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1921	I am very pleased that the representative addresses this important issue. Child protection has repeatedly been criticised, among others. from the National Audit Office, because children’s education has not been a priority task. I am very pleased that the government – when it joined – was able to put an extra bet on this in 2014, which was continued in 2015. From the autumn of 2014, all state institutions now have a school manager. There is also something that is being put in place as a professional criterion for raising the quality of the tenders to be submitted in a short time. We also work with a supervisor who will be in place from the fall of the year. A report has just been issued to show that those working in child protection have less expectations for children in child protection than the school has — something that is not good. That is why I am pleased that the Directorate has now had 19 regional dialogue conferences, together with both schoolwork and child protection, to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1928	In a note that the Christian People's Party chose not to go into, the majority says that: ‘knows that most young people between 18 and 20 years of age receive post- protection measures and believe that a more active use within this age group would be a better solution than a further extension of the scheme’. Then you refer to some state councillor Horne mentioned in his letter of reply. What I need to know is whether it should still be an after-career for those over 20 years of age – today you have an opportunity to get back protection up to 23 – and that this is not a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1940	The right to follow-up until you're 23 years old was strengthened a few years ago. It is an important signal that this room has given to those who work in the municipalities, to follow up on those young people who need post-care after they have reached the age of 18 years – and there is a requirement here, up to 23 years of age. We see that there are weaknesses here as it is important that the municipalities follow up further. Having a good cooperation with Nav has made more of a point of importance in this work, and we get a report in June, where we have seen how this work works. Today, a youth can refuse to accept post-closure protection after 18 years of age. Perhaps the youth is in a situation where he or she does not want after protection, but at the same time it is important that child protection follows up and can contact in a short time to ask: Are you sure about this, or do you want offers anyway? The active follow-up of this youth by the protection of children in the municipalities and the provision he/she requires will be important for future follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1947	I thank you for the way in which the Council of State has access to the matter. I think it's important that we focus on child protection in the future. If we're going to expand some of the offers, it requires competence. I would like to ask the Council to assess whether there is enough competence in child protection, and whether the competences of child protection are specific enough to provide good after-care measures for the age group we are now talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1952	It was a difficult question to answer. Municipal Child Protection has been strengthened in recent years. There's an escalation that the previous government started. It is important that there is good competence among those who work there, and there are also places in several higher education institutions to ensure that you can receive training and have skills. We see that there has been little use of these places, and we now have to look at how we can help and help those who work in municipal child protection to gain their skills. However, it is important that local child protection – because things are happening outside the municipalities – also provides funds and time for empowerment outside the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1957	I agree with the Council of State that it is important to set aside both resources and time for good child protection in the municipalities, but in last year's budget, the Council of State had to collect funds from other child protection posts in order to adjust pay for the earmarked posts located there. How will the Council of State ensure that funds are available both for increased capacity in municipal child protection and for the competence that the Council of State so clearly states is necessary to increase municipal child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1962	I believe that over the last few years, there has been a strengthening of the competence of those who work in municipal child protection, but that is probably something we can work on further. It's going to be a budget question. But there will also be an important area of community child protection, because municipalities have a separate responsibility to ensure that they follow up the obligations of municipal child protection. I believe that the grips that this government has taken on child protection, while we have now announced that we are going to launch a pilot project to give more municipalities greater professional and financial responsibility, will also be an important contribution to increasing the competence of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1967	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1983	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e1990	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Workers' Party who are promoting this proposal on quality in the crisis centre offer. This is a very important theme, and the proposal testifies to a commendable commitment by these representatives. As the rapporteur on the subject, I would like to explain the background and content of the proposal and the Committee's views and position before, as the Christian People's Party's representative in the Committee, I present the views of the Christian People's Party. The other parties shall make their views known. The responsibility for the crisis centre offer was transferred to the municipalities from 2010, and the Stortinget agreed at the same time that the crisis centre offer should be a statutory task for Norwegian municipalities. The Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, has carried out an evaluation of the implementation of the Emergency Centre Act by municipalities, following a mandate from the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs. The mission was to assess whether the crisis centre offer in the municipalities has developed in line with the law’s requirements after the introduction of the crisis centre law. The main conclusion of the evaluation is that most municipalities now contribute to the financing of a crisis facility for both men and women, as required by law. NOVA writes in its report that the main picture is that municipalities are seeking to meet the requirements of the Crisis Centre Act by taking over or connecting to existing crisis centres. At the same time, the evaluation shows challenges and objectives that do not appear to have been achieved. Reference is made to challenges related to the provision of services by municipalities to groups with additional problems, that municipalities are not in the process of coordinating relief measures for victims in a coherent chain of action, and that the responsibilities of the re-establishment phase are unclear. The evaluation also shows that many municipalities lack action plans to work against violence in close relationships. Information on crisis centres is also missing. This is the background for the proposals discussed in this setting. Proposalers are committed to ensuring the quality of the crisis centre offer, to be provided in all municipalities of the country, for all citizens, and promote 18 proposals to strengthen supply across the country. In its letter of reply, the Council of State points out that the work on evaluating the recommendations of the evaluation report, presented on 2 February of this year, has started but has not been completed. On this basis, the Council of State gives its preliminary assessments and comments on the proposals. In the opinion, the Committee notes that we share the intentions of the proposers to ensure good content and quality in the crisis centre offer in all municipalities of the country, for all citizens. The Committee concludes that the draft representative is annexed to the Minutes. The Labour Party supports 14 proposals in the vote. For the Christian People’s Party, it is important to point out that the NOVA evaluation report shows that there are a number of challenges and objectives that have not been achieved within today’s crisis centre offer. These are deficiencies and needs that need to be corrected and followed up. When the Council of State in its letter of reply informs us that she has started to evaluate the report's recommendations, we in the Christian People's Party welcome that the government will come to Stortinget with proposals on how to follow up the report once these assessments have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2011	The representative proposal contains 18 proposals aimed at improving the quality and content of crisis response services across the country. Not all of the proposals are maintained, as a few are already running, but I am addressing a total of 14 proposals. Since 2010, when the crisis centre offer became a statutory task for Norwegian municipalities, and the municipalities established it, it is now time to look at just the quality and content. NOVA has evaluated how the municipalities have carried out the task, and it turns out that there is a lot that has become good, and a lot that is well cared for. There are many municipalities that have done a good job to get a better offer, but the evaluation also shows that it is a way to go before we are in the finish line and have an offer that works the way we want to. The Labour Party therefore believes that we should not wait to take action. We should launch what the report points to as shortcomings and challenges. The evaluation shows that there are challenges and objectives that have not been met, in particular as regards additional problem groups, the coordination of relief measures for victims of violence and the sharing of responsibilities in the re-establishment phase. Many municipalities also lack action plans to fight violence in close relationships and lack information on the crisis centre offer. I'll comment on some of the suggestions we're considering. With regard to the competence of children in crisis centres, it is now the right to do so. State Council Horne answers in her letter that it is important to hold the competence, but she is skeptical about making demands in the law about this. It is true that there are many who have good experience and good real skills, and that too rigid a requirement can help to make recruitment difficult in parts of the country. However, we believe that it can be circumvented by allowing exceptions where one can document the knowledge. At least every job will be assessed on that basis. The Labour Party believes that there are so many children involved in crisis centres cases that we need to ensure that they are kept as well as possible. Children in crisis need a safe everyday framework. Many are torn up from the used environment in school and kindergarten. It's important that the kids keep going either there or somewhere in the time they're at the center. There is a right that the child has, but that is not always fulfilled by the municipalities. Feedback from the municipalities shows that they do not always facilitate it. Therefore, we will clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities in that field. The evaluation also showed that those at risk of violence with additional problems are not well cared for, as I had to say. It is good that the Council of State is also concerned about this, because it is a difficult and comprehensive field that needs to be looked at in order to obtain different solutions and different models. Our proposal is to find out just different models to get a better offer, which we believe should be done now. There is reason to point out that not all municipalities have action plans against violence in close relationships. Cities like Skien and Larvik and many more have good plans. We believe that we have encouraged very many times from this pulpit that this work is done. The municipalities have not done so, and we believe that this should be done. Violence in close relationships is both a social problem and a health problem, and it should be clear that municipalities have plans for the responsibility they actually have to prevent. We believe that we have encouraged long enough, and that the imposition should now come. As regards requirements for municipalities for their own social action plans, the same arguments apply. Many municipalities have done the job. They have plans, but many victims of violence need extensive assistance after staying at the centre. The way forward must be clear to avoid going back to the perpetrator of the violence. We also encourage the launch of research that can follow the development of the supply of time. I do not deal with all the 14 proposals, but we believe that implementing what the NOVA report has proposed from measures where the shoe prints will help improve the offer. We believe that the wait-and-see attitude outlined by the Council of State is not necessary and not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2039	The representative, Sonja Mandt, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2042	A crisis centre shall be a temporary place of residence, a safe haven for people experiencing violence in close relationships. In 2010, the offer was legalised, and an evaluation of the offer has now been carried out in the municipalities. This evaluation is largely based on this proposal for a representative. The Council of State has pointed out in its statement that she has started work on evaluating the report and how it should be followed up. It is important when we are working on this law to also remember another major issue that is currently going on in the Storting, namely the municipal reform and its content. If we are to have a local government sector that is given the opportunity to find the good solutions for its citizens, and if we are to move tasks closer to our citizens, we do not have to control the details too much. If we set too detailed plans for how to solve a problem, we can lose the local good solutions on the way. That being said, it is important that our municipalities follow up adults and children who experience their home becoming a war zone, in a high-quality and coordinated way. The crisis centre should be a short-term location – a transition from the unsafe to the safe. Here we know that there are great challenges in our municipalities. In several places it is easy to get into the crisis center, but getting help to rebuild and move on in life is more complicated. In the worst cases, this leads to someone going back to a violent spouse. It feels more secure than going for a scary time – without housing, work and your own finances. It has created its own social housing strategy, Housing for Welfare, and allocated more money to housing for disadvantaged people, but it also requires a will in municipalities to coordinate their services. Children have their own rights and need special follow-up. State Council Horne says in her letter of reply that she is concerned about the number of children in crisis centres and has asked Bufdir to go through the offer to children at crisis centres more closely, including the children's right to help from other services. It's important that children are seen especially. Although the officer who is present chooses to go home to a violent spouse, this is not a choice he or she can immediately make on behalf of his children. It is important to remember that the Supreme Court has equated children growing up with family violence, being directly exposed to violence. The right of children to grow up without violence is and shall be strong and must be followed up. The evaluation of the law raises the question of travel to the crisis centres. I myself come from a municipality that cooperates on a crisis centre offer in Rome. Here we have built a new and modern crisis centre, of which we are very proud. Nittedal had not been able to do this alone. The route will be a little longer, but we have a modern crisis center with good security to offer those who need it. In fact, some people also think it's okay to get away a little bit when they run away from violence and assault. Of course, with longer travel, it becomes even more important to make your stay as short as possible in order to normalize your family's daily lives. Again, good cooperation between the municipality and the centre is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2065	I shouldn't be that long. We are not in the committee, but this proposal from the Labour Party seems to me to be a very important proposal. Powered in close relationships is a major societal problem and a major health problem, and there are a number of proposals to strengthen the quality of supply. It is not long since this was a legal task for Norwegian municipalities to offer. I think it's going to be problematic in terms of municipality size, but this is typically an offer that it's really nice to be able to work together on. The central party will vote for the minority proposals from the Labour Party that are in the configuration, and I just wanted to report it from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2072	I would like to begin by commending the representatives for their very good and well-worked proposals in a very important area. I would also like to say from this speaker that SV will support all the proposals, and we welcome them. In SV, we are infinitely proud of the work done at the crisis centres over the whole country. We are impressed by the efforts behind the construction of crisis centres, where, to a large extent, voluntary forces and women's movement have taken on the task of ensuring violent protection. Not least, I am pleased with the broad and comprehensive environment of competence that exists in Norway in the field of violence in close relations. Violence in close relationships is a major social problem that can affect us all, and that affects women in particular. When violence affects women, it also affects children to a large extent. Because violence is such a big social problem, and because people are to have the right to a life of freedom without violence and with protection from being subjected to violence, we are to legislate on the right to an offer of crisis centres. I'm very happy about that, too. The proposals we are considering today point to the absolutely necessary steps for targeted action, especially against children, in order to increase the quality of the offer offered by the crisis centres today. We look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with answers to the challenges contained in the NOVA report, but we see no need to wait for action – this is because we believe that the work needs to be started, the knowledge is there, and the work should be started now. It is not new that many crisis centres are not well organised for people with disabilities – or, for that matter, for additional problems. It is not new that children are in a crisis centre, and that a comprehensive child perspective and competence are necessary in order to provide children with adequate care in such a difficult and demanding situation. It is not new that many municipalities lack action plans against violence in close relationships. It's serious, because everyone lives in a municipality, but not all municipalities are aware of their responsibilities by recognizing that violence is a problem in their own community as well. Not all municipalities are conscious of their responsibility for the fact that coordinated, preventive and targeted efforts can improve childhood, provide violent security and, in fact, also save lives. That is why I shall conclude by thanking you once again for all the necessary, important and thorough proposals. I hope they get a majority, so that you can move on to securing violent people in our country and not least increase the quality of the important and good work done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2085	I would like to thank the proposers for an important commitment to a very important topic. Crisis centres are an important part of the work against violence in close relationships. The Crisis Centres Act was an important milestone in strengthening the provision of assistance to those at risk of violence in an acute crisis. I can assure the proposers that the government is very concerned about ensuring good content and quality in the crisis centre offer. I am therefore pleased that the evaluation of the crisis centre offer, which I myself have repeatedly requested in the opposition and in the position, shows that we are on the right track. Nevertheless, the evaluation points to clear challenges. The users of crisis centres in Norway are satisfied with the assistance they receive and the provision of children has improved. The competence of staff at the crisis centres has improved. The majority of centres now have their own children’s professional responsibility, and most employees at the centres have higher education. There is evidence of increased professionalisation. Most municipalities now have a crisis centre offer for men. It was far from the case before the law. However, there are clear gaps in how municipalities care for violent men and their accompanying children. The same applies to the offer to those at risk of violence with drug problems or serious mental health problems. The offer at many centres is also not universally designed. Local authorities lack action plans and are not in the process of coordinating relief measures. Many of the proposals under consideration today involve a stronger state regulation of the content and quality of the crisis centre offer, as well as child-care skills at crisis centres. These are proposals I will consider in depth against other alternatives, such as the preparation of circulars or professional guides. Increased state detail management could limit municipal variation and weaken municipal autonomy. To ensure the safety of the users of the crisis centre offer, I consider it so fundamental that I have commissioned Bufdir to prepare a regulation on physical security of the premises. The Directorate is reviewing the supply of children at crisis centres, including children’s rights to help with other services. This will be an important basis for further developing the provision of children in crisis centres. I would like to stress that we are following closely the development of the crisis centre offer both in terms of quality and content, and in terms of geographical coverage of the offer. Some small crisis centres have been closed since the law came into force, but the number of fixed sites on a national basis has increased. Larger and more robust centres can help improve the quality of the offer. It is the responsibility of municipalities to coordinate measures between the crisis centre and other services. The law is in place, but we know that good coordination is difficult to put into practice. Local action plans against violence in close relationships can be a useful tool to ensure coordinated assistance for victims of violence. I would encourage several municipalities to draw up action plans, but it should nevertheless be up to each municipality to assess the need for an action plan. The State should not control in detail the tools to be used by municipalities in their work. As regards the physical standard of some crisis centres, improvements are needed. However, after visiting a number of crisis centres in recent years, I am optimistic. Many municipalities have, through good cooperation, succeeded in establishing good offers within the current budgetary framework. I am concerned that the crisis centre offer for additional vulnerable groups is not good enough. Municipalities have a responsibility to provide all persons with close relations with an offer of protection against violence, regardless of additional issues. There is a need to consider further how the State can assist municipalities in meeting these challenges. Finally, I would like to point out that it is County that supervises how municipalities follow up the crisis centre law. I will carry out an assessment of how supervision works and, if necessary, whether it needs to be strengthened. A good offer of crisis centres is crucial for families in crisis living with violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2114	Both children who are exposed to power and children who are witnesses to power are in our crisis centers. We have long been political about the fact that children are exposed to power, and the fact that children are witnesses to power is as equal, just as the representative from the Right stressed in his post. In Stortinget on 10 June, the Minister of Justice said in the debate on the differentiation of deadlines for leaving children's homes that a distinction must be made between children who are exposed to power and children who are witnesses to power. I am also concerned about this in the debate on crisis centres, because this is not related to what we know about the damage that these young people have been exposed to. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Children whether she agrees with the Labour Party that one has to impose research and the Supreme Court judgment to which the representative Tønder referred in his statement, and that one does not distinguish between children who are witnesses to power and children who are exposed to power. Or does the Minister for Children agree with the Minister for Justice that there is a difference here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2122	Research shows that children do as much harm to witness violence as to be subjected to violence. That it is important to have competence to also see the children who live with violence is a theme I have addressed in the meetings I have had with people who work closely with children. That is why I am very pleased that the competence of the crisis centres and the assistance they receive from their children in crisis centres has improved in recent years. I've also met a child who says, "Why do I have to move?" It's been a hunch for me to work against families in conflict. That is why we have also strengthened family protection. It's important to strengthen the crisis centre offer, that's something we need to take an extra look at. It is also important that crisis centres look at alerting police and child protection if children are at risk of violence if one of their parents moves back to a violent perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2129	I am very pleased with the answer – very pleased with the answer that the Minister for Children is now giving. It underlines what I hope, that we are at least some of them saying that children who are witnesses to power are doing the same harm as children who are exposed to power. It was important for me to get an answer, because the Minister of Justice caused great confusion about the previous week. The next question I want to ask is about the local action plans. I think some of us are positive that municipalities have local action plans. I would just like to say that the municipalities would prepare them, and then I hear the Council of State say in its statement that such local action plans can be positive. Can the Council of State give me an example of when it would not be wise for a municipality to have a local action plan against violence in close relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2136	In my post I said quite clearly that I encourage all municipalities to have action plans against violence in close relationships. Violence is one of the major challenges we face today, and it is important that municipalities have plans for this and also plans for cooperation with other agencies and other services that this affects. It is not legal for municipalities to have these action plans, and we need to look at how we can manage to stimulate municipalities to have these plans. But there's a limit to how much we're going to go in and control the municipalities, so what I've been content to say is that I encourage the municipalities to create action plans with what's an important theme for their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2143	I also thank you for that answer. I think we're different here. I think there are some things in society that are more important than others, and is the one task that I think should be imposed on the municipalities, is to draw up exactly these plans. Unfortunately, we see that there are many municipalities that take, but not all. The last question I have is our proposal on the need for pediatric competence. Here I will follow up on the post of the representative Sonja Mandt, because I wonder how a regulation that says that it should be a general rule that we have child-disciplinary competence in the crisis centres can be rigid as long as one has an exception to it. Can the Council of State explain what might be rigid in that there is a general rule that it should be added with child-disciplinary competence at crisis centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2150	The Crisis Centres Act requires staff at crisis centres to have the competence to deal with those arriving there. The law also requires municipalities to ensure that employees take good care of their children and their needs. I am very pleased that many of the employees now have a higher level of competence, and that all of them, most of them in crisis centres, have child-care skills. I know that it is also important to ensure that staff at crisis centres have child-care skills, and have said in my reply to the Committee that I will consider in detail the proposal to draw up a regulation on that requirement of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2157	Governments put great emphasis on municipal freedom in their contribution. On this issue, the freedom of local authorities can be challenged against the individual's freedom to live without violence and with protection. My question is: if the Council of State does not want to oblige municipalities to draw up municipal action plans in the field, how will the Council of State ensure that municipalities actually work against violence in close relations, in terms of raising their competences, preventing and protecting victims of violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2167	The fact that we were given the Crisis Centre Act in 2010 was part of and strengthen the responsibility of municipalities to have an offer to all those who are exposed to violence in close relations outside the municipalities. Most municipalities have now received a better offer than they had before, but at the same time the evaluation shows that there are challenges. It is also important that the County supervises the compliance of municipalities with the Crisis Centre Act, and I have said in my post that we need to look at how we can strengthen that supervision. There is no requirement in the law to have an action plan, but I want to encourage municipalities to make action plans. They can also learn from each other, because there are many municipalities that have made good action plans. This is something we have to work with – we have to look at how we can strengthen this. But until now, I have not considered going in and legislating the municipalities to make action plans. It must also be up to each municipality to see that this is an important work and that politicians who are out in the municipalities will have an action plan in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2174	I thank you for your answer. When Amnesty International a few years ago worked on a campaign against violence in close relationships, it was remarkable how many municipalities did not respond if they had an offer for their people. In fact, municipalities also claimed that this was not a problem in their community. Then I get worried when the Council of State points back to actions that have been taken, and promises that we have been put in place, and not to new measures or activities to come in the future. That is why I wonder: how is the Council of State to make sure that the municipalities recognise the problem and grasp it in their communities, so that those who are exposed to violence can have a safer life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2181	The Crisis Centre Act, which says that it is a task for municipalities to have an offer, is also involved and ensures that municipalities take this work seriously. The government has also promoted a separate action plan for children who are victims of violence and abuse. Here are many measures that we as state authorities have to work with municipalities about. But it is also the case that there is a law in place, and it is important that the municipalities follow up the obligation they have to have an offer to anyone who is subjected to violence and abuse. Most municipalities today. Then we have an evaluation that points out that the municipalities have received a better offer than they had before, but it also points to several challenges, and I have to come back to how to follow up the evaluation that shows that we have challenges in the municipalities. There are municipal elections for the autumn, and I would encourage all municipal politicians to put violence in close contact with the agenda and make sure that they get action plans out in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2188	Governments show an affordable initiative in crisis centres, but there is little willingness to take action. Not even the legal requirement to have action plans in municipalities wants to go further. The most important thing must be to prevent people from ending up in crisis centres. What are the main measures taken by the Council of State to prevent people from entering crisis centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2196	I thank you for the question. One of the themes I'm really burning for is to bet on a good family protection. That is why the government has also had a historic commitment to family protection in the last year. This means that family protection today can help more families who are in crisis, who have a high conflict, and where there is a risk of violence, but at the same time we can also work more preventively. It is an important work to ensure that parents can be good parents and that there is no violence. At the same time, we also need measures and assistance for those women, children and men who are subjected to violence, so that they get the help and follow-up they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2203	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2208	I would like to start by thanking Case Spokesman Bekkevold for a good report and good treatment of the matter. I am very pleased that we are some that these are important proposals, and that these are the right actions. We would of course wish that more people had supported us in doing what we propose, but we expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget at a later date. Powered in close relationships is not just a social problem; it's gross crime. This is why the Labour Party is working across committees on this issue – me from the Justice Committee, Sonja Mandt from the Family and Culture Committee and others from relevant committees. I'm a little worried about the coordination between the Minister of Children and the Minister of Justice when I hear the answer I get from the Council of State on a line, which is a very good answer when it comes to how we view children who are exposed to power. Here I think the Minister for the Child must take a serious speech with the Minister of Justice, because the Councils of State must speak the same language. I am very pleased that the representative Mette Tønder stressed the same in his statement, that children who are exposed to power become equal to children who are witnesses to power. Then we've settled it. Strengthening crisis centre provision is very important. I'm very busy talking about Telemark's crisis center a little bit. We have a very good crisis center in Telemark. They have a new, beautiful building and have a good host municipality model, where the municipalities of Telemark are involved. Because what's important to remember is that it's not just the municipality that has the crisis center, that's responsible for the crisis centre supply, it has all the municipalities. Now we see that the crisis centre in Telemark has a surplus, which means that they might want to put in place one or two transitional buildings themselves. It was today's advertising for the Telemark crisis center! For the local action plans: there is no doubt that there is something very busy about the Labour Party. I think having such local action plans is one of the best things to do to prevent. Family protection is important, but a lot should have happened before you had to visit the family protection office. I have seen in municipalities like Skien, or my municipality of residence, Tokke, which has started working on local action plans, that one collects the etats in this way. Aware of the vocabulary holder and local politicians much more than when you don't have such a plan. So we all know that it doesn't help with plans if they don't follow up. But I should only be so very fond that if there was one thing we could become a few about today, it was that all the political parties went into the municipal election campaign and said: If we get the spokesman, we should at least make sure that there is a local action plan in this municipality – as long as the council is not willing to say that there should be a requirement for all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2223	I only allow myself to draw two strands from the change of lines with the Council of State, where, on the one hand, it can be said, on the one hand, that in a previous debate the Minister of Justice has raised the issue, not the government's coordinated view, but that, on the other hand, the Council of State in this debate has stated that children who are witnesses to violence are at least as hard hit as children who are directly exposed to physical violence. What then hangs in the loose air is how well this work is actually coordinated by the government, all the time it comes cracking signals from state councils on such important questions, which should have been easy to clear out of the way. So until the opinion that Horne has repeatedly joined in this debate, that drawing up local action plans against violence in close relations must be up to the municipalities themselves. It sounds kind of lenient, but here it almost speaks as a sacred principle. Why is it so important that in this particular case it should be up to the municipalities themselves to decide? I have heard concrete examples of municipalities that have recently implemented an action plan against violence in close relationships, which have caught up with children who may have been abused, or at least care failure, thanks to the awareness of those who work up against children, and not least the better practice of how to deal with such situations. Municipalities that do not do this are at risk of losing this opportunity to capture children who are hurting. So we all know that the government's own party does not hesitate to use state-pointing fingers towards the municipalities in matters that are important to them, among other things. care for the elderly. According to the Progress Party, today's care for the elderly is to be replaced by a state care for the elderly. Why do you do that in this field? Yes, because it is important for the Progress Party. Then I am tempted to ask: Why is it not as important for the Progress Party to state that this is something we actually expect the municipalities to do? I understand that the Council of State wants to buy time, but we could have expected a higher level of effort in this area. For the children who are hit by this, it's very urgent, and the time the council wants to buy it, it's not certain that these kids have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2248	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2255	Today we're going to deal with Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Many believe that it is probably not the big day for the FM network and for local radios, in view of the diversity and revitalisation of local radios. Report. St. 24 Framework conditions for local radio in connection with the digitisation of the radio medium are a consequence of the decision of Notifying. St. 8 for 2010–2011, the digital radio message, taken by a large majority in Stortinget. The communication to be addressed today proposes the local radio concessions to be digitised at the same time as the nation-wide radio operators, the framework conditions for the local radio sector in DAB and the framework conditions for local radios continuing on the FM network. Digitalisation of the radio medium is planned to take place regionally in 2017 and progressively, which has worked within other media, such as TV. The digital radio message was about digitisation of the nationwide radio network, and that the smallest local radio operators would initially have the opportunity to continue broadcasting on the FM network after the adopted date of closure – this because a transition would be economically demanding for a number of less resource-intensive local radios, which would take time to adapt to a technology shift, a reason I think is important to take care of. In practice, the draft concession award proposal for the digital radio message involves a clean registration system. The scheme has been used for the award of the content concession in the Riksbloken since 2011. The Committee does not wish the digitisation to have a negative impact on the more economically weak local radios and notes that several hearing bodies have expressed the need for financial support for a transition. In particular in the districts, the deployment of the DAB network may result in significant costs for the actors, which may make digitisation more difficult. But it turns out that it can also be a challenge for the listeners. Nordlys has found examples of those falling outside the DAB coverage – in the Altevatn area and in Finnmark. There's a lot of white areas, which they're worried about. This is justified by the fact that it is irresponsible to cut off people’s opportunities – not least in Finnmark – to be able to hear the weather forecast. It pairs the NRK quite well: here you might need to consider special measures. After I understand from the paper, it doesn't reassure those who don't get DAB coverage. But they're positive and they say: we turn over on Finnish radio, at least we get our Finnish skills refreshed. That's how they have it in Finnmark. Many of us who live in Oslo think it's a shame that we lose our local radio here, on the FM network. The Committee also points out that the government is committed to earmarking about half of the allocation to the current local broadcasting support scheme for such purposes until the digitisation of the local radio sector has reached a satisfactory level. The Committee also supports the proposal in the Communication to extend the concessions for local radio operators continuing on the FM network by five years, in order to allow local radios to use their resources for digitisation rather than on a new analogue broadcasting application round. I have thought – and I want – that local radio concessionaries who have coverage in these areas, who own and operate their FM networks at no cost to the public, should be allowed to continue on the FM network. The progress party has a proud past in the case of Norwegian local radio and the resolution of the NRK monopoly. It was the former Right-Registration, with State Councillor Lars Roar Langslet, who stood for this. Over 30 years later, it should not be that, as rapporteur on this matter, I should not be in favour of mentioning that this could act as a raw party for small local radios in competition against the big ones, when we shut down the FM network, and where the majority [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2278	The number is out. That's the representative of Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2281	We assume that there is an overall government that has put forward, and is behind, this big message. But we note, both from comments from the Progress Party and from the rapporteur's presentation here in the Chamber, that some may be a little further behind than others. This is a matter of long history. The digital radio communication set out criteria for digitising the national radio network in 2017 or 2019. It was a broad majority on the Stortinget that joined the criteria in 2011. The government has now reviewed these criteria and concluded that the criteria for digitising the national radio network from 2017 are met. We record that there have been claims that the conditions have not been met, but we assume that the government has made the necessary assessments and quality assurance before promoting this notification. This means that FM broadcasts from nationwide radio operators — Radio Norway, P4 and NRK — can end after a regional plan during 2017. The Government considers that all commercial local radio concessions with significant coverage in the four largest cities should not be re-exposed or extended at the end of the current concession period. We believe that the closure of commercial local radio in the big cities must be coordinated with the regional closure of the nationwide commercial channels. That is why we have promoted a loose proposal in which we ask the government to take the initiative to ensure such coordination and to extend concessions in line with this, where necessary. I am thus promoting that proposal. The Committee notes, then, that a ban on non-commercial niche radios with coverage in these areas is proposed, with a view to forwarding content from other actors, or their content with other actors. In this context, the Committee calls for a review of the possibility for media surveillance to grant derogations from this ban in exceptional cases, in order to ensure, in particular, the provision of small niche local radios. The Committee then pointed out that the digital radio communication concerned digitisation of the nationwide radio network, and that the smallest local radio operators would initially have the opportunity to continue broadcasting on the FM network after the adopted date of closure – this because a transition would be economically demanding for a number of less resource-intensive local radios that would need some time to adapt to a technology shift. It is of the opinion that it is an important consideration to be taken into account. Therefore, we are pleased that it is proposed that the concession be extended by five years for these, but also that the government wants to earmark a share of the media surveillance funds for local broadcasting, precisely to help the smallest local radios into digitisation. So Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal in the setting where we believe the intentions can be good. We believe that this is a good basis for assessing whether the proposed aid scheme is large enough. But we point out that we believe that this is a budgetary question and that it is a question that needs to be addressed in the context of the submission of the State budget. At least we believe that we have a responsibility to contribute to the ability of the smallest local radios – a real opportunity – to get into the digital age. Similarly, we believe that it is important to ensure that there is guaranteed space in the DAB network for small, non-commercial stations. Therefore, we are clear from the committee that the non-commercial local radios must be secured in the local radio block, and we believe – as we write in the setting – that the local radio block should primarily be reserved for those who primarily operate local radio. We therefore support the government's view that this can be assessed in a regulated way in the context of the award of local radio block works. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting. I am pleased that a joint committee is presenting a common position, and that with this we are taking a new step into the modernisation of the radio supply to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2300	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2303	Once again, in the family and cultural committee, we have a case to deal with where we are challenged by digital development, and need to adapt our policies, our laws and regulations to a new reality. Sometimes we clearly know what's going on, and sometimes both we and the actors are striving to figure out what's going to be best in tomorrow's society. This case is thus slightly different, as it is a consequence of choices made by magnification before us. Once the government has followed up the previous decision on the transition from FM to DAB by clarifying the time of the closure of the national FM network, there is a need for other clarifications – therefore the framework conditions for local radio in connection with the digitisation of the radio medium. It has been important for the government to take more assumptions into account when developing new framework conditions. Firstly, the many small nearby radios around the country must be given the opportunity to adapt to the change that is now taking place. Nor is it any big news to them that this is happening, it was just a matter of what year it was going to happen. However, it is natural that these radios need some more time, and will have good help with some transitional support to make the necessary changes. That is taken care of in the matter. Secondly, there must also be a combination of carrots and a small pressure to get everyone to be involved in the change that is now happening. It is also taken care of in the case. Some of the actors in the big cities, who have to shut down their FM networks at the same time as the national ones, have reacted that they are no longer allowed to operate the FM facilities they own. However, it is not new that national policy choices relating to existing solutions of actors are adopted. This will be the case in most policy areas. Once again, I have to remind you that this is not a news that is coming up now, but a decision that you have been able to deal with from 2011 and with the time horizon until 2017 or 2019. That's why most of the stations involved are already on DAB and/or online with their broadcasts. The desire to provide as much equal conditions as possible for players competing for both listeners and support players in the same area is the background for locals to also have to follow the transition to DAB. That's a good solution. The fact that the large cities implemented are switched to digital communication will also be a good driver for the other nearby radios around the country. The DAB network, both nationally and regionally, will provide listeners with soundly qualitatively good broadcasts across the country. The coverage on the national network is already better than the FM network, and it is further expanded. In its examination, the Committee stressed the importance of good progress in the development of DAB in tunnels, so as not to disrupt consignments during driving. In addition to providing a good offer to the public, this will also have a road safety aspect. It is important to maintain a diversity of actors in the radio service. The transition to DAB will provide far greater opportunities for local radios to reach their entire region. There is room for many actors, and they will reach a wider audience through greater regional coverage. Now, when we give these radios the concession for FM broadcasts for five years, I hope that many people use time well to change and as early as possible become part of the new and good DAB network. Summing up, I have to say that the framework conditions we are now adopting give the near-radio actors in the big cities a fair and good solution and the other radios around the country a liberal and rough transition, with both good time and economic incentives. In the Chamber, a proposal has been put forward which clarifies the premise for the transition in the big cities. The local radios which have to keep their FM broadcasts running until national in the same region is closed. Concessions need to be adapted to this. I have understood that this has been the department's opinion all along, but since it is not clear enough in the matter, it is of course quite curative to stress this. The right supports this proposal. Nordics are quick and good at using new digital solutions and dolls. It's exciting. Today, we're going to make sure that all of these radioactive agents can reach all of these modern users. This is also an important step in terms of preparedness. It provides new opportunities for communication with the whole population when needed. So it's just to wait for what new and much better solution for radio listening that comes in the future. Nevertheless, it is enough digital today and requires a lot of capacity. While we're waiting, DAB is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2329	The treatment of this case is a follow-up to previous issues concerning the digitisation of radio and is therefore not a rematch on whether or not the FM band should be switched off. We welcome the transition to digital radio. I am referring to the fact that an overall committee assumes that the government has made the necessary assessments, not least as regards the criteria that may be in place before the closure of the FM band, and that the department has ensured the quality of these before the notification was submitted. That is also why the Christian People's Party will not support the two proposals from SV that have been promoted in the matter today. We assume that the department has done this assessment. The Christian People's Party has long prioritised the digitisation of radio. We've done that because digital radio gives listeners access to much more channels. Today, large parts of District Norway do not have access, and that means that people in the districts have a worse offer than people in the central districts. Thus, the development towards a digital radio will give us a more equivalent offer across the country. Then this message is meant to ensure that the smaller players, namely the local radios, continue to live well in the years to come. It's an offer that we're dedicated to caring for. Overall, I believe the message provides good solutions to precisely this. The consultation also showed a fairly large degree of agreement on the measures proposed, although there are individual points of disagreement. We believe it is positive that the government proposes to extend the concessions for local radio operators who continue on the FM network by five years, so that local radios can use their resources for digitisation rather than on a new call for applications for analogue broadcasting. We also support the repeal of the legislation on non-commercial local radio operators in areas where local radio operators are allowed to continue on the FM network so that they can improve their economy and have the opportunity to implement a technology shift. From our point of view, we have chosen to stress the importance of a good economic framework for the digitisation that local radio stations are now going through. We have noticed that the government will earmark about half of the appropriations for today's local broadcasting support scheme to support local radios in the transition to DAB until the digitalisation of the local radio sector has reached a satisfactory level. We are concerned that digitisation should not have a negative impact on the smaller local radios. Today's grants include: to grants to the associations, programme activities, projects of excellence and development projects. The funds are therefore important in order to enable the good and comprehensive offer offered around the country. So this isn't just about worry about whether there's enough funds, but when half of this pot is going to be used for a transitional benefit, that means half of what was supposed to go to, among other things. competence-building measures, now being lost. That's our concern. We're concerned about whether these important tasks can be maintained if half is earmarked, as the government suggests. For this reason, we have made a proposal to ask the government to assess whether the amount is sufficient and whether the aid scheme can be financed in a different way than using the local broadcasting support scheme, and to ask the government to promote the issue of the Storting in an appropriate way. One of the hearing bodies seemed to me to sum up this matter in a very good way: there are small local radios in this country that need a handshake from the authorities. For local radios which wish to participate in a forward-looking industry but which cannot lift a technology shift on their own, the authorities should assist with support schemes in a transitional period. This will help the individual local radio, but also the entire radio industry. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote, and I would also like to signal that we support the mentioned solution proposed by the Workers' Party which has been promoted in the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2355	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2358	The starting point for this case is that a broad majority of cases in 2011 adopted criteria and arrangements for digitisation of the radio sector. The central party broadly supports what the majority favours in today's case. Now, when a regional digitisation of the radio media from 2017, we, like the Committee, are concerned that the smallest radio operators need to be able to deal with this challenge and this transition in a sensible way. There is simply a time for some of the smallest to be able to adapt to the technology shift we're facing. It is therefore important that the smallest radio operators are also given the opportunity to continue broadcasting on the FM network after the adopted date of closure. The government's proposal to extend the FM network for local radio operators for five years is positive and part of the adaptation and conversion required by the smallest. The centre party has also noted that half of the allocation of today’s local broadcasting support scheme should be earmarked for the development of DAB networks for smaller players, but the centre party is enough, like the Christian People’s Party, to be concerned as to whether the tasks to which today’s funding goes can be harmed if half of the funds are to be earmarked for DAB. The centre party is therefore going to support the Christian People's Party's proposal to look at other funding methods as well. The central party also shares the majority’s view that DAB has to be deployed in tunnels as quickly as possible and, in principle, that radio stations available outside tunnels should also be available in the tunnels. It may be important for emergency reasons and also for the principle of equal treatment. A number of objections and examples of adverse outcomes have been raised during the debate on the transition to the DAB media, and the rapporteur referred to some unfortunate examples in his speech. I believe it is important that the time until 2017 is used well to facilitate the conversion that will take place, as well as to review and quality assurance the objections that have been raised both in the public and through the examination of this case. The centre party will also support the Workers' Party's loose proposals, which I now understand are supported by an overall committee, but we will not support SV's proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2371	I'm a DAB user, and I know history in this case well, to say it like that. I've been a little hesitant before, but I'm probably more serious in doubt now, and I want to go through it, justify it and simply reflect on the arguments both ways. In October of this year, the Media Department reported that four out of five demands had been met, but the listeners had not yet moved over. It wasn't over half that was on digital platforms. Now the number is 51 pst, so we're just going to go right over -- 51 pst. on digital platforms, not on DAB radio, but on DAB or on the mobile app, via the Get box, the iPad or the job machine. It's one of the reasons why it's really a good idea to shut down the FM network when, after all, it's still the most common way to listen to radio in Norway. Each political decision must hold water four years later, and especially when it comes to a market with a technology that develops as fast as radio. Are the premises and criteria we set for the closure of the FM network in 2011, equally true today? There's reason to ask questions about it. What we know is that strong and independent actors such as ICT Norway, with the digitisation of Norway as its mandate, are clockier in their talk of not doing so. We know a number of countries around us well to turn. The last week came a press release that indicated that Sweden is adjusting the course, in Denmark the situation is unclear, and in the United Kingdom the BBC has been ordered to broadcast on the FM network. We don't have a clear picture of what this has to say for consumers. How much does it cost an average family with two clock radios on the night table, one on the kitchen, one on the bathroom, one in the car and maybe one on the cabin to replace them? We know that the FM network has a nationwide coverage of over 90 pst, and that the requirement we made for DAB was not national coverage, but 90 pst. population coverage. What would it have to say for car sections, cabins and pig-grown strips? We do not know at least that it should be a long time for politicians to make technological choices on behalf of consumers and actors. Most of the big jumps for consumers come from the introduction of a new technology, and consumers quickly embrace it because it is superior and economically available. In this case, we're dealing with an accessible and inexpensive type of radio that we're trying to push on the rest of the consumers because the transition has been very slow. Simultaneously: DAB is highly enhanced, it offers an added value, multiple channels and good sound when a sound is present. I'm the last person who'll be at the head of a policy shift that's going to impose on our general programming NRK unexpected extra costs at a time when the media industry is facing perhaps the most challenging time. But we also know that there are smaller local radio channels that have invested, that they have put the soul into operating their own FM networks in a tough market, and that many of the actors are yelling and asking us to slow down, and that they are afraid that they will fall under too big, powerful media actors. We also know that there is no lack of experts both here in Norway and internationally who warn us that politicians must not control technology platforms with coercive forces in a world that is raging with guard, where we are discussing 5G before 4G is fully developed without a complete definition of what it is. We have a media day where we can click into our favorite radio program hours and days after it was sent, and right to it just when it suits us, where a number of radio channels from the world are a click away, and where very many do as I do the most, simply listen to the Internet radio, simply, and maybe will do the most in the future. Is it true, then, to bet so heavily on digitization based on a technology from the 1980s because we meant it before, and because the big media player wants to lose a lot of money on it? Because we know a good part of what I've been through here, and also because this is very insecure, as I've been taught, well SV to make two suggestions that might give better answers and give answers to some of the criticisms that have come, that were not as clear in 2011. One of the proposals is: ‘The government is asked to provide a systematic investigation through the criteria set for the closure of the FM network in 2017.’ The second proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to examine the proportion of the population listening to DAB radio specifically, not just digital platforms in general.’ It might be a good alternative to assume that it's okay, or it might be an even better option to double-check when there's considerable doubt, when many are skeptical, and when a number of countries around us don't choose to move as fast as we do. I'm taking up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2400	The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2403	A broad majority of cases joined the criteria for digitisation of the national radio network in 2011. On the basis of professional assessments by the National Communications Authority and the Media Authority, the government concluded on 16 April this year that the criteria have been met and that the national radio network can be digitised during 2017. Norway is thus the first country in the world to implement the technology change. Norway is the first for several reasons: firstly, the FM network is very expensive to operate in a long-term mountainous region with scattered housing patterns; secondly, in Norway, we have a radio market characterised by good competition, high innovation and high profitability. The radio medium is growing, and Norwegian media barometer numbers show that the Norwegian people have not heard so much on radio since 1994. However, one of the key assumptions has been that we have achieved unique cooperation on digitisation between all actors in the nationwide radio market. Here P4, Radio Norway and the NRK have come together. The fact that digitisation has been possible is also due to the trust between market actors and policy authorities. The digital radio communication established clear criteria and a clear plan for implementing the technology change. This has enabled actors to make large investments in confidence that Norwegian politicians keep their word. In a media reality where the radio media is challenged from music streaming, podcasting and other digital services, digitisation is a major investment in the radio media, and it shows that the market believes that radio will continue to be a very important medium in the future. In the digital radio communication, it was assumed that most and least local radio operators would have longer time to make the technology change, but that larger commercial local radios would make the technology change at the same time as Radio Norway and P4. Instead of specifying the categories of local radios to continue on FM, the digital radio communication made it possible for the Ministry to return to Stortinget in 2015. I am pleased that a large majority of the family and cultural committee have joined the call for proposals on the framework conditions for local radio in connection with the digitisation of the radio media, and that a large majority have thereby ensured that the latest political clarification for the technology shift in 2017 is in place. The technology change criteria are met. If they had not, all the concessions had to be renewed from 2017. Of a total of 238 local radios, only 23 channels – the metropolitan radios in the four largest cities – are not offered for extension in line with Stortingen’s 2011 decision. 22 of these 23 major urban radios are already transmitting on DAB today, at prices similar to those in the FM network. The last radio will also be able to send on the DAB network. Therefore, after the technology change has been completed, metropolitan radios release costs for double distribution. There are several advantages to the shift. In the FM network there is room for a handful of local radios in each area, while in DAB there will be space for between 15 and 20 local radios that transmit 24 hours a day in each region. The increased diversity of the network allows for significant liberalisation of the framework conditions for the local radio sector. Regular application rounds with so-called beauty contests are replaced by a single registration system. The content requirements imposed on the Authority have been deleted. This means removing barriers to establishment, less red tape, lower operating costs for the radios and that operators in the radio industry can have a full focus on doing what they are best at, creating good radio content. I stress that no local radio concessionaries are being deprived of anything good as a result of digitisation. In order to provide the local radio sector outside major cities with longer time to implement the technology change, 215 of the total 238 local radios are offered free concessional extensions on FM for five years. In addition, the Communication provides for a significant liberalisation of the framework conditions of the FM. The purpose of this is not to apply more stringent rules to the local radios in the FM network than to local radios in the DAB network. In addition, the Government makes provision to earmark about half of the funds from this support scheme for the digitisation of the local radio sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2429	Claims have been made both from individual actors and from SV – among others. what was presented on the platform — in this case, that certain parts of the criteria set out in the Digital Radio Communication by Stortinget are not met. We have no choice other than to trust that the government and the media regulator, who have carried out this evaluation, have made both the necessary assessments and have ensured them quality. I hear what the Council of State says from the pulpit, but it's just as fully addressing issues related to the proportion that listens to DAB. Therefore, I would like to hear the Council of State once again assure the Stortinget that all the conditions that were imposed in 2011 are now fulfilled, and that the Stortinget can thus feel confident that the right decision on closure will be taken in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2436	There were very clear criteria that were set when this message was last adopted in Stortingen, and so we've been given the opportunity to go through those criteria to see if they've actually been reached, and that's them. There were five clear criteria that were set. It was an absolute criterion, no. 1 and No 2, on population coverage. It's fulfilled. The criterion of population coverage implies that the NRK has to reach the same number of DABs as P1 is currently doing on FM. Then the commercial radio DAB network must reach at least 90 pst. by the population. This corresponds to the coverage requirement of the Radio Norway FM concession. Population coverage is based on household coverage. But it's not just coverage, as it might have been indicated here earlier; it's household coverage, and it's also the FM network today based on. DAB coverage is compared to reception of FM in stereo. It is therefore possible that for some listeners — who have received weak FM signals that have only given the possibility of receiving in mono after the closure — there has been some noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2443	With the exception of one proposal, which is almost to be regarded as a question of appropriations, it is a unanimous committee that supports this position. In spite of that, the President-in-Office, who comes from one of the government parties, raises a number of objections in his main speech. Does the Council of State and the Government share the concerns raised by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2448	We have had a very thorough debate on this in the government, and of course the government is fully behind this communication that has been submitted. But it is no secret that the Progress Party was against this message when it was dealt with in Stortinget in its time, and they have also expressed their opposition in the setting. But there is nothing to hide that the government is fully behind it – it should just be missing! But I record that there are others who were also for this when it was up to treatment in 2011, among others. As I said, who was in government the time that now has thoughts. So it can happen that people change their point of view. I have also recorded that the Labour Party has changed its point of view on various political issues when they come in opposition, after being in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2453	Thanks for the answer. But there is reason to get an insurance policy – that the Council of State assures us that the government is behind it. Nor has there been any dissenting proposal from the Progress Party in this Chamber, and we must, of course, interpret this as the fact that the Progress Party in the Great Britain agrees with the Progress Party in the Government. Then I perceive – and hope the Council of State can confirm it – that there are no dissenting proposals from the government parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2458	I have not registered that there is any proposal that should be different from what the government has proposed here. The government has promoted a message, and I am very proud of it. And I'm glad that there's a broad majority in Stortinget, a unanimous big deal – or everyone in the committee – behind it, with the exception of SV, which has promoted its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2463	I understand that our proposal can be seen as an allocation proposal, and I note that the Workers' Party will return to it in the budget. However, I would like to take on board our proposal, which deals with support schemes for local broadcasting. Today's grants include: to grants to the associations, programme activities, projects of excellence and development projects. Is not the Council of State concerned that that innovation power, not least in the field of programming and programme development, will be harmful when this pot is actually halved in proportion to what it was intended to be used for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2468	No, I'm not worried about that. I think this is a good use of those funds, and I think that's enough. Of course, it will also go on for several years, until this closure has taken place, finally – a transitional regime of five years has been established here. So, of course, this is a budgetary question, which you also have to come back with. I'm glad we have a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, so we'll be able to find a solution to these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2474	I did not ask in my post questions about whether the criteria, as they are defined, have been reached, because there is little doubt about it, but I did problematize a few of the criteria. There's a difference between a national coverage of 90 pst. and a population coverage of 90 pst. – one can risk areas where today there is FM coverage where a no need for DAB coverage with that definition. But more importantly: Digital platforms – the definition that we have reached 50 pst. on – is far wider than DAB radio and includes a number of other ways to listen on radio. Some of them think I'm pretty common among people. So let me ask the government council: does the ministry have a qualified opinion of how much of the population listening to the DAB radio quite specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2479	Now it was the requirement that was set, which I assume is well known to SV, as they were in government when this was set. The fact that at least half of the radio listeners have to hear all or part of the digital radio platform on a daily basis is therefore what is required, and the requirement must be met as of 1 January 2015. In order to measure this, TNS Gallup has conducted studies of radio listening in December 2014 and 2015, as a basis for the findings that we have based on when we have been informed that the requirement has actually been met. There has been a neutral body that has assessed this, not the Ministry of Culture. And it has been positive that the trend has turned around – in Norway, more and more people are listening to radio. The trend has been reversed in the last 20 years. This is probably due to the fact that the offer has become much better, there have been many more producers... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2484	I am aware of this, because it is stated in the message, and I am aware of the criterion, because I agreed to it. But that's not what I asked for. What I was problemating, as one might say, was that there was also original reason to problematize, was that the requirement we set was digital platforms in general, and DAB radio is a specific digital platform, a very common one, but I have the impression that listening to the iPad and the phone is also very common. I think it's a little interesting to know more specifically how common it is, and that's why I asked – I don't know if the council understood the question – if one has a qualified opinion, if one has numbers that show it. For one of the proposals we have put forward is simply to figure this out – it will be useful information, I say, for all actors and for society to come forward. So once again, I ask, does the Ministry of Culture have that kind of information today, and if not, could a person not do a job to get it out, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2489	There are probably many things you could have found further answers to, but the Storting decided in its time very clear criteria that should have been met. Those criteria have been met, and that is why we have proposed that decommissioning be carried out as early as 2017 and that we should not wait until 2019. It reminds me that when one in the decision in Stortinget said the conditions had to be met, this was a prerequisite for the closure decision to be taken in 2017 – or if one was to wait until 2019. And then I remind you again that there is a positive trend in Norway – even more of us are listening to radio. It's positive. So today, 200,000 more people are listening to P1+ than they were before. It is a positive signal that there are more and more people who are also interested in listening to radio. But the criteria have been met, and that is what underlies our decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2494	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2499	I welcome the proposal from the Labour Party. It would have been weird if we were to shut down the local radios in the cities before we shut down the major stations, so we also support that. SV has turned this case around, or they want at least more information, which they had the opportunity to obtain until today. There is no doubt that one of the requirements – as the Minister of Culture also says – is not DAB listening, but it is digital listening. The NRK said at the hearing on this matter that we should succeed, then we have to shut down the FM network, and we have to get more on digital listening. Those were clear words from the NRK. The Progress Party also wants digitisation. We have faith in this Internet that many have been sceptical about before. I'm a digital listener, I'm a DAB listener, I'm an FM listener, and these listeners depend on where I am, and when I do it. What the Progress Party has been fighting for for for five-six years is that we should not shut down the FM network, a matter we have now understood to have lost. But we'll be happy to go to Sweden, we'll be happy to go to Denmark, and we'll see that they don't choose to do the same. We hope some Swedes and some Danes buy cars with DAB so that when they come and visit the country, they have the opportunity to listen to these good radio channels we have in Norway. A number of questions have been asked in this case, and we have received a number of enquiries about answers that have not been completely clear, and that have not been answered in the Chamber today. Why do local radios in major cities have to be closed before local radios in the rest of the country? That means that we, who live in the big cities, get a worse local radio offer. Then there are also other questions that have been asked: Why should the Storting be able to protect the big ones from competition? The big ones are probably NRK and P4. And: Why does Stortinget believe that all concessionaires who own and operate their FM facilities at no cost to the public must not be allowed to continue on the FM network? Yes, these questions are asked. SV had many new questions – nothing new. For us who have been in the debate for four to five years now, there is nothing new that comes from SV in this case. When this matter was debated in the previous period, all the issues that SV has addressed now were part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2510	I just have some comments, among others. because I did not have the right to comment on SV's proposal in my first post. I think that other Board Vegar Solhjell had a good post and told me about his thoughts – not unlike many of us. The reality is that what's happening now is that nobody loses anything, but it's moving. It is very good to hear that those affected by this immediate FM ban in 2017 are in place on new platforms, so they are also available there. As regards proposal No: 3, from SV, it is such that the Council of State has clarified that they have been allowed to participate in such a thorough and systematic review and see that there are real numbers, and that there is correct information. We trust that, therefore, we do not support that proposal. As regards proposal No: 4, from SV; then I understand the interest in seeing how development is, whether there are DABs or other digital solutions. On the other hand, it has nothing to do with the closure of the FM, and therefore we do not think it is relevant here, but it is a very relevant question for the nearby radios that are now going to make changes. I've said that before and I'd like to say it again: I think too many of them it's natural to think about whether they should go to web solutions instead of to DAB. But we have spent a lot of money, both with public support through the NRK and other actors, building up the DAB network on the basis of a decision in Stortinget. We must respect that, too. The DAB network is established, there's a lot of money being spent on getting it in place, and now that's going to be the platform until we see how it evolves in the future. Then the question from SV is relevant. Exactly in this case, we don't think it belongs at home, but it will be exciting to follow it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2519	I thought the representative Harberg kept two reflective and good posts himself. At the end of his first post: one can never know, but I'll think that there's a very good chance that that's what the image is, that what we're discussing now is some kind of transition technology, which is hardly going to be the dominant in the long term. We're not really discussing whether we're digitising the radio or whether DAB is coming – most of the investments are made, and that's what happens. But we've come to the situation that unlike many other technology leaps, it hasn't been the great interest of it, either out there in other countries or here, and now we might decide to shut down the FM network to make it happen, because it'll be very good for some actors. There are good arguments for this, and then – what to say – there are good arguments for what I think is worth bringing. For my part, I haven't turned around, but I'm strongly in doubt if it's a wise decision 'in the end'. That is why we have put forward two proposals. One is a suggestion that we go through it thoroughly one more time. I can understand that with the positions of most of the parties, one vote against. When it comes to the other, about DAB, I perceive that the representative Harberg understood the point completely. I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Council of State understood it, because I've realized that it's not what's in the criterion. The criteria are digital platforms, no one is in doubt about it, but knowing how many actually belong to DAB, must be relevant to absolutely all actors in this market. If a now good vote against it, I'll respect it. But it must be of public interest and interest to the ministry to have the knowledge, so if one doesn't have the material you have, once in a while it has the background knowledge, I'll at least be very bold to acquire it, not least because it'll be important for many people to know in the short and long term where to develop the big, heavy stakes on radio supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2530	I just have a brief comment from the Labour Party. We agree with the comment on the SV's proposal on DAB listening that came from committee leader Svein Harberg, that it does not have anything to do with the decision we are about to make today, but that it may be interesting information in itself to get it clean, because this can also help the radio channels to understand the picture in terms of how to ensure that people are involved, and not least that the small local radios are included in a proper and good way. A call to the Council of State – I see she has drawn herself as the next person on the list of speakers – may be to come back to Stortinget, for example. in the context of government budgets, with some information related to it, without being part of this discussion. But it could be useful information to bring with it. Then I would like to remind you that there is still some time left until 2017, and the development we have seen in the field so far, coupled with the fact that we see that the criteria set in the digital radio message, are now fulfilled, make sure that we are going to be in the right place when you start shutting down the FM network from 1 January 2017. But it also requires considerable efforts, and I think that there are actors here who have been committed to the fact that the Storting should not stand for what was said in 2011 and have not yet exploited the potential to encourage their own listeners to access the DAB, buy DAB radio, and ensure that through it they get a good market to operate commercial radio in the future as well. At the same time, the development of the DAB network is ongoing today, and it will continue until the closure of the FM network starts in 2017. Among other things, two new large, strong transmitters are planned in the Oslo and Akershus areas, which will contribute further to better coverage, so that there are gaps today that should be closed, I feel confident that the actors will make sure that this happens. Then I am happy to register that the representative Ib Thomsen also acknowledges that the Internet has come to stay. However, I feel more uncertain, when I hear the rhetoric of the Advance Party, whether they also have that view of government participation: that the Advance Party has come into government to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2541	I thank you for a good debate. I just want to comment on a couple of things towards the end here. I have recorded that some of the perhaps most critical opponents of DAB technology in the local radio sector are already transmitting on DAB, and that there is almost an overall local radio sector that demonstrates a high level of commitment to good access criteria for the DAB network to put in place a support scheme for local radio digitisation in the districts. It is difficult to predict the future, but almost all players in the radio market seem to be very important to be present at DAB. So I believe that there are very strong indications that bet on DAB technology has something to do with it. Then it might be better to trust market players than politicians and bureaucrats, I think. I just want to also make a comment on what has been up with regard to TNS Gallup, and the numbers that it refers to. I believe that the issue and the question being asked is not very relevant. Now I don't remember all of those numbers in detail, but I think DAB is the most important platform that most people listen to. So I also think it's important that there are a lot of criteria set. We have an incredible number of numbers that can document how many are listening in a car today and how many are listening at home. Among other things, listening in the car constitutes 23 pst. of the total radio sound, while 77 pst. of the listening takes place at home. 20 pst. of the car park today is e.g. digital – of a total of 2.6 million cars. That means that there will be a lot of cars that have to convert to this by 2017. Then there is also the fact that the 20 most sold car models have DAB as standard or optional equipment, to mention something. There is a lot of information that we can develop and pass on, but I believe that the main criteria that Stortinget set at that time, which are clearly fulfilled, are what must be the goal. After all, there are many of the commercial players – important commercial players, including the NRC – who have invested an incredible amount in this because they believed in the politicians. The criteria that were set have been met, and I believe that this is the basis for concluding that a large majority in the European Parliament today does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2556	Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2560	In our digital world, there's help to get, and that's why I'm very happy that I can give a response to Solheel. 39 pst. of the daily radiolyts hear via DAB today, 18 pst. via the Internet and 11 pst. via digital television. If you have a quick in your head, you'll find out that there are 56 psts, but there's probably someone on several platforms here. So it shows that DAB is in good growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2565	The board Vegar Solhjell has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2568	I rely more on information from the department than on the Internet – even today. But what I'm drawing for was actually the state council's comment that maybe we should listen more to market players than to politicians. It's my point exactly. Who are the market players here? It's the consumers. It's the drivers when it comes to consumer technology, it's the ones that are the market. What's happening in Norway and in many countries is that it's proven that they don't embrace this new technology at the speed we wanted. That's why we politicians have agreed to a shut-down, set a framework that the big players wanted, and set up a race that they're proud of. So the radio operators have gone over it, while the consumers have hung out a little. So this is a politically guided liquidation, which has good arguments, and not a market and consumer development. That's what gives a reason to be a little bit of a thought. Otherwise I hope that things will go as well as the representatives of Grande and Harberg and others here seem to trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2577	As I said in my main post today, Norway is first in the world that implements shutdown, but it's not like we're alone in the world to actually be concerned with this problem, or to bet on digital radio and DAB. In countries such as Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain — and we can continue to do so — DAB is now being deployed, while plans for the closure of the FM network are also being implemented in the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark. So it's actually like there's others, among other things. our neighbouring countries, which are betting on DAB, and which are also working on concrete plans for closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2596	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2603	The representatives Toppe and Schlagsvold Vedum promote representative proposals where the main intention is to stop plans for the co-location of hospital functions in a large hospital in Gaustad and re-open Aker Hospital as a fully-fledged local hospital. A unanimous committee indicates that the combination of Health-East and Health-South and the transition that followed was complicated and demanding. The aim of the merger was to improve the coordination of regional enterprises with professional personnel, the correct use of land, medical devices, technology and support functions. The National Audit Office’s reports, revisions and control of the company and the process have repeatedly confirmed that no financial framework was taken into account, that hospitals were scattered in Oslo, that hospitals had different ICT solutions, and that some changes depended on others being carried out. Health South-East has started a number of projects to evaluate the process. They have also started work on identifying the capacity needs of Oslo and Akershus in the short and long term. Oslo University Hospital is now implementing the project Idéphase Oslo University Hospital to provide a good basis for further development of the hospital by 2030. The work includes the need to upgrade construction and plans for new construction. The results of both these efforts shall be presented to the Governing Boards in December 2015. The majority of the Committee believes that it is premature to conclude on concrete solutions and that it is not right to start with appropriations for unexplored projects, as the Socialist Left wishes. It creates precedent and distorts the whole process of decision-making on hospital financing. The majority also believe that it is not right to intervene in investigation processes, as the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party want. It is not right to override the responsibility assigned to Oslo University Hospital. The processes shall be able to provide the professional decision-making basis for future decisions, and it is wrong, in the opinion of the majority, to intervene and override the responsibilities of the hospital in fact. This can have significant professional and economic consequences that no one can see at this time. It is recorded that an alternative with a collection of Oslo University Hospitals on one area after a consultation round has been removed, and the majority of the Committee is satisfied with that. Without now considering different alternatives, a partial collection of hospital functions in the south of Gaustad combined with local hospitals appears more appropriate than the original option. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the building stock in large parts of Oslo University Hospital is not appropriate, and it is necessary to invest in new land in order to be able to operate modern. The Idea phase will provide Oslo University Hospital with a basis for the overall development of the enterprise in the future, and it is positive, the Committee believes, that the organisation of the cancer area should also be investigated. It is realistic to imagine that development will take place in stages with several individual projects that need to be planned within a comprehensive framework and direction. The economic impact of the different options is important. The surveys carried out by Oslo University Hospital show that the continuation of operations at today's locations is the most expensive option. For the purpose of assessing the capacity needs of Oslo and Akershus, the majority of the Committee is committed to assessing short- and medium-term measures ensuring the safety and predictability of the hospital offer and to using available capacity on Aker, Diakonhjemmet and Lovisenberg. The Committee is aware that assessments of the future local hospital offer are part of the idea phase of Oslo University Hospital and that the use of Aker Hospital will also be considered. The council of state has previously said in Stortinget that there has not been a performance in not using Aker hospitals. Finally, I would like to stress that for a long time in the future, operations will take place in today's existing hospital. It is absolutely necessary to establish a sound decision-making basis with sound anchoring both internally within the organisation and among external stakeholders for the further development of Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2633	Today, we have a proposal for a representative to call on the Stortinget Government to stop the existing plans for the co-location of several hospital functions in a new collection of Oslo University Hospitals in Gaustad. In addition to several other proposals, it is also proposed that Aker Hospital be restored as a local hospital. The proposers indicate that Oslo University Hospital, OYS, has many functions. It is both local and regional hospitals for the population of Oslo and regional hospitals — as well as specialised national tasks. The management of the OUS has launched an important process to develop the hospital towards 2030. The Idéphase Oslo University Hospital project, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, will address the need for both new construction and rehabilitation of old building stock, and will address possible different OYS locations and assess capacity needs in the short and long term. The Labour Party does not want to stop this process, and we therefore do not agree with the proposal that exists. It is very important not to stop the development process for hospitals in the capital. We know that Oslo is one of the fastest growing cities in Europe. The city’s population needs to know that health services in the region are dimensioned for this, and that citizens can have a good offer, both in the short and long term. In this process, it is also important to decide to investigate a new local hospital in Oslo, especially linked to the large population growth in the east and south of the city, and also a major urban hospital guard. In this work, it is very important that the process is anchored in and managed by the Municipality of Oslo. We have noted that the collection of Oslo University Hospitals on one site has been set aside by the Board of Directors at the OUS, after recording from many of the hearing bodies. Instead, we look at several other alternatives, such as: partial collection on the south of Gaustad. We take this into consideration in the Committee for information and intelligence. The working party will stress the need for a rapid, short- and medium-term solution to address the capacity challenges of local hospitals in Oslo. We have noted that in letters to the Health Committee, the Minister of Health pointed out that the investigations into the overall capacity of Oslo and Akershus were presented in December. We assume that the Minister of Health is following this work closely. We have noted that there are concerns related to the capacity of the offer given to patients who were previously implicated in Aker Hospital, but who today belong to Akershu University Hospital, Aarhus. In this context, it is necessary to consider taking action to address those challenges. It is important to look at possible cooperation with other hospitals based on the need for additional capacity. These include both the Diakon home, Lovisenberg and Aker hospitals as possible partners. Furthermore, it is important to stress that Aker Hospital is currently operating as an interactive hospital, with healthcare both under the direction of the OUS and the Oslo Municipality, including outpatient treatment for the Sunnaa Hospital and emergency services in the field of drugs. It is therefore difficult to imagine that the proposal to reopen Aker as a local hospital for the east of Oslo is feasible or desirable. On the other hand, we agree that it should be assessed on an ongoing basis whether Aker Hospital, in addition to the current activity, can help relieve the situation in the short term with the provision of local hospital facilities for patients in the eastern parts of Oslo. The aim must be to ensure patients predictability of the local hospital to which they are implicated, if more than one hospital has to be used to meet the needs of the population. The working party believes that the process of the OUS is inside a trail that looks positive and good. We think it is important to support the work being done, and assume that the Council of State follows the work closely, and that the Municipality of Oslo is close to the processes associated with local hospitals and large-scale hospital guards. The Labour Party does not support the present proposal for a representative, but has its own proposal to which several parties are party and which was referred by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2654	I would like to begin by saying that, through my ten years at Stortinget, I have followed closely the debate on the hospitals in the Oslo area, and it is striking to record that especially the Senterparti and SV, when they were in government, felt very little about the process of conversion – despite the fact that the population and employees were alerting about significant problems and concerns. The Progress Party records that these batches now recognise this in its comments. Lack of plans and impact assessments led, inter alia, to the transfer of a number of patients to Aarhus overnight created almost chaotic conditions. But health ministers who came and went in this period, at any time, had confidence that this would go well. Now, when you've started a whole series of work to look at today's needs and in the run-up to 2030, by looking at both the current construction and the need for new construction, the same two parties will stop this. I'm going to be honest with you that I'm also worried about spending a lot of money on investigations and plans, but history has shown us that lack of such thoroughness costs more. The start-up of Idéphase Oslo University Hospital with mandates and assumptions was made while the Centerpartiet and SV were in government. It must be possible to assume that costly investigations are completed in order to give some answers, rather than being stopped in the middle and thus getting minimal out of the work that has been done. It is also part of the story that the work in progress looks at three different alternatives. It is the health business itself that is responsible for providing a decision-making basis for making changes that are best for patients and society in general. Several of the proposals from the Centre Party and SV will be answered through the process that is now taking place, which makes it even more strange that you want it stopped. However, the Progress Party is pleased that the option has been scrapped, which meant bringing together all the hospital functions in one place. As regards the use of Aker Hospital, I would like to remind you that the Centre Party and SV have voted against the proposal of the representative of the Advance Party to ensure the use of Aker. Nevertheless, and fortunately, Aker Hospital today appears to be an important part of the overall capacity of Oslo University Hospital. In 2014, 6400 operations, 170 000 outpatient consultations and more than 700000 laboratory studies were carried out at Aker. The Progress Party now accepts to wait for the evaluations on the future local hospital offer, which is part of the currently ongoing Idea Phase work, to be submitted in December. We are concerned that the Municipality of Oslo is involved in the work on the local hospital issue, that the Minister of Health in his letter to the Committee has reason to believe that Aker Hospital is being assessed in this work, and that the Minister of Health has also repeatedly stressed that he has no record in this regard. On behalf of the party and the people of Oslo, I look forward to the presentation of this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2678	In 2001, the state assumed hospital responsibilities — with corporate governance in five health regions. In the south, the health region of the east, where almost one ended up competing or arguing about the patients, rapidly emerged as a result of an unfortunate demarcation between the health region of the south and the health region of the east. Thus health south and health east came to the fact that they had to join together, to health south-east. It should improve coordination of the professional and research environment and ensure the use of personnel, area, equipment, technology and, in particular, support functions. This change has been demanding, especially for hospitals. A lot of critical questions have been asked – not least questions about the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital and the consequences this has had for the citizens of Oslo. It has also shown that there are not always large companies and large hospitals that are the best. This has been treated many times in this hall. The National Audit Office's report has shown various ICT systems in Health South-East, challenging financial frameworks, that there is a lot going on in a hospital that has consequences for what happens in other hospitals, that there is a population growth that is solid, that there is not enough capacity even if we've got Ahus, and that there are difficult distinctions between what are national functions and what are regional functions. That's why the Left and Christian People's Party asked at the beginning of this big period for an external expert assessment, which was voted down. Most of the parties in this room have been and have expressed themselves critically to a new giant expansion in Gaustad and say that yes, we need an extension, but we don't have to go in the same trap again, with a new giant expansion. For new and increased capacity to be needed in Oslo, there is no doubt about it. Should a few do this in the best possible way, a new building is a reality, and should be able to build a new building that is forward-looking, a need also to explore capacity and what kind of equipment you actually need to have there. At the same time, it is important that we in Oslo now look at whether there are opportunities to do something within that entity in the short and long term, in order to ensure an emergency situation right now. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the majority that we are asking the government to assess measures in the short and medium term in order to ensure the necessary security, capacity and predictability of hospital services in Oslo, not least to the people of Oslo. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the others, wants to look at the vacant capacity at Aker Hospital, at Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and at the Diakon home Hospital, to see if they can help and remedy the situation in a different way and not least take over local hospital functions, which are important for Oslo. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the majority's proposal for a decision and does not support the Central Party and the SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2693	The central party suggests that hospitals in the capital city area are developed through a continuation and modernisation of today's structure and based on today's hospital facilities – Ullevål, Radium Hospital, the Rikshospitalet and Aker, in addition to Lovisenberg and the Diakon home. In January of this year the director of the OUS went out on TV 2 and apparently rejected the plans for a giant hospital for over 43 billion. kr at Gaustad. But the giant hospital project at Gaustad is not a joke. There will still be 450 000 square meters of hospital in Gaustad, which is the area of St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim gonga with two. There was cross-political agreement on the co-organization of hospitals in the Oslo area in one joint health care establishment, Oslo University Hospital. But it has never been our political acceptance for the co-location of hospitals in the capital region before today. Representatives from both the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right of the Stortinget have been shown in the media that they do not support the giant hospital in Gaustad. Now, all of a sudden, this is politically acceptable, because the proposal is somewhat downgraded. But lifting the local hospital functions – which were never part of the project anyway – and transferring them to the Diakon home and Lovisenberg is not a real downscaling. It is only SV that today is in agreement with the Central Party on the proposal to ask the government to stop plans for co-location for most hospital functions in the OUS in a new major hospital in Gaustad. Only the Centre Party and SV propose that further development of hospital services in Oslo should take place around today's hospital facilities. The majority of the population agree to ask the government to ensure that a plan is developed to solve the capacity problems and upgrade needs in the short and medium term. The size is against restoring Aker hospitals as a fully-fledged local hospital, and the proposal from the Center Party to introduce urban rentals at the OUS does not get any more. Today's debate shows that many parties give the impression of one thing in the media and another thing in the big room. On 13 February of this year Yngve Qustad in the VG had this comment on what is happening at the OYS: ‘Deepest view, the case poses a problem for the entire health business model, which Bent Höie once wanted to throw away, for the one who remembers the opposition politician of the same name. The intention of the reform was the best, and probably necessary at that time, to resolve the ties between the hospital administrators and local politicians who would like to look forward to a re-election. In this, too, the professional influence was to become stronger. The result seems to be the opposite; trade unions have been marginalised while individual actors are taking shortcuts to the Council of State. At the other end, politicians do not take responsibility for the unfortunate consequences that arise in this way — insofar as they detect them at all before it is too late.’ I noticed that both the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party, the Right and the Progress Party in the Notes write that it is not correct that the Storting intervenes in important and necessary distribution processes that should be able to provide a professional basis for decisions in the future. This is a misunderstanding. We're not proposing to stop a distribution work; we want to change it. The Central Party believes that it is a political responsibility to provide leadership for the size of hospitals we are going to have in Norway, and whether there is political outreach about the physical co-location of most hospital functions in the capital city area in one major hospital. There's no small decision, which we think should go to Stortinget. It is regrettable that Stortinget also does not see the value of quiet rental. Int. 134 S for 2013–2014 said a Joint Control and Constitutional Committee, minus the Workers' Party, as follows: ‘In the short term, immediate action must be taken to solve capacity and organisational problems by reorganising the OYS in order to be managed locally at all levels.’ Now it's voted straight down. It is also alarming that both the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party vote for a proposal that Aker should be developed into a fully-fledged local hospital. The recommendation, such as: The working party is behind it, and does not clarify the situation at all. Aker has local hospital functions today. Here we must have the will to be clear to the enterprise. With this I present the suggestions from the Center Party and SV in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2731	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2734	It is the principal challenge of this document 8 proposal from the Central Party. When the Central Party has been in government for eight years and has asked for investigations – even to join Oslo University Hospital in Europe’s largest hospital – it is not particularly humiliating to say that you should simply stop the whole process via a Document 8. As regards the intention of this Central Party proposal, the Left agrees in part. We've pointed out that this is a process that seems to be a little out of control. Now they've been picking up a little in the last six months, but it's hard to share the ambitions about which hospitals we're going to build in Norway. There are some challenges to Oslo University Hospital, which are not just regional hospitals for Oslo. It also has local health functions, but not least it has some national functions of which the entire population of Norway will have a part. With regard to the debate on local hospitals on which the representative Toppe was involved, and that we do not vote to strengthen Aker, the Left has pointed out both in Oslo and nationally that we want a new local hospital south-east in Oslo. Aker is partly in use today, but we haven't pointed it out as the only solution. Lovisenberg may be Norway’s largest local hospital. They say they have capacity and can grow. The deacon home is also a local hospital of high quality. There are great opportunities at the local hospitals that exist. For the Left, it has been particularly important that a medical guard is now in place. It's the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo, but it has to do with this whole process. It is also true that Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus have made agreements with surrounding hospitals – for example. Kongswinger Hospital — which receives some patients to relieve them. Such opportunities are likely to increase in the future. There are also possibilities that we have to use. We can't just build ourselves out of the challenges in Oslo if there's free building mass and free capacity in the area. The main reason why the Left refuses to support the proposal of the Central Party is that we are now so close to an investigation that we have to get it into goal. And then we'll see if it gets grounded. The left wants us to thank hospitals for their investments, and that we go to Denmark and other countries to see how they have arranged to build a future hospital. That we're building a huge hospital in Oslo, we don't see that there's room for today, and we don't see the need for it either. But we have a long, laborious process ahead of us. This is going to take many years, and there's an investment race that's going to go on for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2747	Oslo University Hospital is now implementing the project Idéphase Oslo University Hospital to provide a good basis for further development of the hospital by 2030. The work includes the need to upgrade construction and plans for new construction. Patient progression and capacity in the future are also involved. Health South-East is now reviewing future capacities and opportunities for optimising operations and division of tasks and work for the entire specialist health service in Oslo and Akershus. The results of both these efforts shall be presented to the Governing Boards in December 2015. Oslo University Hospital is responsible for contributing to a sound operation for the future within the financial framework on which the Stortinget relies. Intervention in investigative processes that should be able to provide the professional basis for future decisions, that is to say, we also intervene and override the responsibilities of the hospital, which may have significant professional and economic consequences. I cannot recommend that this be done. Oslo University Hospital was established, among others. to ensure a more efficient use of resources in the capital area. Much of the potential has still not been extracted, including: due to insufficiently suitable building mass. By investing in a new area for modern hospital operations, Oslo University Hospitals can handle about 30-40 pst. less area than currently available. So there is not a shortage of hospital space that is the problem for Oslo University Hospital, but a lack of suitable areas for modern hospital operations. Then I would like to remind you that it was the previous government that saved large parts of Ullevål Hospital. The Idea Phase Plan shall provide Oslo University Hospital with a basis for the overall development of the enterprise in the future. Developments will take place in stages with several individual projects that need to be planned within a comprehensive framework and direction. The mappings currently made by Oslo University Hospital show that the continuation of operations at today's locations is the most expensive option. It is important to get this better illuminated in the further investigation. The reality is that there is going to be operation at all of today's main locations for very many years to come. All locations now have a building mass that is relatively new or newly renovated, and it will in any case take several years before new buildings come into place. At the same time, there is a very great need to upgrade the buildings at three locations. The proposals suggest that the Oslo population does not receive a fully-fledged local hospital offer. I don't know that's the case. Hospitals in the metropolitan area currently have sufficient capacity. Oslo University Hospital, Akershus University Hospital, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and Diakonhemmet Hospital Hospital today share the local hospital responsibility for the Oslo population. In the future, it may be relevant that Lovisenberg and the Diakon home are given a greater share of this responsibility. I am pleased that the committee is in favour of this. With regard to the short-term upgrading needs of Oslo University Hospital, this is a matter to which the government may come back in the 2016 government budget. With regard to plans in the longer term, this is part of the ongoing idea phase. Health South-East will present a plan for the management of capacity challenges in Oslo and Akershus in the medium term in December 2015. Assessments of the future local hospital offer are part of the idea phase work. The use of Aker hospitals will also be assessed in this context. I have said many times from this pulpit that this government has no record of using Aker hospitals. On the contrary, Oslo University Hospital currently has a significant activity at this hospital. Further use must be based on the appropriateness of the hospital and the population of Oslo. It is absolutely necessary to establish a sound decision-making basis with sound anchoring both internally within the organisation and among external stakeholders for the further development of Oslo University Hospital. I believe that Oslo University Hospital is well in progress with this work now. I can also promise Stortinget that this is a work we follow very closely, as the representative of the Workers' Party also stressed that it was important that I did – and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2769	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2772	It is good that the Council of States confirms that there is no planned stoppage in the processes that are going around the OUS, because it is precisely these processes that should give us the options that will underpin the decision taken. Much needs to be on the table of the health business and of the municipality of Oslo, for example, in order to provide the required local functions. However, I have to ask – the Council of State was involved – whether he can elaborate on how, within the framework of the Health Business Act, he can follow up the many challenges and parallel processes in this matter, related to both the needs of local hospitals and the needs of the health region and also to the national functions of this hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2779	It is important that Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East, which are now responsible for planning, provide a good basis for decision-making. The decisions to be taken at the level of the future will depend on the recommendations made and the conclusions drawn. But that doesn't mean I'm sitting at arm's length and don't follow what's going on. I have regular meetings with Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals to be updated on the progress of the planning processes they have. I also had it when the hearing was finished. I was then given clear feedback, including. from the Municipality of Oslo, which was important for the adjustment of the further planning, where one left the idea of having a total collection of Oslo University Hospitals in one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2786	In reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘Intervention in investigative processes that should be able to provide the professional basis for decision-making may have significant both professional and economic implications.’ [[...]] My question is: Is it so that hospitals and healthcare professionals in Norway can work out and start distribution processes about anything? Is there not one example where the Council of State thinks it can intervene from the department's side and say that this is not so clever, because this will not be politically acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2796	I don't think there's one example of something that the State Council can't intervene in as a corporate meeting. I've expressed that multiple times in this hall. But it's not always wise. What is clear is that health businesses have very clear guidelines on how this work is to be done, and on what alternatives and how many alternatives are to be explored at the different stages. What is important is that health businesses and health regions follow the guidelines, and they have not changed lately. Then, of course, one will see that if there are things that have been investigated, and as it is completely unreal, it is of course possible to intervene. But it is important that you have a good decision-making basis, including as a government council, before you intervene in processes. I think it is important that we now move on and get a good decision-making basis based on the options that are now being explored.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2803	Thanks for the answer. I have a question about Decision 108/2008, which is also referred to in the setting, which has been made in Health South-East, that ‘acute surgery, orthopaedics and other specialised functions in a morbidity are generally to be grouped in one place, but adaptations are open’. This decision I have heard have been referred to in many health care establishments, in Health South-East, in the Inland, in the West Viken, in the South, and it is also the basis of the collection in Oslo University Hospital. I have received many questions as to whether this 2008 decision is in fact governing. Can the Council of State confirm or confirm that this 108 Decision is in place and in a way should be the main rule for both the OUS and other health care services in the South-East region?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2812	As alternatives are now being investigated that do not involve them, it is not possible to explore other alternatives. It is also the case that the Stortinget will soon be presented with a national health and hospital plan, where the Stortinget is just invited to have an opinion on the types of functions that should be in the types of hospitals, and in particular on the importance of what different levels of emergency functions may have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2819	Thank you. I have one last question. The council said in their statement that the new hospital planned for 30 p.m. smaller area, without indicating the capacity in relation to today's bed figures. There is a debate on the occupancy rate in Norwegian hospitals, and I would like to ask what percentage of the occupancy rate the new hospital, OYS, is planning for at Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2826	The representative described one of the alternatives here as a giant hospital, starting with the number of square feet. Then it's important to realize that what an actually plans here is a reduction in the number of square meters compared to the current situation, precisely because square meters say little about hospital capacity, at least when you're dealing with the old areas that one here has, where the use of the land is very poor in some buildings, for example. in Ullevål Hospital, which the previous government chose to peace. There will, of course, be a variation in the coverage to be planned between different departments. What is the Health Authority's recommendation is that you do not have a coating percentage of more than 85 pst. in those departments which have a large number of immediate relief patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2833	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2849	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2856	We've been in hospital for years in this country. This has been a successful model, especially in regions with large distances. Hospitals have provided health services to the population and the development of good cooperation with hospitals and other health services. Research shows that hospitals have lower consumption of hospital services than districts without such services. A study conducted by researchers Erik Langfeldt and Ivar Johannes Aaraas from 2000 documents that hospitals replace hospitalization for very many patients, and allows others to be printed out earlier. In the four municipalities of Nord-Troms, Kåfjord, Kvänangen, Skjervøy and Nordreisa, the Health Nord regional health company has financed nine hospitals since 2005. The municipalities together have over 11,000 inhabitants and are a large region geographically. The distance from the northernmost municipality of Kvænangen to the nearest hospital in Tromsø is the equivalent of the route Oslo-Kristiansand, and the region has a challenging infrastructure with rasable distances and often winter-bound roads. Hospitals in Nord-Troms have always had good covering on their beds, and all municipalities have stable and competent health professionals. Figures from the municipalities show that a large proportion of those admitted to hospitals can be sent to their own homes after treatment, without having to be treated in a hospital. However, through the implementation of the cooperation reform, there was a lack of clarity about the financing of hospitals in Nord-Troms, which, unlike the Finnish hospitals, have had a purely regional grant. In 2013, the health company announced that it believed that the Interaction Reform would gradually make hospitals redundant. The working party believes that hospitals are an important complement to other health services, especially in such regions as Nord-Troms. Therefore, in the 2014 budget, the red-green government placed a clear order with the healthcare company that hospitals in Nord-Troms should continue to have funding from the health company’s budget. That order has not been followed up by the current government. That is why there is now a pressure on the funding of hospitals. Fortunately, in the spring, the health company has announced to the four hospitals that it will continue the current funding scheme in 2016, but considers it a premise that all beds in the region should be co-located to the District Medical Centre in the largest municipality, Nordreisa. A collection of resources can, of course, be right in many places and contribute to better services to the population. But the four hospital municipalities in North Troms are clear that they want to continue the distribution of beds you have today. It is the municipalities that have the health care responsibility for the hospital beds and for the skills needed. Then it must also be that the municipalities should have the last word in terms of the kind of organisation they want for the beds. I expect the healthcare company to have a continuous and open dialogue with the relevant municipalities, so that solutions can be found to take care of the local authorities' views on the matter. The Workers’ Party, together with the SV, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre, promotes a proposal that the health company must continue to invest in hospitals, as they have announced, and that it should be possible to do so on the basis of a model that the municipalities themselves find useful and which at the same time provides the best services to the people of the region. It is a precise answer to the challenge addressed by this representative proposal. We have long hoped to have a majority in favour of our proposal – all the time this does not, in fact, conflict with the majority proposal put forward in the I recommendation. In fact, this proposal calls for a policy to be agreed on, which has already been adopted and partly required by law, for example. cooperation between the health enterprise and the municipalities — including half-way services, as in the case of hospitals. However, the majority proposal does not at all respond to the challenges addressed in this draft representative. And when the government parties plus the left set up their proposal as a real alternative to our proposal, with the argument that this will solve the crowd, yes, then we only have one thing to do. That is why the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have come to the conclusion that we will vote against the majority proposal in I in the committee's recommendation – and of course for our own proposal. I then deal with the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted together with the three parties mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2871	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2874	The organisation of specialist healthcare in Norway needs to take a lot of account. There are geographical considerations, population base, specific regional conditions and not least the competences available. In long-distance districts, it is important that good and appropriate solutions are developed between health businesses, hospitals and municipalities. District Medical Centres such as Hallingdal Sickestugu in Buskerud, Valdre’s local medical centre in Uppland and North-Troms hospitals are examples of this. The specialist healthcare service finances such district health services in different ways. Often it is that the municipalities agree to have a so-called host municipality for one centre. It has been demonstrated that residents in long-distance districts to hospitals benefit very well from these offers. What we are dealing with today is financing nine beds in Nord-Troms, which is financed by Health Nord, and there are nine beds distributed among the four municipalities of Skjervøy, Nordreisa, Kåfjord and Kvänangen. I am pleased that, in a letter to the Committee, the Health Minister informs me that there are no plans to weaken the funding offer for hospital operations in Nord-Troms in 2016. As of 1 January 2016, all municipalities in the country will have a statutory obligation to have municipal immediate help beds. These are funded through a framework transfer to municipalities. This is part of the continuation of the cooperation reform, which is also the case in Nord-Troms. These beds are therefore to be considered a municipal responsibility. The objectives of the Interaction Reform are to link services in hospitals and municipalities. The budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation. In addition, the Committee has been informed, by letter from Health Nord to the municipalities, that it has decided to continue the financing of hospital operations beyond this transfer. This means that the economic transfers do not change. We are committed to ensuring the further operation of the health service, and that residents of Skjervøy, Nordreisa, Kåfjord and Kvänangen should have a good local health service. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left therefore promote proposals in the case, that the government must ensure that the inhabitants of these municipalities receive equivalent specialist health services and that further cooperation is facilitated. We know that there are different opinions between the municipalities and Health Nord about how to organise the offer, and that it is a wish from the company that the beds are located at Sonjatun in Nordreisa. Now it is not surprising that a health company believes anything about the use of their money in municipalities. We have made it clear that there must be a real dialogue between the municipalities and the University Hospital Nord-Norway, which will cooperate with the municipalities on the use of the beds and on how to develop the services. If a good solution is to be found, it is necessary to consider different options and models of the location of the offer. Nord-Troms is a large region, as they say here, and there are great distances and winter roads. We are therefore concerned with the use of telemedicine, that it is further developed and used in the investigation of the models. Telemedicine can provide good follow-up even with long distances and closed roads. It also requires the development of good competence in telemedicine in the four municipalities concerned. In autumn 2015, the government presented a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget. The plan will be the government's tool for setting up hospitals and specialist health services in the future. We have therefore highlighted in the decision the importance of the government’s description of the forms and development of interaction between municipalities and specialist health services – precisely how specialist health services should interact. This involves looking at the national health and hospital level in the context of ongoing work in the Ministry of Health and Welfare affecting the municipalities. This applies, for example: the public health, primary health, the upcoming quality and patient safety reporting and the notified escalation plan for the drug field. There is therefore no stop in financing the specialist health services in Nord-Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2895	Since 2005, the University Hospital of North Norway and Health Nord have financed a number of bed places in the hospitals in Nord-Troms. Hospitals in Finnmark have historical reasons and emerge from a pilot scheme of activity-based funding. The testing scheme has been completed, but the grant has been continued. And from 1 January next year, all municipalities in the country will have a statutory obligation to have municipal immediate help beds. In other places hospitals are operated in a spice layer, the specialist health service buys places from the municipality, or the municipality buys places in the specialist health service. At all levels of specialist healthcare, we find local adjustments, and that is in most cases very good. This means that we can more easily provide more services near where people live, and you can find local adaptations that take into account demography and geography. But it is quite clear that during work on the National Health and Hospital Plan, we see that we have a lot of different devices on this. However, the most important thing for the Progress Party is not how many devices we have, but that the offer is best suited for as much as possible, and that this requires that we are constantly concerned with improvements. Some people need to protest against any change that comes. Well, we're going to take care of that. Changes are both correct and necessary in most cases. We therefore look forward very much to having a proper review and a debate around how we want our citizens across the country to meet – today, tomorrow and in the long term. SV is promoting a proposal for a representative in which they are asking the government to ensure that hospitals in Nord-Troms continue from 1 January 2016. In a letter dated 24 April, the Minister of Health stated that there were no plans to weaken the funding base for hospital operations in Nord-Troms in 2016. Since the intention of the proposal has already been met, the majority has put forward a proposal that goes further on how this should be resolved even after 2016. I expect that the proposers do not want a great deal of uncertainty about these questions every year, and we therefore ask that the national health and hospital plan address this when it comes to treatment. We therefore do not support the proposal for a representative, but the committee's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2906	To be sure that a person gets help when one needs it, and that one when one is seriously ill, also has the opportunity to have the family nearby, means a lot to most of us. Living in Utkant-Norway, with great geographical distances, with bad roads, with winter roads, with bad weather – perhaps with both high seas and storms, without aviation weather – does something with this security. This challenges the security of the assistance to be provided when needed. Hospitals in Nord-Troms are an important part of our health and assistance service, because there are many there who both get the help they need, and at the same time have an opportunity to have their closest possible. From the town of Kvänangen it is 320 kilometers to the nearest hospital. It's a long way. There has been a long discussion about the future financing of hospitals in Skjervøy, Nordreisa, Kåfjord and Kvänangen. When the Interaction Reform was introduced, hospitals in Finnmark received their further funding through a split layer between the health company and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, where they shared 50/50. But for the hospitals in the North Troms, there was uncertainty about whether their funding was secured – whether their future and their lifetime were secure. Now it is announced that the funding from the health company will stop if the municipalities do not collect the offer in one place, and not in each municipality. When we know that the distance between the Women and the UN is 320 kilometers, we know that it's far from bad weather, and maybe one of them doesn't have any of them with it. If we have a patient’s healthcare system, we have offers and opportunities for both patients and relatives together. The letter and the requirement of the health care company mean that the hospitals, with the competence they have, and the meaning they have had as a half-way service for most people in these municipalities, will disappear. The Christian People's Party wants to keep these beds and let the municipalities themselves find out what's best for their inhabitants. They're the ones who know best where the shoe prints. That is why the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left agree on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2921	First, I would like to thank the representatives from SV who have raised this matter to Stortinget. It's a matter that we've been engaged in before, but that now turns out not to get the pretense that has been the Storting's will. The centre party is clear that today's hospitals in Nord-Troms still need to secure funding for further operations in the way it is organised today, and we support the proposal from the minority. It is stressed, by representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, that one should go further in a national health and hospital plan and describe more about what kind of coordination project and what kind of agreement can ensure a decentralised hospital provision. Doesn't the Storting know what's in today's law? I'm starting to fool. For health professionals’ laws, specialist health services laws and health and care laws, the entity’s obligation to conclude cooperation agreements is clear, and the law also defines what those agreements should hold. When the plural refers to the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, etc., there is a proposal without value in this context. It only repeats what is today's law, and opens completely open doors, but it doesn't secure the hospitals in North Drums in any way from what is the problem. They ask in the proposal that the people of North Troms receive equivalent specialist health services. However, if you are reading the health care providers and specialist health services laws, it is quite clear that you should ensure that the service provision is equivalent and tailored to the patient’s needs and that it is made available to patients. So this isn't something you need a suggestion about. The proposal put forward by the majority as a solution was also slaughtered by the action group established for the Nord-Troms hospital, which is a wide-ranging group of representatives from the SV, the Workers' Party, the Coastal Party, the Right and the Centre parties and by various trade unions. They have assessed the proposal from the majority, and they write to us in an e-mail that they cannot see that the situation of the hospitals in the North Troms is more clear with this proposal. That's what the truth is. That is why the Central Party will not vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal from the majority, because it is the proposal put forward by the minority in the Committee, which would have led to a clarification on the further operation and financing of hospitals in Nord-Troms. When this is the case, a national health and hospital plan should contain guidance for collaborative projects: When will a national hospital plan be adopted? There'll be almost one more year. It's going to be too late for this. Furthermore, the obligation to cooperate today is enshrined in the law. Rather, one could have used energy to ensure that healthcare agencies and municipalities are able to fulfil the obligations of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2936	Multiples here have shown that there are large distances in the North Drums. That's absolutely right. Therefore, there is also a need to have a decentralised offer, so the nine sick beds have existed in the four municipalities since 2005. Several have mentioned that it was a preliminary offer and that it contributed to creating a content of the Interaction Reform that came in 2012. So there's a history behind here where you really haven't quite managed to clarify this situation for Nord-Troms. Usually we equate Finnmark and Nord-Troms in terms of the instrumentation. This is mainly about a period when there has been a red-green government that has not been able to agree on how to finance such an offer. I guess it also seems a little random how it happened in Finnmark. From 2016 we will oblige municipalities to provide immediate help beds. With that we move more money closer to the municipality. That is what we are now saying with this majority proposal, that how we are to finance regional offers should not be a principle decision in the Stortinget. It must be found out by the municipalities together with the regional, in this case the health enterprise Universitetssykhuse Nord-Norge HF. More and more of the money is being moved closer to the municipality. It is difficult to see that the municipalities cannot afford and decide on the offer, as they say they agree, and allow themselves to be dictated by the specialist health service. It will be a little difficult for us to go into a national health and hospital plan if such regional struggles are based. This is not an outstanding offer. In my county, Oppland, six municipalities have joined forces to build a local medical centre at the Fenrens in Valdres. They have invested together, and they have established their own property company. The municipalities have split up at 300 million. kr to build it up. The Inland HF Hospital has not been involved in investment funds, but they have nevertheless now chosen to establish a dialysis facility there, which can be expanded by establishing more and more day outpatient activities. It'll be exciting to see in the future. They are looking at whether it is actually possible to establish a CT machine in that offer. For those who live in Valdres and have a long way to either Lillehammer, Gjøvik or Hønefoss, this is a sweet offer. Not many years have passed since we shut down the food supply in Valdres, and there was a great deal of concern that the entire health supply should be removed from Valdres. In just a few years, one has turned around locally, and together with the Hospital Inland HF, new offers are being planned. There must be such a type of dialogue that we should facilitate and clarify, including in the national hospital plan – the structure for the future. Therefore, it would seem that today it would be a wrong decision to freeze the situation in some regions — and thus end up in a rather unclear situation for many other regions that want to do something similar. The representative from Right Kristin Ørmen Johnsen was involved in telemedicine. That's right, it doesn't solve everything. When there are large distances, there are sometimes also a need for a bed. It has to be able to be solved within the immediate help offer. The left has also often spoken of district medicine in the past. This is a region that has experience and competence in this, and it is a competence we want in the national health plan. So we're looking forward to the municipalities of Nord-Troms, these four in this case, using their power to help determine what kind of offer they're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2953	Hospitals in Nord-Troms are an example of an offer the government will have more of as a follow-up to the Cooperation Reform. Providing health services outside hospitals where individuals live is good for the individual, and it is a good social economy. The organisation and financing of healthcare in Nord-Troms must be agreed locally between the municipalities concerned and Health Nord. Hospitals are included in this. It is natural that further grants from Health Nord to the operation of hospitals are seen in the context of the grant for setting up new daily services in municipalities in connection with the Cooperation Reform and, where appropriate, other grants. As part of the Interaction Reform, funds will be transferred to the municipal framework in connection with the establishment of new immediate assistance daily services that municipalities have been able to offer from 2012 and which will become a statutory task from 2016. This means that funds that have so far come from hospitals are transferred to the municipality framework from 2016. The aim is that the new offer should help patients to be treated more closely where they live instead of having to be hospitalised, provided that they receive at least an equal offer. In addition, Health Nord has decided to continue the financing of hospital operations in addition to the funds now transferred to the municipality framework, also for 2016. Thus, the financial framework for the health provision of the population of the municipalities concerned will not change as a result of the 2016 conversion. Further development and any adjustments in the hospital provision must be done locally based on knowledge of local circumstances. Health Nord and the municipalities will have to engage in dialogue on how to organise the offer in the context of the support the enterprise will contribute, in addition to the funds now transferred to the municipality framework. Good cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services is important in order to develop good quality services tailored to the needs of the population. An appropriate solution must be based on a real dialogue between the municipalities concerned and Health Nord and the need to assess alternatives to the co-location of supply in the dialogue. The municipalities of Nord-Troms and Health Nord need to clarify whether they see a common advantage of offering in addition to that which helps fewer patients to travel all the way to Tromsø, and whether the municipalities ensure good quality of their services. We must have a health and care service that ensures equal access for the entire population to sound services. Such an offer can only be realised through close cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. Interaction reform with emphasis on continuous treatment processes continues to apply. One of the main objectives of the Interaction Reform is to link services in hospitals and municipalities. Grants from the State budget for the operation of hospitals in Nord-Troms are not planned. The grant of the State budget to hospitals in Finnmark has historical reasons and emerges from a pilot scheme with activity-based funding of hospitals in Finnmark in the 2000s. As a result of the financial instruments of the Cooperation Reform, it was no longer considered appropriate to continue such a pilot scheme and the experiment has therefore been concluded. However, the State budget subsidy was continued. In autumn 2015, the government presented a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget. The plan will be the government's main tool for setting up hospitals and specialist health services in the future. The national health and hospital plan shall become the government's operational tool for meeting the future need for specialist health services. The plan is drawn up on the basis of what patients and users think healthcare should look like. It shall give concrete content to the concept of ‘patient’s healthcare’. Both process and plan shall reflect user experience, competence and views. By providing a national health and hospital plan, the government will ensure that overall policy decisions on hospitals and specialist health services are taken by the Stortinget. National health and hospital plans are drawn up and seen in conjunction with other ongoing work in the ministry, such as: the notification of primary health, which has now been transmitted to the Stortinget, and the forthcoming notification of quality and patient safety, the alerting of the escalation plan for the drug field and the work currently under way in the prehospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2987	We propose that the health care provider continue to invest in hospitals, as they have fortunately reported, and that it should be able to do so on the basis of a model that the municipalities themselves find useful and which at the same time provides the best services to the population. It is a fundamental question of whether the municipalities should have the last and decisive word about the practical organisation of the services for which the municipalities are responsible for health or whether it is such that the specialist health service, for example: the health undertaking must be able to impose on municipalities a special organisation of services if the health undertaking contributes to the partial financing of the measures, i.e. regardless of the competence of the municipalities. What is the principle view of the Council of State in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2992	I agree that the minority proposal represents a principle in this context, but it is a principle that I perceive was abandoned in the context of the Cooperation Reform and that I am surprised that the Workers' Party is now proposing, namely a principle to allow only one of the parties – in this context the municipalities – to dictate what a cooperation offer should be. I believe that it is an important principle of the Cooperation Reform that the measures on which the specialist health service and the local health service are to cooperate should actually cooperate and that there are two equivalent parties meeting and discussing this. If Stortinget adopts what the Workers' Party is proposing here, it puts a hook on that principle and gives one of the parties the right to veto this cooperation. It will not build on the principles of the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e2999	Thanks for the answer. I guess I have to say, here's the government council that gives the health company veto rights. We believe that the dialogue must be based on the fact that the health business is responsible for having the necessary skills. However, we believe that a practical organisation is within the law and the agreements that apply in the cooperation reform, which the municipalities must take care of. The Council of State agrees that the health business should dictate the practical organisation of e.g.: hospital beds? I'll ask you again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3006	No, I don't mean that. That is why, in my post, I was very clear that the two parties had to cooperate and cooperate, even on the offer that Health Nord is going to finance in the municipalities. It would be unreasonable to Health Nord if they – as the Workers' Party's proposal states – would pay an invoice for an offer over which they should have no influence at all, and where municipalities may have veto rights as to the nature of the offer. Municipalities are given a separate responsibility for offers for which they are given a statutory responsibility after 2016. That money will be transferred from Health Nord to the municipalities. There, of course, the municipalities can choose to say: we don't want to cooperate on this, we just want to establish this ourselves. But what we're talking about now is the part that Health Nord is still going to finance in addition to the commitment that Health Nord has, according to the Cooperation Reform. Then it would be unreasonable, as the Workers' Party states, for the municipality to have a right to veto the content of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3013	I'm outlining a solution for the Minister of Health. Can the Minister of Health consider the following: the health business imposes requirements on competence and quality and imposes requirements for co-location where, for example: provides an X-ray device. However, with regard to the clean care and treatment capacity – represented by hospital beds, which are otherwise at a slightly lower level of staff than immediate help beds – can the Minister of Health see that responsibility and decision-making authority are ‘inward’, as the Minister of Health uses to say, this field? In other words, is responsibility for the competence of the health business and for the practical organisation and placement of beds in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3018	I can imagine many good, wise solutions in this area. But I think that both the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen and I should have faith that people who work in Health Nord, and those who work in municipalities, also have many wise thoughts about this. So I'll leave them to find the good solution. I'm very clear to Health Nord, they have to cooperate with the municipalities on this. Neither party has the right to veto. They need to find a good practical solution to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3023	I listen to the previous line round, when the Council of State mentioned this with someone who might have a veto and not. I have a question based on what has been said, whether the Council of State considered it a sensible and wise way to enter into a cooperation agreement, as the Health Agency has done, where a set of demands for cooperation and funding by being very clear that there must be a centralisation and that the action must be established in one special place. Does the Council of State think that it is wise to act in the way that the venture has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3030	I do not intend to stand here and distribute dice on the behaviour of the various parties in this matter. What I think is that the majority's position and proposals in this matter provide a very good foundation for the two parties to sit down and start discussing – and find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3037	Every time one comes on a political visit to the three-four most northern hospitals in Troms, all politicians who are there get one question. I think I'll bring up that question for Bent Höie, for all his partymates who have been there have answered yes to that question, and that is, quite simply: could the minister guarantee the continuation of the hospital service in Skjervøy, Nordreisa, Kåfjord and Kvænangen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3042	No one who asks me to get guarantees that healthcare will look like it was yesterday gets a yes to that question. Then they would have had a health minister who travels around and guarantees that the quality of the offer will go down. Health services will always need development and change. So I hope that someone does not guarantee that healthcare will look like it is today. In that case, it would be very bad for the population. In this case, I think it's a good idea that we're all helping the municipalities and Health Nord sit down again, discuss this together and find good solutions, based on what's best for the inhabitants of this region. The representative heard in my speech that I was very clear that having a hospital offer in Nord-Troms is also an important part of the follow-up to the Cooperation Reform – and in line with the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3051	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3057	In North Norway we have a very long and proud tradition of hospital beds. Long distances, poor infrastructure and demanding climates have naturally played a central role from many decades back in time, and this built-in competence and half-line service, today referred to as KAD beds, is therefore a natural part of the development of the individual community, where there was a strong desire and subsequent need to ensure security, maintain a preparedness and provide a good offer, as required by the citizens. In most coastal municipalities in the north, the development of this high level of competence in the field has resulted, together with the reform of cooperation now demanding that all municipalities have such KAD beds, that these municipalities have a special advantage and prove to be particularly skilled in the field. Indeed, they provide high-quality services and have saved many a hospitalisation, which has provided an increased quality of life for individuals and has also been a good social economy. Over the years, additional skills and opportunities have also been added at the intersection of this two-way service with the specialist healthcare service. In our community and outside hospitals, telemedicine and the development of district medical centres have strengthened the quality of service provision. Furthermore, the development and upgrading of the road network has also reduced distances, and in addition to the professionalisation of the ambulance service, this has actually resulted in a change from transport to a prehospital service along our roads. In sum, this provides security in everyday life for the many who still have a long distance from a hospital, and in a society where we are still demanding high standards of health and safety. Then this is important. I am therefore very pleased that today we have a majority to look at models of decentralised specialist health services into the future national health plan, where we will state that all municipalities in North Troms are to be guaranteed an equivalent offer. In cooperation with Health Nord, who has a care-for-the-counter responsibility in this matter, and with the cooperation reform, the municipalities also got their responsibility, we today have very clear expectations that the further process with the municipalities will become a real dialogue, where alternatives to a location are looked at, and where the goal is that there will be a unified solution that can last over time. When the funding of the KAD funds is transferred to the municipalities from 2016 through the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation as part of the framework, such a common dialogue is necessary, so that each municipality can reach a common agreement and thus enter into a joint agreement with Health Nord – locally anchored and following the intention of the Cooperation Reform. With the funding cleared for 2016, there is room for such dialogue and conversion, which is now in fact likely to help further develop Sonjatun as a DMS in the region, while ensuring capacity and bed places in the municipality. This will serve both health enterprises and municipalities. And with today's development in telemedicine, existing hospitation that is being developed further, and the forthcoming strengthening of the road network, there are now many opportunities for good and increased interaction in North Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3072	There are several speakers who have called for the history of the hospital offer in Nord-Troms. I'm not going to invoke the whole history, but it's a question I've been concerned about before, even under the previous government, and taken up at regular intervals. I'm not going to use the term "fight," but at least it's been a strong wish from Nord-Troms to keep the offer you've had, and it's been clear after a few rounds of red-green. It wasn't as simple every time, to say it carefully. One of the themes that has been raised is who should have the right of veto in a way, cf. what the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen addressed in the exchange of views with the Council of State Höie. I can assure the representative Knutsen that the Council of State Höie answers exactly the same as the previous Council of State replied, which was then called Jonas Gahr Støre – exactly the same. It is the municipalities themselves and the health business that need to find the right solutions. I took that up with Jonas Gahr Støre when he was Minister of Health, in February 2013. I can quote some of the answers I have received. He writes that «so I believe Health Nord and the municipalities in North Norway are the best ones to make decisions about their health services. Moving decisions from the parts of the country to the department will not give more resources’. Furthermore, Støre stated the following: ‘I believe that, in a long-term country such as Norway, we are best served by making decisions on local services as close as possible to them. Health Nord and the municipality of Skjervøy are in this case better fit than the department located in the capital to determine how healthcare in this area should be further developed.’ I think that's a very good answer, and it's an answer that's true today. State Council Höie is quite right to develop a health service, not to continue yesterday's solutions, but to look at new solutions. Having said that, I am delighted to note that it is referred to the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee of 24 April, where he says: ‘There are no plans to weaken the funding base for hospital operations in Nord-Troms in 2016.’ The Roman Numeral Decision that lies within the setting is forward-looking. The minority proposal that the Workers' Party and some others are behind is really turning open the doors. There is nothing new to the debate, unfortunately. I am glad that we have a health minister who takes this debate a lot longer in time than the red-greens ever succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3098	Over the previous speeches, I would be so rude to add that we have a support party that also dares to take the debate on the future, and we do not necessarily lock ourselves in the past. There is no doubt that we are facing challenges in creating the future offer. Several have mentioned telemedicine, and so did I in my previous post, but today it is an immature sector. We have to do something about the tariffs, and we have to give education to those who are going to use this, so that they are safe on it, and there we are facing a big challenge. When we are going to work on the National Health and Hospital Plan, we also need to discuss transport, which is part of the health service. Transport costs are not always in line with what we want to decentralize. That's also a review we need. We have also been involved in the provision of skills. This also provides an opening and greater opportunity for a decentralised development of competences, which should also be part of the dialogue that the municipalities, Health North and the University Hospital of North Norway are going to engage in, as we are imposing on them today, and which is the future-oriented. The local competence must continue to be used, and in these cases it is very important in terms of local conditions, together with the health professional competence that they have. New health professionals must also be recruited there, and they must also be involved in a dialogue for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3109	Since the proposal came forward, there has been a movement, and it is positive. Well, it's not like Health Nord is the same guy with respect to how this is going to be. There is a dialog that has now been used as a new outline. I fear that dialogue is another word for dictate in this context. We know who is with the strong negotiating cards when you are going to engage in dialogue on these offers, and that is also a bit of the background for this. The importance, importance and usefulness of the hospital are well documented. This proposal also refers to some research carried out in this area. The hospital facility replaces hospital facilities for some patients and short hospital stays for others. We also know that a medically-responsive treatment that maintains contact with the local community and the care services that take care of the patient before and after withdrawal is better qualitatively than the corridor space in a highly specialised hospital department. It's this half-line service that's the starting point for the discussion here, and it's this half-line service in North Drums that's in danger. It is well documented that they deal with both the oldest patients and those with chronic diseases, which are the largest groups, but they also play an important role in an acute medical chain and in mental disorders. Then health north on autopilot without the involvement of the Storting would advance and centralize, and in practice a closure of the idea of the hospital as a near-half-line service in a gigantic area in North Troms. So the question is, is it enough for one to go into dialogue? Can a guarantee that this offer will actually be evaluated? There is no one here who has given so far, and the overwhelming support that the hospitals have in the whole of North Troms, despite the fact that all the municipalities in this area that it owes, and the county council – and all the parties that sit here – have been in agreement to adopt the continuation of today's hospital, and despite the fact that all the parties and several of those who have been on the pulpit here today have been in the hospital and guaranteed a continuation of the offer. A week before the election day in 2013, the impending depository representative from Right, Elisabeth Aspaker, guaranteed that the hospital offer will be continued in the form it has today. So it would be a huge lifting break from all the parties that are voting against our proposal, if they do. If even the proof is that some of these offers are being dropped, I'll say there's politics on all of them, worst of all. The proposal for a decision You say nothing but what is already confirmed in today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3120	I feel there is a need for some comments. Hospitals in Nord-Troms have had predictable funding. What was often mentioned was whether you should have your own pot over the state budget, like in Finnmark, or whether you should have it over Health Nord's budget. So, until the interaction reform and the uncertainties surrounding the financial instruments that came up then, there was. I'll come back to just that. I have seen that the representative Gudmundsen often talks about these immediate help beds. Instant help beds make up 1,7 beds in this region, or let's say 2 beds, which are counted into the large pot, and which are probably placed in the District Medical Center. They have a little higher staffing and a little stronger medical preparedness than the hospital beds. The representative, Kjeseth, says that we think we should freeze the situation. No, we don't think we should freeze any situation. Health professionals are justified on the part of municipalities. I have not heard that the health company has gone against having the decentralised structure. Everything should not look like it was yesterday. But there's no reason to change something that works well. We're looking at the cover statistics, we're looking at the statistics for who's being discharged back to home -- a very important indication -- and we're looking at the use of the hospital in Tromsø. These three parameters cut these hospital beds very well. That means these services are good. So to the representative of Korsberg, we fully agree with former health minister Jonas Gahr Støre that the Council of State should not sit and dictate anything, and that the Storting should not dictate anything. Therefore, it is very important to allow health companies and municipalities to interact with things. But when there was a blue light in 2013, then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre placed a clear order in the budget for the same year as it said: the health company is going to continue funding to the hospital beds. Now it burns a blue light, because the health company has decided to say where the individual bed should be, in place A or in place B. Then I expect the health minister to take a talk and clean up these things. There is no reason why the health care provider should decide whether bed A should be in place B or bed B should be in place C. The health care provider must require competence, safety and, where equipment is supplied, that it should be placed in a specific place. The location of each bed must then be a municipal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3133	I can follow very much of this debate from both sides, because cooperation between health professionals and municipalities should ideally be through a dialogue. The background of the case is that it has not done so. The background is that there has been a dictate from the enterprise where the municipalities have felt helpless. Therefore, there is a matter in Stortinget about this. It is true that all municipalities, county councils and professionals locally want to carry on the hospital business as she is today. They describe it as a success factor in the four municipalities, and that both the population, professionals and politicians believe that it is such an organisation that gives the municipalities the best preparedness, saves patients for long, tiring travels, and ensures that the people get help quickly if they get sick. The company has, in the past at least, called for a centralisation of supply. When the Council of State Höie is challenged today, when the representative Kjenseth is on the speaker's chair and says that we should now secure tomorrow's offer, and when Höie on the speaker's chair cannot guarantee further operation as today because it could be a guarantee of poor quality, I think there is reason to ask directly: If it is such that the Council of State and the others who have said similar, think that it is poor quality of today's supply, they must say it in plain language, because then people and professionals in Nord-Troms do not know their own best. I think it's a little funny to give such a signal when one has the highest renter to create patients' health care. I actually thought it should be demented: is it such that one thinks that today's supply has such poor quality that one is forced to centralize the supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3142	Here on the pulpit, it's almost said that we, who are in a minority, are backward-looking and not forward-looking. But we, who have negotiated with regional health companies about equivalence in order to reach cooperation agreements in the cooperation reform, know how difficult it has been to be equivalent partners in that debate. A small municipality, or now four municipalities with a total of 11,000 inhabitants, knows how difficult it is to be an equivalent party to a negotiation with a large health company. What we're talking about now is that it hasn't been a real deal, but an order to sit down and add this to one place, as a prerequisite for getting money in 2016. When the Christian People's Party is concerned with the offer in these hospitals, it's precisely because it's about innovation. There is no obstacle for hospitals to the use of telemedicine, there is no obstacle for hospitals to the use of new technologies. In fact, the hospitals may have gone far ahead of many hospitals using just this. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to know that the people of these four municipalities have good offers, and that there should be an equivalent dialogue between the health company and the municipality. It shows this document 8 that it has not been.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3153	I have a lot of understanding for those who think we need to develop healthcare continuously, and that there's nothing to write in stone. Then I think it's a little strange to say that I understand that – there is no one here that disagrees with it. There's some sort of deliberate misunderstanding of the basis for the discussion to come up with that kind of thing as an argument. What we're talking about here is an offer in a region where all the municipalities owe it, and the county – with great support of the population – think this is a good organization. So a question to Korsberg, who should decide? Are we going to be geographically located in Oslo, sitting here and deciding, or are we going to decide this in health regions? Isn't the point here that we're going to start organizing health services more aimed at the population, that we're just going to listen more to the municipalities, more to the patients? When we are going to organise the offer in this region, are we not going to listen to the people who live there, and what kind of experience do they have? When we see how the negotiation relationship here is, how the dialogue is organised, and who is with the longest straw, and who is with the short one – when all the municipalities can go towards a solution, and Health Nord still says that it should – then there should be some bells for those who are responsible for the dialogue between the municipalities and health professionals, at least. And when it comes to freezing: couldn't one then have suggested a time frame for how long this should go on? Could not then have suggested that you see this in conjunction with the medical plan, which was part of the discussion? No, one didn't want to go into the idea of going on, no matter what. What I mean is that the plurality is willing to lay down, too, to co-localize, and that the warm words about this supply in that region don't mean that much. There are professionals in Health Nord to listen to, it's not the people in North Troms a focus on in this decision. I would like to ask the question to the Minister of Health: if the municipalities think that this does not provide a better supply, who decides? And then a question to those who have put forward proposals for Decision I here in the Committee: What is it in the proposal that is not covered by current legislation? Then I don't talk about referring to the hospital plan. What is it? Is there anything there that is not already covered in decisions that are made in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3166	I think we have a good debate on how to organise the specialist health service, but there should not be an impression from the pulpit that the inhabitants of the municipalities have no alternative other than sick households. Many will be provided with specialist health services in hospitals and in Tromsø – fortunately. But what we're discussing here is just how to design this offer in the future, and we kind of have the country discussing a letter and how to interpret it. I have to say that I think that the Minister, who is the owner, has been very clear that we should sit down and find a good model of how to further develop this offer – also in the context of the new deal reform, that we will then get these immediate aid beds. I think it is good that we have secured funding in 2016. There is also some time and space to develop this offer further. Health offers are not static. I could say that, which also comes from a region with long distances. Among other things, Hallingdal Sukestugu took quite a while before the municipalities were able to consult, also with the health company, on how to best develop these services. There is also constant dialogue on how to find the best interaction, and that is perhaps what we are discussing here in depth: how detailed should the Stortinge go in and manage this kind of dialogue? And that's exactly why we don't go into the minority's proposal, because it doesn't open up a dialogue; it's a confirmation that it's the municipalities that are going to premise how the health company's money is going to be spent. I believe that you have to sit down and discuss and find good solutions for local, and it may be that the solutions we find today are completely different in five years. It must be opened for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3182	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3186	To the representative Kjersti Toppe, who challenges the majority if it's such a bad quality that the offer has to be dropped: I haven't talked about quality, I'm making that clear. This is about giving the municipalities veto rights as it would have been to give Health Nord or the University Hospital Nord-Norway veto rights. What we're doing here is just that dialogue, and I've actually got the sense that the municipalities want it to be the way it is. And then I've also come to realize that the University Hospital of North Norway is premising, and there are two parties that are trying to dictate each other. And that's not what I want to decide in the Storting, that one or the other should be right. I don't think any of them are going to get right for the future, and that's what we're going to solve. Then no one has talked about municipal structure here. I have no idea what the four municipalities think about the future around it, and I look forward to them making that decision in the same way that they have to find a good and future offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3195	It may almost seem that the representative Knag Fylkesnes was provoked to receive a clear answer to the question he had to me in the reply box. His clear questions were whether I could guarantee that things would be like now. He got an answer as it seemed that he agreed in his post, that answering yes to that question would be a very unwise answer. I'm glad we agree. Then, too, funding will continue in 2016. Here are two parties that both have had very clear views of what is the right solution. Through what is now a majority comment and proposal for a decision here, they will have a good basis for seeing that they need to reassemble and discuss and find a solution. Had one gone for the minority proposal here, there would have been no discussion, then the municipalities would have said, "We want it as it is now. That would have been the result, and it would have been an unreasonable result given that it is actually Health North that pays this bill. Then I also think that part of the contributions gives an unfair description of Health North in this case in general, because Health Nord is probably the one of our health regions that spends the most money on and cooperates almost with the municipalities to make decentralised offers. They do because they believe it is right, but also because Health Nord has no interest in patients who could get an offer in Nord-Troms being transported to Tromsø. It is both a bad health policy and a bad economy. They're the ones who have to pay for the trip for these patients, they're the ones who have to make an offer at the hospital. They have every interest in helping patients who can get a better offer in the municipality actually get it. There is probably also one of the reasons that Health Nord has been so forward-looking in helping to establish decentralised offers, and I see no reason why we should question them in the future. But I think it's a good idea that one based on what the Stortinge hopefully adopts from the setting that is now in place, achieves what I really believe here all of us agree that Health North and these municipalities in North Troms should find good, practical common solutions in this area. I feel that everyone has an interest in that. Then we have a slightly different view of what will be the best tool to achieve it, but I don't think it would be wise as a tool to give the municipalities veto right in that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3206	Then I just have to hurry and say that no one is so happy in the regional health company as I am – there is a lot of wisdom and good decisions in Health Nord, and I often talk to them. I just want to say first that our proposal is not that we should decide where to lay these beds. What we have said is that we believe that the practical organization must be based on how the municipalities find it useful, and with emphasis on good services for the people. It's a very open proposal. So I fully agree, as the Council of State has said several times, that you have to sit down and talk. It has been done in this case. And then, as it happened in 2013, you don't agree. Then I think that there should be a brokerage function into this, the Council of State must know its visitation time. The majority decision that lies here today says nothing and nothing and is a so-called heavy-out-the-window proposal. It says nothing that can solve this situation. I know this story about the infirmary beds in the North Drums. There's only one thing that can happen, and it's that the Minister of Health goes in and points to solutions, finds out with the parties what can be right, or that the owner instructs Health Nord that you, for example. takes into account the wishes of the municipalities as to the location of the individual beds. So I repeat, as I said instead: what is the health company going to demand? Yes, on soundness, on competence. It is the competence of the health care provider to make demands. It becomes almost unsustainable with the cooperation that I think is so important if it is that the health care company should dictate on single beds – whether it is in built A or built B that bed should stand. The health undertaking must require the appropriateness, competence and the health undertaking may impose requirements in the event of the placement of any x-ray or dialysis machine or other equipment. I fully agree that the health business should be able to make demands. For example, the health company should: – I know they have plans for such equipment in Nord-Troms – could say: OK, here we take two of those beds and link them up to X-ray or dialysis. That would have been wise. The health company Health Nord is wise. In this context, you're not. Then the Minister of Health must know his visit as owner. I expect that from a health minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3219	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3222	I think at least the Council of State should be able to make contact with Health North and say, wait, and we'll see this in context, for example. with the large health and morbidity plan. Starting a closure, a co-location, now it would be the opposite of what the Minister of Health here is calling for. What the Minister of Health basically says is that this is to be seen in a great context, and I think it is especially true that it is good to make major changes for the inhabitants of North Troms, with as much support as one has from the municipalities, county councils and the people now. And that's what this is all about, what it boils down to: listening to the people. And it's the people who feel here that they have a bad negotiation card. One must listen to the people and see how interesting hospitals are today and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3227	Kjersti Top has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3230	A clarification, given that the Council of State and other repeated occasions have referred to the proposal of the minority as a proposal that will give municipalities the right to veto today: it is not the case – as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen said. If you read the text, enter it in order to pass the disease rooms on from a model that the municipalities themselves will find desirable. It doesn't necessarily have to be exactly like that, but it has to be what the municipalities thought. And when you read the Health and Care Act § 6-1, it says that it is the Local Government that is to conclude a cooperation agreement with the Health Agency. Does it mean that an appointment is to be made which is not desirable for the municipalities? It is this proposal that had the local authorities in this matter, and the proposal from the majority does not refer to the word ‘sickness room’ as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3235	I don't need to extend the debate, but I just want to make a brief comment. When the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen refers to the fact that hospitals were fully financed in the 2014 budget, it is in the form of a note and a note does not provide full funding, because it states that it is to be included within the health insurance company’s own budget. So that's really not exactly right. I think you need to trust Health Nord. Many people have expressed that you do not have that confidence in Health North in this case, but otherwise you do. But I think you have to be so principled that in this case, too, you have to assume that Health Nord wants to give the best health offer to the people of North Troms too, that they add up to a good dialogue, and you find a solution that benefits North Troms. Then it's probably not possible to hide, for us who know the conditions a little bit in the north and in the north of Troms, that the four municipalities it's talking about, maybe aren't completely connected to the issue of locating the hospital offer, and so you'd like to have it in each of your municipalities. It is in many ways understandable, but then I just have to point out that the Female may have the biggest challenge of sucking to the Sonjatun Health Centre, just because you have the Female Mountain, which is often winter-bound. I think it was closed for more than 30 days last winter. The representative of Hoksrud can certainly do much more in detail than the undersigned can. But at least that's a big challenge. I believe that Health Nord, and probably also the media and the municipalities in North Troms, has brought this debate and sees the challenge ahead of them, but not least – as the Council points out – the opportunity that lies there to provide a good and better health service to the whole population of North Troms. And then you have to see if you can find a good solution to what is tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3246	I just have to enrich a little, as the representative Korsberg said. Firstly, the fact that the North Troms Regional Council has opted for such a model does not mean that the whole of the device should be as it is. Among other things, Kåfjord, with one bed he thought they could move their bed to Nordreisa. It's absolutely brilliant if they want to, but the Regional Council has agreed to have an overall view of this with location, and to make those decisions locally. So the representative said Korsberg that the order that was in the budget didn't matter. Well, the director and the director of the health company commented in meetings with health care representatives that it meant everything and actually was absolutely essential for the continuation of funding to Nord-Troms, because it came from the owner, the health minister, in the budget under a separate section. The owner has many ways of meeting the health business and acting as owner – responsible and within the framework of the health business. It is very good for the owner to enter the arena when things have locked themselves. That's what I think is good ownership of health companies. Again, I put these beds in the hands of the Minister of Health and hope he establishes a good dialogue with – initially – sensible people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3255	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3269	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of up to five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3276	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and for the fact that, in the vote, we are in fact some cross-political about the extent of alcohol damage and the need for a joint alcohol policy to reduce alcohol-related harm and alcohol abuse, which also includes the representative proposal. According to the World Health Organization, alcohol is one of the three main causes of poor health and premature death in Europe. In the public health report, the government has agreed to reduce the harmful use of alcohol by at least 10 pst. by 2025. A joint committee emphasises that a reduction in alcohol damage depends on our efforts to reduce the accumulation of alcohol consumption in the population and that empirical data show covariance between alcohol consumption per capita and the number of people who have harmfully high consumption. It is therefore necessary, the Committee believes, to maintain the objective of low average consumption of alcohol in the population while at the same time putting the search light on the drinking pattern and on third-party damage. It seems clear that alcohol abuse has a very high cost for individuals, for society and for working life. In this motion for a resolution, the Christian People's Party has put forward 15 concrete proposals. None of the multiple numbers are given in the option, even if many parties share the intention behind several of the suggestions. For the Central Party's part, I would like to make it clear that, when it comes to the proposal for maximum time for donation in the municipalities, we have a program of expansion that requires the maximum time to be at 0 p.m. 03, as today, but there are many good arguments that municipalities should and can make decisions on reduced shift times locally. When it comes to the proposal on tax-free quotas, which was increased last year, the proposal by the Christian People's Party has been clearer during the comitology process. The Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party now propose that the government in the 2016 state budget reverse the change in the tax-free regime introduced in 2014. The Labour Party, the Left and the Government Parties vote against. The centre party supports most other proposals from the Christian People's Party, except the proposal to make it legal for municipalities to donate money at a fee for hamlets. We believe that today's arrangement, where there is a cost to be based, is good. We also do not agree with the proposal to impose anti-abuse requirements in order to receive public support for sporting events. It is a commendable proposal, but in the context of national support for major national and international events, it may be difficult. We make an alternative proposal, supported by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, to ask the government to initiate a cooperation with the sports organisations to strengthen the work to make sport a non-alcoholic zone. There has been a debate on the fact that the Labour Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre repeat in their comments what the government said in the 2012 drug report that consumer product information needs to be limited and that one has to go through the interface between advertising and product information. I think there's a real problem issue in 2015 as in 2012. Moreover, introducing measures that can limit consumer product information does not have to be done by legislative changes. In the food sector, the government has put down a business group that has decided to make a common promise to reduce the salinity of industrial food. I think we need a similar common lift on the alcohol field. The government could take the initiative. The most eye-catching thing in the setting is that, in my view, the Right Party and the Advance Party write that they think it's okay and desirable to use attract prices on alcohol to get young people to visit out-serving earlier this evening. It shows that, despite the consensus of the Committee on the extent of harm and the consequences of alcohol use, there are also considerable differences between the batches in this field. The centre party has a note that points out that over the course of two years, the government has raised several alcohol policy issues that, in some cases, have led to a change in the pace of alcohol policy. In particular, the increase in the tax-free quota has contributed to this. So it's understandable that the Christian People's Party is making a proposal for action for a more solid alcohol policy. By doing so, I propose that we do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3304	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3307	The Labour Party is pleased that drug and alcohol policies now have a greater place in health policy. There is a broad consensus on prioritising drug use, but it has been more challenging to raise a debate on alcohol policy, despite the fact that harmful use of alcohol is one of our greatest public health challenges. As we get more knowledge about alcohol, we know that alcohol is the main entrance to over 90 pst. of those who are currently struggling with heavy drug dependence. Research shows, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that there is a clear link between total alcohol consumption in society and the number of drug addicts. So it's about the vast majority of people who control their own consumption of alcohol, and solidarity with the large minority who don't master the increased supply of alcohol. We also need a knowledge-based and not moralizing debate, we need to be able to lift this field. It is also about understanding politics, about an active and wanted policy, about the direction in which society wants to evolve. Therefore, the Workers' Party will further develop universal arrangements that allow a good society for all. We have good results. Norway suffers less health damage as a result of alcohol abuse than other countries. Price and availability are what works best. The wine monopoly has been an effective alcohol policy instrument for over 90 years. And we are pleased that the majority in the United Kingdom has asked the government to present a comprehensive investigation into the tax-free system, including a review of social policy perspectives. Therefore, the Workers' Party has not renewed its support for proposals relating to it in this case. The Labour Party also believes that active prevention is a political responsibility. When alcohol has so many consequences for the growth of so many children, for so much violence and abuse, loss of work and health, it surprises us that the government parties and the Left are no longer concerned with giving municipalities better knowledge of local drug and alcohol challenges. Such an overview should be a good tool, both in order to know what to prioritise and to sharpen the measures, but not least in order to measure whether the measures are taking, whether they have the desired effect. It is strange when it is just drugs and mental health that are to be given priority, and that it is to be done primarily in the municipalities. Then we need knowledge-based policies in this area. It is particularly important in the alcohol field, which still — we have to admit — is marked by much prejudice, shame and stigma. It is surprising to the Workers' Party that the Government Parties and the Left do not support the proposal to strengthen the AKAN and the prevention work aimed at pregnant women in general and more specifically at pregnant women with drug dependence, as well as closer cooperation with the sports movement in order to make larger parts of the sport of non-alcoholic zones. Later tonight, we're going to deal with the public health report. Faggots and visions have no value unless, as politicians, we dare to address those areas that have a direct impact on alcohol damage, or arenas such as work and sports, where we know that increased acceptance for alcohol makes it challenging for many workers, and the connection between sport and alcohol gives an unfortunate signal effect, especially to children and young people. The Labour Party believes that the ban on advertising should be maintained, and that in this area – as in so many other areas – we need to have an open debate to discuss the gap between advertising and product information, just as we have a debate on advertising and unlucky exposure to children and young people. Clearly, the right has problems with the Workers' Party being in favour of an open discussion on this border crossing without supporting proposals for measures to limit consumer product information. The Workers' Party supports the sale of locally produced products to support them under entrepreneurial activities, small-scale production, product diversity and the preservation of our cultural heritage. We believe that farm sales do not represent a threat to the Vinmonopole. In terms of treatment provision, the Labour Party believes that we should focus more on services aimed at whole families who have alcohol problems or where one has an alcohol problem. The Committee shall have, inter alia: have been to Modum Bad and received direct feedback from participants about the importance of involving the whole family, but also how difficult it is to get in place. Nor do we receive support from the government parties for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3324	On the right, it agrees that prevention is necessary to reduce alcohol-related harm. The proposalers themselves point to the joyous fact that the extent of drug use among young people has fallen markedly in recent years, and the youth data show that this trend continued in 2013. Even fewer young people have been drunk on alcohol than in previous years — and in the last 10–15 years there has been a significant increase in total alcohol consumption in Norway. This may seem contradictory, but it may seem that you have had a more continental drinking pattern. A national objective of reducing alcohol consumption has long been the embodiment of alcohol policy. We're behind this. In order to achieve such a reduction, the proposers believe that the existing instruments need to be continued, but that one should also introduce a number of new instruments. It may seem that some people are trying to make a story that our government stands for the liberalisation of the alcohol law. In this case, a number of measures to tighten up policy are promoted. We believe that one goes too far – in sum – with these proposals. Alcohol policy also needs modernisation, and it has little effect if it does not have legitimacy in the population. Government policy is to be seen as a modernisation, not a comprehensive liberalisation, as it is suggested. The main lines of the alcohol policy are fixed. At the same time, we believe that some inefficient schemes need to be reconsidered. It is necessary to be able to adapt the rules. For example, we believe that small-scale producers must be able to tell about their own products – just as the wine monopoly has put its entire product catalogue on the Internet. The proposers are promoting 15 proposals. Of course, some of us are for, others of course we are against. In the last category, the proposal calling on the government to propose measures limiting consumer product information in the media, together with a similar note, which several batches are behind. It says that consumer product information in the media has to be limited. This has aroused a certain debate, and it is our view in the Right that freedom of expression and freedom of the press must go ahead of the zeal after limiting the alcohol review in the media. Fortunately, the majority of the committee agrees with us on this. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has started work on an escalating plan for the drug field. Here alcohol will also become a topic, and we appreciate that the parties are united on this plan and look forward to the debate it will take place. Norway has the third lowest alcohol consumption in Europe, and in the last five years the recorded consumption has been reduced by 8 pst. The alcohol policy must be constantly modernised. The means of alcohol policy must not only have an effect; they must also have legitimacy, and people must have confidence in them. Paragraph 4(n) of the Cooperation Agreement states that: ‘The main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are established.’ There is a broad political consensus that Norway should have a restrictive alcohol policy. The main tool is — and will be — the State monopoly on wine, the ban on alcohol advertising, the rules on making donations and a set of other regulatory measures. That the government wants to make it easier to renew donations can hardly be said to erode the alcohol policy. It's primarily red tape. It must be more important to use resources for better control and criminal regimes in the event of a breach of legislation. When we open up the wine monopoly on Easter and Pentecost, it's an embellishment of an old-fashioned code that will strengthen the wine monopoly. The previous speaker was about the sale of locally produced sides and spirits. There is no challenge to alcohol policy. It won't undermine the Vinmonopoly. The government is concerned with simplifying and softening the legislation where it is logically correct. In addition, there are several ways of modernising alcohol policy. In the UK’s Question Time a little while ago, the Prime Minister asked to limit alcohol in meeting places where children are present, for example. at sporting events. Limiting access to alcohol, preventing alcohol and harm is an adult responsibility. The ban is not always the way to go. Much can be done to reduce the role of alcohol in bringing people together. This must include, inter alia: be socially accepted to say ‘no’ — a small word that too many people find so difficult to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3357	As surely as the rain comes after the sun, the Christian People's Party's proposal on alcohol policy comes to the fore in this Chamber. Today, despite the fact that the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left has established that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are fixed. A total of 17 proposals have been put forward. Many of them are characterized by the moral index finger, the little scratch on the fingers of a whip with a touch in it and the idea that alcohol issues are understood only by individual Norwegian politicians. Of course it's not like that. Let me start by stressing that the Progress Party also believes that issues of alcohol and consumption are important, from both a public health perspective, a business perspective and a law and order perspective. It is known that the World Health Organisation identifies alcohol as one of the three main risk factors for poor health and early death in Europe. This is why the aim of everyone is to actively prevent and pursue an alcohol policy that reduces alcohol-related harm and alcohol abuse. But we cannot close our eyes because even small Norway has become part of a large international world, which has led to a change in the drinking habits of the Nordics to become more continental. We cannot prohibit or regulate ourselves from doing this. No matter how many times some politicians want to swing the whip, Ola and Kari don't stop drinking. The overall objective of drug policy is to reduce the negative consequences of abuse for individuals, for people around them and for society as a whole. And the global target of 10 pst. reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 2025 is supported by government parties. Therefore, we are pleased to note that figures from the State Institute for Drug Research show that Norwegian alcohol consumption is soon back to the level in 1980, i.e. 35 years ago. In addition, total alcohol consumption seems to be low, i.e. both registered and unregistered consumption, to have flattened since 2008. Finally, the figures show that Norwegian youth debuts with alcohol later than before and actually drinks less than before. I would like to make a few comments on one of the proposals that were duly referred to in a comment article in the Evening Post on 10 June. It is the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, where the government is asked to come up with measures that limit consumer product information. Or said that most people understand: you want to limit the editorial mention of beer and wine in the newspapers. Post-out prompt: ‘Politics will edit the newspapers. Are they full down there?" Well, I can just talk for myself, and I'm sure I'll pass right through the prom check today. What is so dangerous about letting people read about differences and shades of taste, smell or filling in the various alcohol products, when the proposers from the Christian People's Party and the Centre, with the support of the Workers' Party and the SV in the form of a note, seem perfectly right to find the same information on the Vinmonopolet website? According to the Health Directorate, alcohol comes from salt, sugar and fat on the list of the main threats to public health. It is a pleasure to read on in the Evening Post Commentary of 10 June. I'm quoting again: ‘Should the government intervene with Allers and Norwegian weekly to limit the mention of cakes? What about cookbooks? Is there too much salt in the recipe? Should the authorities shut down the cupcake blogs? What about car tests? They can be promotional, and traffic is dangerous. Where are the limits to go?’ As a longtime journalist, I know that editorial reference and advertising are not the same. There are, on the contrary, strict ethical rules that separate this from each other. There are Norwegian newspapers — perhaps because today’s journalists no longer taste the goods in their working hours, as in previous times was quite common in Norwegian newspaper editorials.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3389	When the Christian People's Party is concerned with alcohol policy, it's not to repeat itself in every growing period, but because we know that there are very many individuals and young people suffering from alcohol abuse. We believe that each of us has a responsibility to deal with solidarity and care for those who are struggling, and their relatives. Alcohol abuse is one of the largest single costs in the Norwegian health system, but it is most expensive for individuals, young people and working life. It is our responsibility, in the political view of the Christian People's Party, to do preventive work. A common alcohol policy is about reducing alcohol-related harm and alcohol abuse — and not putting its head in the sand in this regard. Norwegian alcohol policy has been restrictive for a long time. As a result, Norway has lower alcohol consumption and fewer harms than the European countries do. This is why it is not an objective to have a European alcohol policy in Norway. It is a pleasure to see that the consumption of young people has fallen sharply. Nevertheless, overall alcohol consumption in Norway has increased significantly over the last 10–15 years. When the public health report – we will debate it later today – points out that the government will end up with the World Health Organisation's goal of reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 10 p.m. by 2025, it is important to provide not only words but also actions. There is no point in making changes that, in total, shift the boundaries of Norwegian alcohol policy in a more liberal direction. A reduction in alcohol damage requires that we are able to reduce the total consumption of alcohol in the population. Existing instruments need to be continued and a number of new instruments need to be implemented. That is why it is a pity that the government parties are voting against all the 15 proposals in the proposal for a representative, even if they think they are good. Much of the harm caused by alcohol abuse is linked to the majority, with relatively low consumption. There is no clear boundary between abuse and use, between harmful and non-harmful alcohol consumption. It is the large group with moderate consumption of drugs that primarily causes the most harm and disease, and that imposes the greatest costs on society. The Christian People’s Party therefore proposes, together with the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, ‘to draw up a social account in order to highlight the enormous costs of alcohol use for society, working life and not least for individuals and their families’. We who know this privately know the cost. Social accounts can help politicians to further develop our alcohol policy and have a good basis for knowing what we should prioritise in the long term. The Christian People’s Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, proposes to ‘amend the alcohol law to reduce the maximum allowable time from 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.00’ from national team. Research from SIRUS shows that this will reduce violence. The change is in line with recommendations from both police and professionals. Still, we don't have to do anything about it. It says, where it's will, it's way. If we want to bring down the damage, we also have to find a way. Nor can we say anything but that the claims from the government parties that reducing the turnout time to noon. 02 will create issues like accumulations of people and uncontrolled afterplay, almost taken out of the air. Then there is the concern of the business and travel industry government parties. This is an honest argument, and it should be said — rather than saying that someone wants to do something about Norwegian alcohol policy. In danger of repeating myself: the Christian People's Party wants an offensive, solidarity alcohol policy. It is not useful with a lot of focus on good support for drug treatment and substance protection, if we are not willing to do the prevention aspect, which is not politically correct and not popular, but which is absolutely necessary to achieve the goals we are going to set, namely reduction by 2025. The Christian People's Party brings up the proposals we are alone about, and the proposals we have with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3417	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3420	First of all, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party, which is the driving force behind alcohol policy. It's important that someone fights to limit consumption. We have largely succeeded with the alcohol policy in Norway when we compare ourselves with other countries, but we can always get better. There is little doubt that alcohol is the drug that causes the most harm. At the same time, it is also a legal drug. It gives us some challenges, because it's going to be possible to get hold of, and it's legitimate to use in social contexts. Nevertheless, a broad majority would like to limit the use and thus limit the harm caused by alcohol. To succeed, work needs to be done on a broad front, but, in particular, prevention and early intervention will have a good effect. For this reason, growth policy may be the most important area to be pursued in order to succeed. It is mainly in the municipalities that this work is to be done. For the Left, it is important that those who know the challenges in their municipality are also those who find the best measures to promote public health and limit drugrelated harm. We have to make the municipalities responsible, so that they use the space for action contained in alcohol legislation to achieve common goals. In order to be able to reduce levels, we need to know why people have or develop a drug problem. There may often be complex causalities. We don't know enough about what is inheritance and what is environment. But we know something -- and that's that we can do something about the environment. For those who start early, the risk of developing alcoholism increases. Over 40 pst. alcohol users drank a lot at the end of their youth. Having experienced severe traumas in childhood increases the risk of becoming dependent, and lack of support from friends and family increases the risk of addiction. Relations and networks are important to work with. The consequences of alcohol are well known – poor health and early death, violence and crime. It's spending a lot of money on us as a society, and especially on health. When the Left has chosen not to vote for any of the proposals, it has to do with the fact that we are four parties that have an agreement that says something about alcohol, and that's the platform. Then, for the autumn, we are going to discuss an escalating plan for the drug field, and I believe that part of the suggestions that have been made here is naturally part of the discussion on the escalation plan. So it's like some of these measures clearly have a budgetary impact, and it's also regulated in the agreement between the four parties. It's not to be awkward or difficult, but we think it'll be a little off the clock to go into the discussions about some other proposal now. Then we think it would be better to have an overall discussion on the escalation plan and in the budget negotiations, where all four parties are sitting at the table. Of course, it's a point to have with the widest possible majority in Stortinget. Now we have the opportunity to discuss some of these points. We have also done so in dealing with the public health communication we are going to discuss later today. Budgetary negotiations are also a process in which all parties are involved. But again – I want to commend the Christian People's Party for being a driver of alcohol policy. We still have something to learn, and everyone can get better. I also believe that with regard to growth policy, some of the structural reforms we are currently engaged in, with both larger municipalities and coordinating several of the small welfare seats in the municipality of Norway, can be involved in the prevention and the relationship creation that we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3443	I agree with the proposers that we need to take active preventive action to reduce alcohol-related harm. I am pleased that the proposers are promoting the voluntary sector and the AKAN as important actors. The rapporteurs and I agree that the main lines of the alcohol policy should be firm. This will include, inter alia: to maintain the authorisation system, the wine monopoly, age limits, fees and advertising ban, as well as a well-functioning follow-up system. The government is taking the challenges of alcohol policy seriously. Prevention efforts are being managed within the framework of public health communication, and efforts for those who are developing or have an alcohol problem are coming back to the escalation plan for the drug field. The notification of the primary health service and the forthcoming health plan are also relevant for this work, and it is also the Youth Health Plan, on health strategy, coming next year. Overall, these documents will show how the government continues its policy on alcohol. We want to keep the main lines because they actually produce results, while also making simplification adjustments to ensure the legitimacy of the policy as a whole. We remove some unnecessary regulation, and inefficient mechanisms should be made more effective. As for my view of each of the 15 proposals that have been put forward, I refer you to my written contribution to the matter. Some of the proposals are proposals that are under evaluation or preparation, some are more or less taken care of, others are proposals that the government opposes. The fact that one is voting against the proposals of the government parties and the cooperation parties should not surprise anyone. There is not a new tradition under this government, it is a tradition that has been in Stortinget, at least as long as I am aware, that proposals that are within areas such as: the government is already working on, is – and has almost always been – disarmed by government parties, regardless of which parties it is. However, I would like to take this opportunity to address some of the questions related to product information and advertising. This is a challenging terrain. I agree with the proposers that consumers should be able to obtain information on the content of alcoholic products. I want to make sure that I take every opportunity to address this matter with the EU and the EU Member States. I record that there are also more countries than Norway that want a change here, which is a prerequisite for the development of the EU in this area. I would like to refer to the Stortingen's treatment of this, at the latest at the examination in document 8:29 S on 17 February 2015 and the decision that was made there, which I follow up. With regard to the media's mention of alcohol, I think I have a different approach than the proposers. We would like journalists to write less about alcoholic beverages, but we cannot or should not limit freedom of expression – that is my clear opinion. Advertising disguised as independent publicity is something else. It is already banned today. I would also like to add a few words to the proposal for a change to the advertising ban. The details of the advertising ban are made clear by regulations. Therefore, it is the proposal for regulatory changes that has been out for consultation. I have proposed some changes aimed at meeting the audience's expectations for product information in order to ensure the legitimacy of the advertising ban as a whole. We still want to protect the public from product-driven information. We have therefore assumed that we will only allow information that is given in some form and in a form that requires that information be actively sought. I suggest that regulatory changes can take effect in a few months' time. However, I do not want to hide that the work is technically demanding, and I am concerned that we should work closely with the consultation recordings to ensure a good result. I see that there will always be new borderline cases when you, like here, introduce new exceptions to a general rule. Neither the industry nor the public authorities can expect the adjusted rules to override all interpretations once and for all. Such a result would require an absolute advertising ban or a ban on advertising, and I believe that both of those solutions would not be in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3467	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3470	At first, I thought the Minister of Health had an ambition that the policy should be developed here in Stortinget, so it was desirable that the government parties also be allowed to say a little about opinions and ambitions. My question is based on the fact that several of the parties visited the Blue Cross yesterday. They were worried because it's a counselor who's out at the hearing. Of course, we do not have the supervisor here at Stortinget. They feel that it is going across the family therapeutic treatment services that are now being developed by no longer following the practices that are currently in Modum and elsewhere. If a member who is part of a family also wants special treatment at that place, they must now go independently of it and visit DPS or other offers, but not through fixed access to e.g. a Blue Cross offer or Modum. Can the minister say anything about what he thinks about it? It's very bad if the need for structure should destroy good deals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3477	The representative has also asked me a written question about the matter, which I – if I do not remember completely wrong – signed today, so I think the answer will come quickly. It is absolutely right that what has been out on the hearing has produced reactions. We have also been made aware that some organisations were not invited to make hearings. It has also taken over the Health Directorate, and has extended the consultation period, and many of the hearings that have come to the Directorate deal with this issue. I am concerned that the families will get a good offer. It will apply in such a way that, based on their own situation, they need an offer, but in some cases involving the family in treatment will be essential to provide good results for those with a dependency problem. But this is also not least a professional question, which I believe we have received very clear feedback on in the consultation round of the directorate. So the directorate continues to work on this. But I am going to elaborate on this in the written reply to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3486	It's great to have the Council of State coming along. The Blue Cross came yesterday, but others have come earlier, which meant that we sent over the question. I have a question for the Minister: What does the Minister think is the most important measure to prevent damage due to excessive alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3493	For the first issue, it was not least the centre of the summit that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had, where the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the two party leaders were present. What I think is the most important thing is the sum of the Norwegian alcohol policy. I don't think one can pick out a single measure. The fact that Norway, together with our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, has Europe’s most stringent alcohol policy in terms of the combination of advertising bans, regulated selling and gift periods, a wine monopoly regime and the use of fees, contributes to important prevention not only from a public health perspective but also from a dependency perspective. So it's very important that we put our efforts in place specifically to protect children against a polygamous use of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3500	In public health, the government has joined the global target of at least 10 pst. reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 2025. I have previously asked the Council of State what the government will do to achieve this goal, and then the answer was the norms for the withdrawal of grant. In addition to the norms, what kind of measures will the Council of State take to achieve the target of 10 pst. the reduction of the harmful consumption of alcohol must be achievable?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3505	I believe that the objective of reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 10 pst is both achievable and important. Sometimes when the representative asks about this, I hear that the goal is to reduce alcohol consumption by 10 pst. It's not what it says, it's the harmful alcohol consumption that's going to be reduced by 10 pst. Many of the instruments associated with this are already in a very strict Norwegian alcohol policy, which is being pursued, while also having to be committed to targeting measures. One of the targeted actions has recently been referred to by the representative, which is linked to a more responsible search policy. It is also important to put in place measures where action is most effective, namely against children and young people. We will also come back to that with further action on the youth health strategy, which will be presented next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3512	It is not easy to provide measures for children and young people whose mother and father buys a full tax-free quota when they travel. Then the children do not have as much as they should have said. What does the Council of State think about the radical change in the tax-free quota last summer, and that tax-free sales have gone up and sales at the Vinmonopole have fallen? When we think that the Vinmonopole itself is going to be a tribe of Norwegian alcohol policy and we're reducing the basis of the Vinmonopolet, what does the Council of State think about what was done last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3517	Firstly, I must say that the most radical change in the tax-free system was made under the previous government. It was a unilateral extension of the quota, which not least opens up to, for example. the purchase of wine in a box at tax-free, which many had not had the opportunity to do before. The change that this government made was not so radical. It requires a substitute for the tobacco quota in alcohol. Tobacco is also a major public health problem. So I'm basically a little surprised by some of the strong words that some of the red-green politicians use about this change, given that they themselves were responsible for a significantly more radical change in the tax-free system. And then we've also made sure that there are contractions in that area, for example. the way people meet the tax-free. I think those who come to Gardermoen now see that alcohol has been withdrawn – that's not what meets the families when they land in Norway. You have to go find the alcohol in the tax-free at the Gardermoen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3524	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3529	Today, when I choose to speak in this debate, it is to talk about alcohol, which is going into sport. Through the media, we are increasingly witnessing scenes of pleasure on the track or arena and celebrating with alcohol. It's not good – I'm responding. Many sports arenas have applied for or are now applying for grants in all the municipalities of the country. This applies to alpine hills, in the case of football stadiums and handball or ice hockey arenas. In this way, sports and alcohol are more closely linked and undermined by the Sports Association’s own legislation on combating the use of alcohol in sport. The paradox is that the Sports Association teaches practitioners and trustees to show strong moderation in alcohol. Is it ethically right for political authorities, local or national, to cover the table in sports arenas with alcohol? Sports talk about role models in the breaks of the sponsors throughout the country today – over a glass of wine. Sport has always taken social responsibility and has contributed positively to non-governmental organisations, such as The Church's Bymission. This work is very respectful, and as role models, players and trainers can really make a positive contribution to individuals for an important cause, along with the Bymission. Through the Bymmission, people in need of post-drug protection have contributed as volunteers, e.g. in Mjøndalen Football, since 2009. I think that people with alcohol challenges and their family members — children or others — have an additional need for safe settings and non-alcoholic football arenas. The Norwegian Football Association cooperates with the Alkovettorganisation AV-OG-TIL and encourages trainers, team leaders and players to reduce alcohol in the football community. I want children and young people to have non-alcoholic role models that show pleasure in sports and that celebrate without alcohol — even in the closet. I want those who do not want or are not able to drink alcohol to have a safe place in the sports world. I consider this a political responsibility – an equal responsibility to the sport itself for its practitioners. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for its good proposals on offensive and solidarity in alcohol policy, especially as regards the world of sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3552	Actually, I wondered if I should take the floor or not, but I can't do anything when I hear the debate. You're worried that the tax-free sales go up on the Gardermo, while it goes down on the Vinmonopole, but if the total sales go down, at least that's good. Then you should at least agree, because you say that you are concerned that the total sales should go down. I hear representatives say – and it sounds like it’s the only truth – that just by reducing the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02 The problems caused by alcohol use are decreasing. That's not the case in the area I'm from. Because that's where we've done it, and so the result is the exact opposite. The problems are going up, crime is going up, despite the fact that you've reduced the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. I believe that what is important is to address those who are at risk and to ensure proper prevention. The council will come back with a case around this with care and how to make it better. I think it's very important to go with the youth. I think you're far too small to go with those we really want to reach early, to prevent them from choosing alcohol or other things when they're going to party. You're worried about the change that was made in the tax-free quotas. The result was that you made sure that one thing you're busy doing is tobacco, you could replace it with a bottle of wine. I think that the health damage will be less of a bottle of wine than of tobacco – if that's what you choose. I very much agree that it is important to do things for those who are at risk, and there we are going to do good things, but I think that the Christian People's Party should respect an agreement that says that alcohol policy is firm. That's what it's going to do, because we're following the agreement that we have in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3565	The representative Toppe was concerned because the government does not go against what she calls lure prices, as in good Norwegian, in folklore, called ‘happy hour’. The reason for that is a desire to be able to make people go out at different times. It's also how young people find it expensive to go out into town. They stay at home both before they go out and after they have been out, and then they give up without any control. There's no guards there, there's no police there, so there's no supervision from any superiors. We believe that by letting the patios offer a so-called happy hour, where prices are reduced somewhat, the youth might try to go out at other times. Today's young people like to go out around midnight, and if one in addition was to reduce the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, they're going home after two hours. It leads to cows, toiling, pushing, fighting, etc. Bollestad thought it had been taken out of the air that people go on after-play if you reduce the turnout time from at noon. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. I wonder where the representative, Bollestad, thinks the youth is doing well when they leave the premises. I must also say a few words to the representative Haukeland Liadal, who expressed concern about the combination of sport and alcohol. I agree that youth should experience sports events as safe and good, and that alcohol should not necessarily be given in all public areas. However, it is that international sponsors come to Norway, pay in expensive judges to support Norwegian sport, they help secure the economy of sports events, and the sponsors expect an experience in line with what they can get at similar events abroad. If they don't get it, they'll probably spend their money elsewhere. This will lead to economic damage to sport. In a way, everything is related to everything in that question. Sports should be a great experience for both children, young people and ordinary audiences, as well as for the sponsors, and for sponsors the grant belongs to the grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3574	We're talking about one of the biggest health problems we have. When we, the Right Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, met, in the hearing on the Russian Federation, there were several people who made the point that no one is talking about the big river horse in the glass cage, namely alcohol. No one dared to talk about it. But it's actually often the beginning of all the other drug challenge, and we have to dry up to it. When we talk about less violence from 9 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, there is no Christian People's Party, it's SIRUS that refers to the numbers. When the Advance Party and the Right write in a note that there will be more postplay of it, I ask: Where did they take it from? We all have young people and we know that they're going out, but those numbers I want to see where they're taken from. The combination of alcohol and sports doesn't belong anywhere, because it's actually going to be an arena for everyone. But when sports and alcohol are mixed, it is not an arena for everyone. Then there's someone who's abstinent, who can't go there. Then the question is whether you and I want to be part of a solidarity alcohol policy and say that no, we don't want it there – in solidarity with those who can't be there then. That's what this is about, not foreign sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3583	There have been some things in the posts that I have to comment on. To the representative Hoksrud and taxfree: It is documented from figures that it is problematic because an undermining of the position of the wine monopoly. It is, of course, a main line in our alcohol policy, and if changes lead to an undermining of the position of the wine monopoly, at least the majority found it problematic. When it comes to the time of donation and the maximum amount of time spent in the municipalities: although we do not support the proposal, what is stated in the notes is true that national studies have been carried out where information from many municipalities and cities in Norway has been collected showing the relationship between the time of choice and the time of donation. It is true that there is a maximum donation time, and each municipality is responsible for alcohol policy and can adopt local authorities within the maximum time. When it is said that one cannot go into these proposals because one has an agreement, someone has to tell which one of these proposals would threaten the main lines of the alcohol policy. Not one of them wants to believe the main lines of the alcohol policy. That's the way we can vote for them, all men. To the representative, Mr Wold, on this subject, with the tipper for alcohol: in that case we are just disunity. That one should lure young people with cheaper alcohol to get them to go to town, I thought it was a very bad idea. Finally, a few comments on this with consumer product information and on how to regulate it: I said in my post that there are ways to do this that don't necessarily have to mean a change in the law, but that we can lift in a flock. My experience – I have to admit it – is that I work hard to go out in the media and talk about alcohol. I get so many negative feedbacks, and that's the only area of politics where society reacts like that. I have thought I might quit, but I have chosen not to, but I have had to screen my kids from reading my e-mail after I have said some things about alcohol. So there's a hippo in the glass cage, and that we have a community where we can't talk about alcohol, I think I'm sad, when it's actually one of the biggest health problems we have. I think we can all take that with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3598	To the last thing that the previous speaker said, I fully agree, because I definitely believe that if something is important, it is that you should be allowed to express yourself without risking being confronted with that kind of counterattack. I actually thought that the most important thing was that alcohol consumption went down altogether, but I heard a representative who said that this is undermining the wine monopoly. For me, the wine monopoly is not necessarily the most important thing, but I very much agree that we should have measures that can help reduce alcohol consumption. It also states that the wine monopoly is there, but the most important thing must be to actually reduce alcohol consumption in total. Sometime later, we didn't do anything. In any case, it has now been decided to assess this with alcohol in all cars operating on passenger transport for remuneration. It's a pretty big thing that happens in this area, after the ministry has gone through and come back with suggestions on how to do this in the future. Of course, our challenge is that, in relation to accidents, alcohol consumption is relatively stable. Noise goes up. That means that we have two challenges that we have to work with to prevent people from driving drunk, whether alcohol or other drugs. But there's also work to look at how to solve those challenges. To the question of where I have picked up my numbers from: Yes, I have actually picked them up from the police at home in my own district, which has shown that it is reducing the turnout time from at noon. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, has not had the effect you thought it would have. The result is more crime and more problems, and the police have to travel around and stop them. Police are thus facing a much greater challenge than when they are in controlled premises – with controls and guards – in order. As I said, I fully agree. It is definitely not a goal for me that we should have the highest possible alcohol consumption in Norway. There is no target for us to get up at European level. But we might have a slightly different way of doing things because we have the Vinmonopole and relatively high charges, and that means that many people pick up when they're outside the country's borders. So we have a pretty big consumption that way. But I totally agree: I'm concerned that we're going to do something to the groups that are in the risk zone. I am concerned that we should do preventive work for all, especially for children and young people, because it can help prevent them from starting up with alcohol. I think we all agree. But it's not a big problem for me if I go past a shelf where there's wine, and if I read in a newspaper, it's just to stop by. And that's the way it is for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3611	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3614	I thank Hoksrud for taking credit for the alcohol lock, but it was a proposal from the Christian People's Party that allowed us to get alkolocked. When we're concerned about the Vinmonopolet, it's because it's been a bauta in Norwegian alcohol policy. We started the wine monopoly because we had a huge alcohol problem in 1919 and 1920, and the World Health Organization has seen Norway because we have a wine monopoly that makes us have an alcohol consumption of the lowest in Europe. With regard to the proposal for a reduction of shift times from 1 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, did not just come from SIRUS, but also from the police, so there's nothing we've picked up from just one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3637	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3644	First, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contribution to putting the palliative issue higher on the political agenda. I would also like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in dealing with this important matter. I would like to thank all those who came to the hearing, and not least I would like to say a thousand thanks to all those who work with and engage in the palliative work in Norway. The Committee greatly appreciates the good work done, while listening with interest to recordings about developing the palliative field further. I am therefore pleased that, as a committee, we are raising the palliative field a long step forward, not only with good comments, but also with concrete proposals which, after all, are unanimously adopted here today in the Chamber. The Committee is clear that the palliation field needs to be significantly strengthened in Norway. I would like to quote from the setting: ‘The Committee considers that Norway should have a clear ambition to be the leader in palliative care. In order for this to become a reality, more systematic and planned work needs to be done, willing to learn from other countries, open up different models and thinking in palliative work, strengthen competence at all stages, use more resources, focus on diagnosis neutrality and take into account that palliation in many contexts means more than treatment and care at the end of life.’ This is ambitious, concrete and binding, but the committee sees that you have to think long-term and holistically and turn many stones before you can do this completely. To this end, the Committee calls on the unanimous Government to carry out an overall public investigation, a NOU, of the palliative field, with a broad body of representation from different disciplines, and where children’s palliation is part of the work. The Committee also sees the need to work towards the development of the field in parallel with the NOU work, providing many leaderships in the form of clear comments, as well as two committee proposals dealing with the identification of the need for outpatient child palliative teams linked to all health regions, and looking at the possibilities of advanced home hospitals for children. The Labour Party for its part supports the Christian People's Party's minority proposal No. 1-3, which deals with better organisation for home visits of regular, wide-ranging empowerment in palliation among health professionals and a comprehensively adapted offer for seriously ill children and their families. I would also like to refer to minority motion No. 4 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, dealing with enhanced skills, a better offer to children and the organisation of a variety of offers, including different hospice models. I've said it before, and I'd like to say it again: nothing is more important than this. The whole palliation field needs development. We're going to learn from others. We have to put in place new models, like hospice. We should not at least lift the children's palliative field significantly. Hearing recordings from Enggrave School and Kindergarten in Skien tell us how important the work is also outside the health care system in terms of childcare. Finally, the JLOB recordings have been and are very important. The exposure, and not least the competence and international networks of this organisation, is significant and is of great value in the further development of children’s palliation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3662	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3665	The NRK gave us a glimpse of soothing care last weekend. We got death close by the gripping story of Ingrid, the woman who in winter, seriously ill, told us about the good relief treatment she received at Hospice Lovisenberg. Unfortunately, last Saturday we heard the family's experience of Ingrid's last days, as they felt little dignity. This is probably sadly the story of the extremes of the soothing care we have in Norway today. It makes a strong impression on all of us when dying patients are afraid to be of concern and are anxious to massage the caregivers. We get sad when relatives feel very insecure. The worry about losing close relatives is great, and it often gets so infinitely heavier if the recent experience is not safe. In the right we have not been satisfied with the care of dying patients. We believe that this field of health care has been down-priority in recent years. Other countries have taken major and important steps to strengthen the palliative field. Hospice philosophy has great impact in many countries. In Norway, you are lucky to meet it in the usual care service. We have asked ourselves whether one may have been too preoccupied with the healing element in the treatment and too little care for people who can no longer be cured. The medical profession has traditionally not had a strong focus on the treatment of dying patients, but we know that both doctors and nurses have strong opinions and a desire to help build a stronger palliative health service in Norway. It is therefore time to strengthen this subject, and I am happy that we have a government that is so clear on this. 15 years after the last review of care for dying patients, our government ordered a technical report on this because there was a need for more knowledge and expertise, both about what we have today, and what we need in the future. I note that today's red-green parties are promoting or supporting many proposals to strengthen palliative care in Norway. It must be allowed to say that the good intentions unfortunately come late from that edge. After their eight years of government, the time was running out for a decisive strengthening of the field. However, we are pleased that an overall health and care committee has listened to important consultations, and that the government is now asked to carry out an overall public investigation, as the rapporteur explained in his statement, a public investigation in which children's palliation is also a natural, integrated part of the work. We are also pleased that a Joint Committee is committed to identifying the need for outpatient teams in all health regions in relation to children's palliation and to exploring the possibilities for advanced home hospitals for children. There are many tasks to be addressed after years of depriving this area. First, we have to give dying patients more choices. That's just 14 pst. dying at home, a very low figure compared to other countries. Half of Norwegian patients die in hospital. We have to make sure that dying and seriously ill people feel that they have several real choices as to where and how they want to spend the last days of life. Secondly, we must ensure that patients in the final phase of life meet with professional competence. Caring for dying patients is demanding; health care requires a high level of competence. Therefore, it is a primary objective of our government to build a professionally strong healthcare service. The decision-makers play an important role, but so do the nurses in the municipalities. It is also the case that health and care managers have a particularly high responsibility for prioritising professional development in the field of care. It is not just patients or relatives who suffer when departments do not drive professional development and empowerment on palliation. We must not underestimate the negative impact of insecurity on health professionals when they have to perform tasks that they do not fully master or have competence. But the most important thing is that we make sure that patients in a vulnerable and difficult situation meet as best they can. In the primary health message presented by the government in the spring, new ideas about how health professionals in municipalities should be organised are announced. We need more teamwork, where multidisciplinary health professionals meet the dying patient. It's just how the different and unique needs of each patient are better met. Our goal and our vision in further work must be that more and more patients will experience the final phase of life that some have called a safe landing site so affordable in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3691	Unfortunately, the challenges facing the health care system, the patient and its relatives at the end of their lives are a subject that has received too little attention. I myself remember my first meeting as a municipal politician more than ten years ago, with some engaged women who wanted to build a hospice on Romerike in Akershus. I had never heard of this concept before, but was obsessed with the whole idea. I took part in a smaller grant as a start-up capital for these industrious women. I still have to smile when I think about the debate that spread in the local government hall. One of the local government representatives was shocked that we wanted to send dying people to the same place that we sent our homeless drug users. There was full confusion between the terms ‘hospits’ and ‘hospice’. One of the first meetings I had after being elected to Stortinget was with the same women. The whole Akershus bench was invited. They brought an older man, who told about his wife's last time at Hospice Lovisenberg. After he had told his story, the whole Akershus bench agreed that we would have this. Unfortunately, the next few years were marked by a vote of no representation. It is also worth noting that in 2011–2012 the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative with almost the same title as this we are dealing with now. At that time, too, it contained several proposals. The Party of Workers, SV and the Centre then chose to write in their one note that they referred to the letter of the Minister of Health and Care, that they joined it, and that they would not comment on individual proposals except to note that they had budgetary implications and were at home in the budgetary process. It's interesting to see how three parties can go from rejecting everything, without even having their own comments, to now believing that Norway has all the prerequisites for being a leader in this field. A greater declaration of trust to the Right-Fremskrit Party government shall be sought for a long time. Through government cooperation and further through budgetary cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement has already put in place a few small pieces, if you can call it that. These are small things that are individually very important, and that in a good way show that we're on our way to something. Time does not allow me to go into the grips we have already taken, or the suggestions that are being promoted, but it is basically okay, as the setting is very good and has explanatory notes. But I'll remark this with a NOW separately. This is not in the original proposal but was proposed at the hearing held by the Committee. There were many good posts in this hearing, but it was the idea of NOW that kept me awake that night. The next day I said to the Minister of Health, "I want a NOW." And that's what it is. The Right-Fremskritsparte government has given clear signals that palliative care should be improved, with a greater diversity of offers and a clear expectation that knowledge and competence, research and professional development in palliative treatment should be developed. It makes a strong impression to meet parents who have experienced living for a long time with seriously ill and/or dying children. As Mother herself, I think no one should have to experience such pain, but the reality is unfortunately that for some, and we just have to do this better – for the child concerned, for the parents and not least for the siblings. The Norwegian Association of Psychologists made important contributions to just that. Strong professional environments have helped us forward, masted a lot and fed us with information year after year. They haven't let me forget the field in these years. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank those who have patiently and purposefully fought for a better offer and increased competence. Although I don't like to do this, today I will draw out Astrid Rønsen, who is the lady who for frightening many years ago taught me that hospice is about facilitating that people can complete their lives, and not just wait to be allowed to die. I also want to bring out Natasha Pedersen, who I met the first time after I was elected to the Stortinget, and who taught me a lot about how it feels to live with a seriously ill child over several years, what it does to you, what it does to the sibling, what's missing, and who not least taught me about child palliation. The Right Party government wants to do this better, with a NOU, with the grips we've already taken, and with the plans we've already made. I feel confident that this field too will receive in the future the attention that it needs and that it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3723	It is a political responsibility to ensure serious ill and dying care and dignity in the final phase of life. The Christian People's Party has proposed a series of necessary measures to promote active life support at the end of life. It is good that there was a unanimous committee that now asks the government to set up a sample to carry out a broad survey of the provision of services to the seriously ill and dying. This initiative is important and can provide an important basis for cross-policy action in the field. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that today's situation requires immediate action as well. Existing research provides a good basis for us to implement the most necessary measures that will strengthen the supply of people who are at their most vulnerable. Most people who die spend their last days in the home municipality. Dicent health care providers are particularly vulnerable. Older people experience getting tossed between different levels of care in the last weeks of their lives. The Hospice tanker must be integrated into Norwegian nursing homes. We need to get more doctors in the nursing homes to ensure patients have good pain relief and proper medication at the end of life. The Christian People's Party proposes 600 palliative hospital beds in the municipalities by 2020, which involves sheltered bed units and staff with special competence for care and care at the end of life, both nurses, health professionals, psychologists and priests – those with good competence. Many patients have a desire to spend the last time at home. Much good is done around Health-Norway, but unfortunately there are also examples of poor communication, lack of cooperation between the different levels of care, lack of skills and too few employees, which may make this difficult. The doctor knows the patient over time and has overall responsibility. They must be able to seek out seriously ill patients at home and cooperate closely with home services. Today's system does not provide enough for home visits, and we are therefore pleased that a majority of the committee asks the government to ensure that it is more stimulated to make home visits to the seriously ill and dying. It is estimated that about 3,500 children have palliative diagnosis in Norway today. When a serious illness affects a child, a whole family is affected. Children affected by less-known serious diseases and diagnoses do not have the same access to assistance and organisation as cancer patients with their package schedules, for example. The family shall not have to fight for the necessary treatment, care and relief if the disease of which the child has been affected is less known. When seriously ill children are treated at home, everyday life can be more normalized. The ‘freshest’ activities characterize the day. Several studies point to a reduced level of stress in the child when treatment was given mainly at home and not in the hospital. Hospital stays with sick children are also often very stressful both for parents and for siblings. Advanced home hospitals contribute positively to the overall family health. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee asks the government to investigate the establishment of advanced home hospitals for children associated with all health regions. This offer must be made available to the families concerned, irrespective of their country of residence. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with the commitment to identify the need for outpatient teams for children in all health regions. Teams must have peak competence in children’s palliation, as the existing outpatient teams define children to a small extent as their scope. Teams must be able to visit the child and family at home or in an institution in acute and terminal situations. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the commitment shown in the Committee to ensure a worthy offer to seriously ill and dying, but nevertheless calls for the parties to dare to be offensively committed to further action. Even when serious illness and suffering threaten, the patient, with the right competence and quality of care personnel, can get good treatment and experience quality of life and meaning, even if life goes to the end. This is life help for the dying. Unfortunately, we have a long way to go before this offer is a guarantee for everyone in need. I am promoting with this Christian People's Party's proposal on the matter as well as the proposals we have with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3744	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has thus taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3747	All honours to the Christian People's Party, as approx. Every two years, a proposal for a representative on the supply of human beings in the final phase of life is made. It creates good debates in the Storting and makes us focus on an important field. The Central Party participates in the setting on the proposal from the Committee to implement a holistic public outreach of the broad-based palliative field, where different disciplines are represented, including the proposal to identify the need for own outpatient teams for children's palliation in all health regions and the proposal to address the possibilities for establishing advanced home hospitals for children in all health regions. We are also making an own proposal that palliative treatment should be financed within the framework. We mean that the effort-driven funding scheme for dying patients in hospitals doesn't belong anywhere, because it means that a premiere short lay time and the number of patients treated. We also have a proposal where we ask the government to do what they themselves were very impatient about before the elections, simply follow up on the Kaasa selection and further develop the care and care arrangements for relatives and other communities providing palliative care in the home. The Christian People's Party has the right to facilitate permanent visits to seriously ill and dying patients. We support the proposal to that effect, including the proposal to draw up a life-help plan that stimulates a wide range of competences on palliation among health professionals in the municipal health service, and to facilitate a lack of availability, i.e. different hospice models. I would like to stress that increasing medical coverage in the hospital is an important proposal that we are behind, and that one must secure outpatient teams in municipalities or in cooperating municipalities that lack it. I also think it is important to consider adapting the investment incentive for palliative municipal units, and to address the need for separate financial arrangements to ensure defence-related operations, because these are places that cost the municipalities extra to both build and operate. The proposal for an own DRG rate for palliative beds in hospital wards is nothing new, but I think it still stands, and that there is something you should consider. Eight out of ten Nordics die in a hospital or in a hospital. Following numbers from the SSB, only one of the three family members is present. It was one thing – it was well at the NRK – about a nursing student who, on his own initiative, chose to sit on a regular shift with a patient on a leisure basis because the hospital would not be able to get hold of a regular shift. The patient died the next day. It was the last night. In this debate, I feel that we often talk about those who we know will die, who have several months on them and who have an freedom of choice on where they want to be and a conscious attitude to it. I think they're all, most people die in old age care, and the question is, where do they choose to be, but maybe the question is whether they die alone. So I hope that the debate does not forget the great majority, as I believe it is, and that one is unlikely to know that this is something that we need to secure at the hospital and possibly at home – that one has ethical guidelines, that it is municipal economy for it, and that it is added to the hospitals that make this possible. I think it's often good competence out there, but there's not enough people. When you have a shift at night with one health professional of 16 patients, you have to have more help to provide a decent supply to those who are in the final phase of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3770	Is the representative going to take up proposals from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3773	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3779	The representative Kjersti Toppe then took up the proposals from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3782	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for a very important proposal that they have made. Palliation and relieving treatment are an important part of Norwegian healthcare. I think we have leading environments in some areas of this in Norway today, but the stretch and gap in the team is too big. More have been concerned that many die, perhaps at home, alone. There are also people who die almost on the streets in Norway, and they do not have many in their homes. It's hard when someone you're happy with gets sick, and maybe even harder when the sick person is a child. The left is very pleased that today it is decided that children should receive a better offer at the end of their lives, by now looking at both the establishment of the Advanced Home Hospital for children in all health regions and their own outpatient team for children’s palliation. In addition, we are also going to get a public investigation. It's a topic we've discussed thoroughly, and we think it's important to get the breadth of the subject to have a platform to move on. The objection is that it may take some time, but when there is such a stretch in the field as it is, it is important to assemble the layer and use the time to prioritize how to proceed. Children with serious and incurable diseases are primarily children, with as diverse and diverse needs as other children. Medical progress makes it possible for children to live longer with serious diseases, and then we must adopt an overall approach to the needs of these children. It is about seeing the whole child, which also involves good care for relatives with support schemes, such as care pay, care allowance, coordinators in the municipalities, sosionom in the hospital. The left supports raising children's palliation as a subject area, as we are doing today, and we can take action along the way, before we have a public investigation. Then there are some offers that I would like to record. Hospice has so far been mentioned, and unlike many other countries, we do not have so many in Norway. Lovisenberg is one of the hospitals that have hospice, they have both a day post and a 24-hour post. It is clear that for some, the day post is also very interesting, by allowing them to go there if necessary – or daily, for the part – that allows them to live longer at home. Another offer, which is quite centered on Oslo, is the French-speaking aid. They have roots in the Catholic Church. Despite that, it's an offer that's open to everyone, and it's free. They have both visiting, mourning, and street service. I hope that the NOU also points to this offer and to the possibilities to expand the corresponding offer. Many volunteers are assisting the Franciscan aid. It is clear that they have employees who are specialist nurses in this field, but there are also many volunteers who can assist. A little turn into Gjøvik, too, where I am from: Haugtun care centre at Gjøvik has a soothing unit. Not all municipalities have been able to afford this type of treatment. This is a little bit of the offer we're talking about in sum here today, but it shows that someone is trying to get there – and it's especially those who are suffering from cancer, who are dying there. The University of Gjøvik also has a vocational offer in palliation, and part of the offer we need to expand is the offer of education, both in basic and continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3803	People in the final phase of life who need relief and care must have a dignified end to life. Good palliative treatment creates security and takes account of the wishes and needs of the user and his/her family through a continuous dialogue throughout the course of the disease. Those in need of relief and care should be cared for in a holistic way — physically, mentally, socially and spiritually. The government will strengthen the competence and offer of palliation, including for children, and will facilitate the diversity of offers. I believe we have started this work. In order to strengthen the expertise, the Directorate of Health was commissioned to prepare a technical report on palliation. The report shows that many services for those in need of relief and care have been established. In the report, the Health Directorate points out, among others: the need to strengthen the competence of palliation, in particular in the municipalities, and to develop good palliative services for people with diseases and diseases other than cancer. Some have special needs, such as children and young people, and people with cognitive failure. This is something that healthcare services need to take into account. The Ministry of Health and Health will follow-up the report in a comprehensive manner through the regular health and care services and through the specific measures in place. This is an area of strong commitment and different professional views, where there are many different considerations to take. I therefore think that what the Storting is doing today is wise, namely to decide to initiate an overall review of this area, in a NOW, and that of course the government will follow up. Through the 2015 budgetary agreement, between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right, 10 million were allocated. to strengthen measures to enhance the competence of relieving treatment. The funds are used to follow up several of the proposals in the Health Directorate report. These include: means of establishing a further training offer within the children’s palliation for health professionals, and to the organisation Yes to relievers and care for children. Their commitment is essential for the development of this field. A national action programme with guidelines for palliation in cancer care has been established. The general conditions mentioned there also apply to other patients who are in the final phase of life. The State budget provides funding for empowering actions, both to municipalities and to non-governmental organisations. National Professional Guideline for Child Relieving Treatment shall be completed in 2015. It will include, among others: make recommendations for the further development of the subject. I would also like to show that the government has granted 25 million. kr to a five-year multi-regional research project on palliative cancer treatment. Competence is a central area of our political base. We will implement a lift of competence for the overall improvement of the quality of healthcare services. This year, we're setting up 2,500 lucky day care centers. Municipalities may choose to use these also for palliative units. The operation of the sites is financed by the ordinary framework financing of the municipalities. We have significantly strengthened the investment grant by adjusting the average grant share per unit, from 35 to 50 pst. The activity of the scheme has increased since this strengthening. In the paper on the primary health service of the future, the government will facilitate more outpatient treatment in the form of multi-disciplinary outpatient teams. Such a team-based approach can help patients to be treated in their own homes rather than in hospitals or other institutions. I see that the Committee is also concerned about this – both in the vote and in the proposals. The Regulation provides for the possibility for physicians to carry out home visits in patients who are seriously ill and dying, and a separate tariff system is in place to do so. I think it might be a major problem that the decision-making process is too little connected to the situations in which the doctor's competence was needed. Municipalities also have the possibility to impose on their fixed doctors up to 7,5 hours of other general medical work, including medical services in hospitals. In view of the fact that the government has allocated funds to new initiatives in the palliative field, that we have just submitted a public health and care notification, and that during the year we will present a national health and hospital plan, I consider that these initiatives and measures need to be developed and worked, so that we can draw experience from them and assess an appropriate device of the palliative field. I will follow these developments closely, while following the decisions taken today by the Storting – either in this work or through the work to be done through the public investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3826	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3829	I am pleased that we are working together on this important matter, and I am very pleased that we agreed with the Committee on a NOW, which is perhaps the most important long-term work that will strengthen the entire palliative field in the years to come. My question to the Council of State goes in that direction. The council was a little bit into it, and I don't expect a very clear answer, but perhaps some reflections about when the council thinks you can launch a NOW in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3836	Of course, I can't give any exact time for that, but we're now going to be working on following up the decisions the Storting is making today, and looking at what room there is within the budgets we get to next year, to look at the possibility of starting this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3841	It's a political task to ensure that we have enough soothing units in Municipality-Norway near where people live. Relieving units in nursing homes are often vulnerable because they have higher operating costs than normal beds, because they have more expensive staff, and they often also have some equipment that costs more than usual. The Council of State referred to the report of the Health Directorate of this year, Report on the offer to persons in need of relief and care for the end of life. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is clear that we also want national leaders to go all the way into Sykhems-Norway to raise the standard around palliation. My question is: What national leadership does the Council of State see in addition to investment grants and empowerment in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3846	We are now working on the follow-up to the recommendations made in that technical report from the directorate. We chose to start that work – we were also in doubt at the time if one would rather start a NOU, but we thought it would make sense to get a quick summary of the status in the field, so we had a basis for further work. I believe that we now have, and then we're going to start a NOU work as well. Some of these are also mentioned in the primary health report. We're going to look at what we're going to do to ensure the quality and competence of municipalities as a follow-up. But what measures are being taken when, I cannot respond to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3851	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3856	Norway has the lowest death rate for home death in the world, despite research showing that dying patients themselves want to stay as close to their home as possible when life enters the final phase. In my home country, Telemark, there is a cooperation between the hospital and the permanent staff, which gives those who want it the opportunity to die at home. NRK Telemark had a look about this before the weekend, about how a superior and project manager for outpatient services at the Hospital Telemark travels home to people and sets up a plan in collaboration with home and permanent staff. The goal is to ensure that patients get as good pain relief at home as at the hospital. Several of the patients have often been in and out of hospital and treatment and are worn out. Then it is safe to be at home with its closest to those who want this, and the security of the relatives, not least. On several occasions, I have visited various relieving units and talked to relatives. For them, it is important to create a good and safe framework for their loved ones. They also tell me that it's important that when they go into their final phase, they get really good-bye. For me and the Progress Party, it is important that you have the choice. It is not difficult to understand that you want to choose to be in your own home. For the autumn, we must also deal with the primary health service of the future. Those in need of relief and care should be cared for in a holistic way, physically, mentally, socially and spiritually. Furthermore, studies indicate that the majority of adult patients wish to receive treatment and care at home during the final phase of life. In the budgetary agreement, the overall agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in 2015, 10 million have been allocated. kr, which shall contribute to strengthening the competence of palliation. Among other things, the Competence Commitment 2015, which is to increase the formal level of education in care services, is strengthened. A national action programme with guidelines for palliation in cancer care has been developed here. For the Advancement Party, it is important that serious sick and dying are given freedom of choice in their own lives. Most people want to die in a familiar environment. The government signals that palliative care should be better organised. This includes, inter alia: a greater diversity of offers and expectations that both knowledge and competence in the field and research and professional development in the field should be better developed. I really look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3873	The representative Toppe came up with this that many elderly, sick patients died in a nursing home. It's a patient group I'm also very concerned about. They're vulnerable, and in addition, we know that many of them have severe dementia diagnoses. What is totally incomprehensible to me then is why the red-green government – when they transferred so many demanding tasks to the municipalities through the Interaction Reform – chose to make the Health and Care Services Act professionally neutral. That is why I am very pleased that this government is reintroducing the competence requirement into the Health and Care Services Act – because we don't need less competence, we need much, much more. Voluntary activities can contribute. Nursing workers without health education can also make a good contribution to patients in the final phase of life. There may be a hand to hold in, there may be a cold cloth on a hot forehead, but in the back, as important support, there must be a competent nurse or a doctor – in a nursing home there are usually nurses. Then, of course, we have to make sure that we increase our status by working in hospitals and in the municipalities of Norway. I believe that is what we are doing when we focus more on competence, when we come up with a primary health message that does something about how we organise the work around patients, and when we actually say that the municipalities should have a certain competence in place. Providing freedom of choice does not always mean choosing between a hospice or a hospital ward. There are many choices to be made in the final phase of life. One must have the competence to dare to talk to the patient who is approaching death. This applies to cancer patients, to patients who are suffering from a serious disease with a fatal outcome, but it also applies to those patients we have in a nursing home, who are elderly, and also to dementia wards. We all have our unique needs, and I believe that freedom of choice is just as much about being allowed to decide something more about how you want life to be in the last days, who will be there when you die, and how you want to be cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3886	First of all, professional neutrality is not about not demanding competence, but it's not about necessarily listing professionals. We will come back to it more when we deal with the primary health service message. This debate is about having a little humble approach. I don't ignore that we could have done more. We should have done more in this field when we were in government. Then it is important that one does not repeat those errors, and there are some pitfalls to go into. I'll come back to it a little bit more later. I think it's positive that the committee is so clear. We live in the world's best country – there's nothing to say that it's only the world's best country to live in, it should also be the world's best country to die in. It is important to develop a new policy. We do that all the time in the Workers' Party. We learn from what we haven't been good enough. This is probably an area in which we haven't been good enough, and I'm very happy that stakeholder organisations and others have hung on, not given up, and stood on. But it's also important that one joins in the processes that are going on. I'm familiar with the fact that we're working on a guideline on palliation. I am also aware that an important actor in the children's palliative field has withdrawn from that work. I'm concerned — the actor who may have the greatest competence in children's palliation in Norway has withdrawn from that work. My challenge to the Minister of Health is to see these actors in the cards. Let's not forget child palliation. This debate, this position and this proposal for a NOU mean that children’s palliation will have not only some place, but a significant part of the place in the NOU, not as when the Health Directorate presented its report earlier this year, where children’s palliation got three-four pages and the other palliation field got several dozen pages of concrete policies and actions. So don't forget child palliation, we have to raise that field too, while lifting the entire palliation field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3897	A little comment on this with professional neutrality: I respect that this is a demanding field, so when I told you about my concern for the many who die alone, it was not a direct criticism of the government, because it has been for many years – for all. But I thought it would be a slight rhetoric to show professional neutrality. There's probably a lot of arguments for it, and there's a lot of arguments against it. Sickhouses have a professionally neutral law. There is no law that says there must be laymen or nurses in hospitals – that is not true – but it is. What was my birthright is that one must also look at the basic crew. Many places are good competence, but we also need to look at the basic crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3904	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3918	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3925	The representatives Toppe, Lundtigen and Sjelmo Nordås are raising a proposal for a representative whose main intention is to wind up the business model, to introduce popular hospital management, and to provide guidance for national health and hospital plans, among others. functional distribution, location and organisation of hospitals in Norway. The majority of the Committee, which is not part of the Centre Party, is concerned that the Storting should address the general principles and quality requirements of the specialist health services. Health undertakings are themselves responsible for planning and implementing development and conversion work necessary to meet the overall principles and quality requirements adopted by the Storting. This is a division of roles that I believe must be respected. This is where the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party separate layers by the majority. The size cannot control the individual hospital in detail. Hospital boards are responsible for the operation, management and control of quality. For the autumn, the government will promote a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget, and the government believes there is a need for more political governance in the development of the specialist health service. The National Health and Hospital Plan will have a greater influence on the development of healthcare. The plan will outline national principles for different types of hospitals, hospital structure and competence and quality requirements. I mention that there are national principles; there are no details related to each hospital in Norway. The plan shall be drawn up on the basis of patients’ needs, be based on up-to-date knowledge, and look at the plans already developed within health establishments. As announced to the Stortinget in the Supplement to the State Budget for 2014, the government will return to the closure of regional health businesses once the national health and health plan has been drawn up, adopted and implemented. This will give Stortinget ample opportunity to discuss. I think it is appropriate to adopt the plan before starting an investigation into a governance model. You have to put some pieces in place before others are put in place. According to the proposal of the representative, the boards of undertakings are to be chosen from among the elected members of the county. This considers that the majority will lead to very unclear responsibilities and the pulverisation of political responsibility for a very large and important social sector. The Governing Boards will be in a crossroads between implementing the policies of the elected members of the county to be adopted and implementing the policies that the Grand Duchy and the Government wish to implement. Thus, in cases where governments do not want to implement adopted policies, the Minister must, in the ultimate sense, replace the governments, and, after that model, will depend on finding new members from the same county. Governments can then continue to risk having governments that will not implement the policies adopted by the Storing and the Government. We can't live with that. The Central Party model creates the impression that county councils and county politicians have a direct responsibility for hospital operations, but in reality one has to deal with budgets and governance documents that come from big business and government. The representative’s proposal also addresses the management of hospitals and forms of funding for specialist health services. As regards the management of the hospital, I would like to point out that there is no evidence today that Norwegian hospitals are managed and managed in a way that is not effective, democratic or that gives confidence. But it is clear that there is always room for improvement in management, and management is also concerned about the committee. The Committee has also written on management in previous documents and would like to stress that it is committed to creating cultures involving employees in conversions. But it is the seventh and last board members who have to consider what is the most appropriate organisation of both management and hospital for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3944	The Labour Party believes that a regionalised model of management of the specialist health service has proved to respond well to the challenges facing us in the health sector. The debate on substance is closed. 7 earlier today does not trump that position. We have been shown that the introduction of the business model in 2002 has resulted in far more patients being treated in hospitals than in the past. It has provided better quality in patient treatment and has contributed to a good distribution of both economic and professional resources between regions. Through regional superstructure, it has also been possible to raise important local and regional issues through a strong regional player, who has had the opportunity to take overall action on good resource allocation. In particular, this has been important to ensure good quality in local hospitals in regions with large distances and scattered populations. The proposers will have stronger political governance with the hospitals. We can agree on this: the business model has been adjusted and changed several times since its introduction in 2002, and political governance has become clearer along the way. But it is difficult to see that a new major reorganization will provide a better hospital supply to the population. And that must be the scale. Nor can we see that the model outlined in the present representative proposal provides better answers to the challenges of the specialist health service. The working party agrees with the proposers that there is a need to strengthen the framework funding of hospitals and believes it is important to restore the ISF share from 50 pst in the first instance. until 40 p.m., which was the rate of the Stoltenberg II Government. We also believe, like the proposers, that it is important to ensure that the governance of regional health businesses has a stronger regional political base. However, we cannot see the point of elected members of the board – even if a popular position locally or regionally cannot be disqualifying in itself for such a position. The Labour Party is critical that the government has rejected the principle that a majority of the owner-appointed board members of regional health companies and hospitals should be appointed from among politicians proposed by county councils, municipalities and Sametinget. We are concerned that this weakens the local political anchor in the governance of such an important social sector as hospitals are, and believe that such a anchoring is necessary to ensure the legitimacy of hospitals in the population. The government has announced that the National Health and Hospital Plan will be sent to the Stortinget in autumn 2015. The working party is positive that there will be such a plan, but we expect the government to add up to rolling and updating the plan at regular intervals, to ensure that it responds to the challenges at all times. It now seems clear that a national health and hospital plan cannot be an exhaustive management tool, and we note with some wonder that the government has so far been little concrete about how one really thinks that a national hospital governance model can be. In any event, it is clear that the Minister for Health does not have his words in mind when, in the opposition, he stated that the health plan should be as detailed as the national transport plan: ‘The health plan we are going to draw up will define the tasks of each hospital, also locally, on a national basis.’ Now the health minister says that the plan will be on a very general level and not at all define the tasks of each hospital. It's no wonder that many people are confused about how this government really thinks about the management of hospitals. The Labour Party will maintain a regional governance structure and continuously implement improvements in the management and organisation of Norwegian hospitals. In this way, we will ensure a governance structure that meets the need for local anchoring, people-chosen competence, legitimacy locally and regionally, and broad knowledge of hospital operations and societal issues at all levels of the governance of the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3968	For many years, there has been a majority in favour of reducing regional health enterprises. But since SV and the Center Party chose to protect them, there has been no change over these years. The party opted for the decommissioning of regional health enterprises, which is anchored in the government platform. However, it is important for me to stress that the most important thing for us now is to put in place the national health and health plan, and then to propose how hospitals can be organised in the future. There are two things that are important then. One is that we feel confident that what we are proposing is better than what we have today, and the other is that it has broad political anchoring. As of today, only the Workers' Party is defending the business model, so it has the hope of reaching an agreement. But if such a consensus is to come about, we need to do a real job in advance. A good hospital offer for the whole population, with everything that a hospital includes, is too important and great to include in a representative proposal. Something like that would be directly irresponsible. This was also apparent in the hearing. Very few of those who were in the hearing had comments on the device proposal itself, but were most concerned with their local hospital or made visible weaknesses with today's organization. Therefore, health establishments shall continue to be responsible for planning and implementing the development and conversion work necessary to meet the needs. The size cannot control the enterprises or individual hospitals in detail. However, the intention of a national health and hospital plan is, in addition to sketching national principles for different types of hospital and hospital structure, to have more political governance on how the service develops. I find that SV and the Center Party believe a lot about this now, and it is difficult to understand how it was possible to sit for eight years without doing anything. According to these two batches, it is now urgent to phase out the business model. It's in the notes. The notes from these two batches go very far in blackning everything they've stood for and protected in eight years. They criticise their own government for changes in the corporate law of 2012, for lack of transparency, for the very high level of management remuneration and for the sharp increase in the number of administrative staff. Much of this criticism can be agreed upon, and therefore in the opposition we promoted more proposals, but were voted down every time. I still feel a need to remember that every day, in fact, there is a great deal of effort in emergency medicine, treatment, rehabilitation and research. The vast majority are satisfied with that offer, and I am concerned that we do not forget all these employees, who despite old equipment, overcoating, understaffing and worn-out buildings provide care and care of very high quality. Cleaning up all the delays and constantly thinking ahead and developing further is a big and continuous job. But we must never forget the job done out there, despite challenges that we largely agree on. Finally, a strong settlement is made with the way hospitals are financed, and there are other ways to reduce waiting times. To that I only have one thing to say. Under red-green rule, the number of people waiting for treatment increased by nearly 10,000 a year, and more than a quarter of a billion people stood in this queue when we took over. Now the number goes down, and the government's increased budgets as well as a number of other steps that have been taken are working. To refer to Scotland seems a little strange. The committee was visiting there, and we probably got a somewhat different view of how successful their organization was. The survey section has looked at Scotland’s model, and it certainly does not require copies. The Progress Party is opposed to all the proposals from the Centre Party and the SV and meets the further debate in the context of the work on the National Hospital Plan and later on on on the reorganization of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e3985	The government has announced that it will make a health and hospital plan this autumn. And if there's something that's changed since we last had a hospital reform, it's treatment, new knowledge and not least new and new equipment. Some techniques are so advanced that they will also require quantities to ensure good treatment and quality. The new health and health plan must address the nature of our country, with distances, challenging weather and scattered population – to mention something. If you are to be able to provide good services, all of this has to be seen in the context, and you also have to look at what kind of governance our healthcare service is best served to ensure a good health supply. The Health and Sickness Plan must address the need for emergency care, elective treatment and not least all other treatments planned. In addition, it is known that we can still treat more and less frequently diseases and conditions that we have never been able to deal with, which will also require cooperation both within our own country and – not least – beyond our own borders. The Christian People's Party will shut down regional health businesses. We believe that the business model is bureaucratic and cumbersome. Clear political governance of the specialist healthcare service has been difficult to secure within today’s governance model. It is an objective to ensure equivalent hospital services across the country, while ensuring local adaptations. The Christian People's Party believes that we must not go back to the hospitals becoming part of the local election campaign or the county election campaign. It's not going to be predictable for the hospitals, for the professional environments and finally for the patients. Nor will the offer be future-oriented for our citizens. The Christian People's Party believes that local health companies must be governed by a national strategy, anchored in our big business and department, which ensures a good health service throughout the country. Good emergency preparedness must be at the bottom and central to this health and hospital plan and must also be managed as part of the entire service. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to ensure the national functions, so that they are maintained with the competences that are of benefit to our country and to our patients. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is not in favour of a change of form of government now. We want to take that discussion into account in the National Health and Sickness Plan, because then we know what we're talking about, and what we're going to rule. The Christian People's Party therefore follows the committee's recommendation and votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4002	The health model with the establishment of health care establishments and state ownership of hospitals was introduced in 2002 and is referred to as the main health reform since municipalities were given responsibility for primary health care services in 1984. It has also been said that it is the only major reform in Norway that has been adopted without any prior public spending, and it has been carried out in great haste. From the idea was launched until the laws were passed it took two years. The morbidity reform in 2002 was not just about the state assuming responsibility for hospitals. It was that a whole new operating principle was introduced, away from the management model and beyond, into a business model in line with the private sector. There was strong professional resistance to the reform from the start. Ten emerging countries countered the health care reforms, which are interesting to read now. There they strongly expressed their scepticism for the reform and its consequences. It was the exemption itself from democratic governance that most warns against, because in a market system people in elections or the Storting will have no real influence over health priorities. There was a warning against the bureaucracy wanting to grow and dominate the trade union environment, and there was a warning against trade union developments becoming home because of competition between hospitals, and because the training would become a wolf’s activity. It was warned that over time Norway would have a two-part health care system – one in public ownership and one in private ownership. Sickhouses would be specialised and emergency preparedness would be centralised. The healthiest patients would be given higher priority over the most ill. Very many of these concerns have unfortunately been a reality. The Central Party notes that the Minister of Health is pushing out his will in time and will no longer reject this regime. Now we're going to have a national health and hospital plan, he's going to be adopted, he's going to be implemented, and he's going to work before one says anything more about the board. The centre party primarily calls for more democratic governance and popular influence over hospital provision. We want a funding that builds up under a good public administration and equivalent services. We therefore propose that the government should bring forward legislative proposals where health insurance laws are replaced by a new health management law with public authority management of hospitals under state ownership. We ask the government to draw up a detailed national health and hospital plan to ensure political priorities for quality, recruitment, education, functional distribution, location and organisation of specialist services. This plan must lay the framework for elected government regionally and locally. We ask the government through a new health administration law created about 20 health care agencies, similar to the 20 health care agencies of the day, where the majority of the board is elected by and among its members. We ask the government through a new health management law to create state rentals in hospitals that have both professional responsibility and financial and personnel responsibilities. We also propose the creation of a separate works council in hospitals, where the majority are local people elected and where there are representatives from the municipal health services. We also propose that hospitals should be financed mainly within the framework. This means that the order and driver models will be discontinued. In the setting, it is difficult to see any criticism of the health model from the government party, the Christian People's Party or the Left. Now the Christian People's Party was clear on the speaker's chair, but otherwise it is a laying down of the board and no critical remarks on today's way of ruling. I've looked at what the same parties meant in 2011, in the context of the discussion of a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party to shut down regional health professionals. They write the following: ‘Members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party’ — not put the Left in the Committee — ‘consider that the current governance model for the health sector is not appropriate and would like an alternative to be developed. As these members see it, it is important to ensure political management of the hospital sector. Therefore, these members want to put regional health businesses down and give greater freedom and responsibility to local health businesses within the framework of a national health policy.» This is what the Central Party is proposing today. These parties put forward a proposal in 2011: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to close regional health businesses.’ I understand that one is now in position - it is strange that there is not a single critical note in the setting, it disappoints me. And then I'm going to finally bring up the Center Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4034	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4037	I heard the representative Kjersti Toppe mention the introduction of the health business model as perhaps the least democratic implementation of a reform, almost, in Norwegian history. To wind it up by means of a representative proposal, a document 8 proposal, would have gone over it. So to the content of the proposal. It is that the majority parties, and now the Left is also in the Health Committee, have a cooperation agreement that says that we should wind up regional health businesses. But first on the list is to get the Stortinget a national health and hospital plan, and get it adopted. For the left, we have recently had a national meeting, like everyone else in ours. Hospital policy was referred to as part of a local and regional reform. We are not strangers to leading parts of the hospital sector to new regions. Nor are we strangers to continuing all hospitals in state ownership, or to moving the entire hospital sector – including university hospitals – to new regions. But we have not concluded on this, and we are asking first of all that a further affiliation to the level of government be established. We also need to look at the governance that belongs to this. The model proposed by the Centre Party – in a small way, the democratic mind layer of the Centre Party here – is very much in agreement with the Left. We want another form of association where the Minister of Health should not be the owner body alone. After being in Scotland and looking at the model there, I'm not totally positive that this is where we're going in Norway. Although Scotland has made up five million inhabitants, and has reversed much of what Norway has taken up from the UK health sector, the Scottish governments have no basis either — especially politically. They also tried with elected elections to the regimes, and quickly ended up with it. There was bad excitement and it wasn't that easy to get people to make choices. It's a Urias post – we also have to consider that this is a demanding task. Choosing them on the basis of indirect choices from the new regional authorities is also a challenge. There's going to be a discussion in the years that come what model to choose. For the left, we are open to listen to the opinions of many parties here, but first of all, we need to adopt a national health and hospital plan that says something about a structure and a content in the hospitals ahead, and from that we can choose both the anchoring point and the form of governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4050	When the hospital reform was carried out, SV was against. We also promoted our own legislative proposals on another governance model at the time, which had been more democratic. In our view, the governance model chosen bears far too much impact on market governance models and too little democratic political control in elected bodies. It has been the criticism all the way, and it stands. But the story of this hospital reform is enough so that it has been difficult for the parties who were in trouble for it, to see that this has had huge problematic aspects. I'm glad that now all the parties, apart from the Workers' Party, have said that you want a different model, and that's positive. This proposal is aimed at getting this work going more concretely, so that we can continue to have better political control over hospitals. The representative, Kjeseth from the left, was up here and said that there were probably problems in getting elected elected representatives from the government also in Scotland, which is referred to in the vote. I'm sure it is, because these are difficult things. But the point is that politicians have to take responsibility. The model that has been chosen now, with some politicians who have been closest hostages in such a government, who are not appointed by any political elected body and are not to report back to any political elected body, and who hang a bit in the loose air, has always been thought to be a pure quasi-model, and that in the first place one should have had a model with pure – so to speak – tradesmen rather than melding tradesmen and policies into that kind of governing body. SV wants political responsibility for the decisions taken. One of my very strange experiences as a politician was when the company in Hedmark was going to decide to move the mother and child unit from Elverum to Lillehammer, because then you got to be a politician, and the Stortinget, in a way that this happens, but you have no tools, and then you stand outside a board meeting of the health company and just like protesting against a health company that is really responsible for the political Storing, but we have no impact on it. It's a completely impossible situation to be in. I've been confronted by the population every year with things going on in hospitals, but I've never had direct influence and opportunities to do anything about it, and that's a completely impossible situation, and we have to solve this in a different way than what we're doing today. The second is the management systems and the financing systems. This proposal mentions the need for more framework funding and less input-driven funding, and the need to have models of incentives other than what you have today, because it can have perverted effects, and that is well-being and not shopping. I am very pleased that this proposal for a representative is coming, because it helps to push forward a very important debate that needs to come. We don't know exactly what the government has thought about when they say that you have to wind up this model, so we're very excited to see the actual result. But SV wants a model where it's popular governance in the first place, before you get up a regional level that can possibly take this back. Then it is fair that it should be under the Ministry of Health, so that it is the Minister of Health who has this responsibility in the end and that you have to go through the funding models. We also have high expectations for the national health plan, and for the Council of State to present it so that the important decisions are actually taken by the politicians in the Grand Duchy, and that responsibility must be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4063	I can then start by pleasing Andersen's representative that this blending model, of which I fully agree with the description of, where someone had the parties behind them, but was not represented in these elected bodies from which they came, is abolished, and it's now purely professional directors. In line with the government platform, we will promote a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget for the autumn. The aim is to increase transparency and predictability in the sector. As indicated in the Appendix to the 2014 State Budget, once the national health and health plan has been drawn up, adopted and implemented, we will return to the closure of regional health businesses. The government believes that we need more political governance on how the specialist health service evolves. The National Health and Hospital Plan will have a greater influence on the development of specialist healthcare in the years to come. The Health and Hospital Plan will outline national principles for different types of hospital and hospital structure. It shall be developed on the basis of the needs of patients, based on up-to-date knowledge and on the plans already developed in healthcare businesses. Once the Storting has addressed the general principles for the development of a comprehensive specialist health service, health authorities shall comply with these principles in professional criteria and quality requirements that can be imposed on hospitals for the future. Health undertakings shall also be responsible in future for planning and implementing the development and conversion work necessary to meet the national principles and professional criteria set. The government’s national health and hospital plan will be designed to ensure that this role-sharing is respected. The representative proposal implies that the State should continue to have ownership of health businesses and thus that, as before, the Minister for Health and Welfare should be constitutionally responsible for the service to Stortinget. It must then be assumed that health policy is precisely anchored in the Storting and is exercised by the government. The Minister of Health and Welfare’s tools for implementing health policy are the governance of health businesses. According to the proposal, the Boards shall be elected from among the elected members of the county. This will lead to very unclear responsibilities and to the pulverisation of political responsibility for a very large and important social sector. The representatives of the Governing Board will be in a strong cross-relationship between implementing on the one hand the policies which have been adopted by the members of the County Council and, on the other hand, implementing the policy which is opposed to this, which the Grand Duchy and the Government wish to implement. In cases where governments do not implement adopted policies, the Minister of Health and Health will have to replace the governments in the utmost consequence. After this model, one will then be dependent on choosing new members from the same county, and the responsible minister may then continue to risk having governors who do not implement the policies adopted by the Stortinget and the government. The model also gives the impression that county councils and county politicians have a direct responsibility for hospital operations, while in reality they have to deal with the budgets and governance documents that come from accumulation and government. This will not only lead to a unclear management model for hospitals, but will also undermine the role of county representatives as elected representatives. One understands that this is a proposal that I will warn very strongly against. It will undermine the role of the Storting as a public elected level responsible for the specialist health service, it will undermine the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare for the Storting, and it will also undermine the role of the county council members as elected representatives at regional level. The model creates unclear responsibilities and opens up the kind of political games that today's specialist health management model intended to clean up. The design of a future governance model for specialist health services shall support the objective of ensuring that the population is provided with equivalent services of good quality and good use of the resources provided by the Storting. The organisation of the ownership of the specialist healthcare service is one of several instruments to ensure more national policy governance of the sector. This tool must be seen in conjunction with other governance measures that will be presented in the national health and hospital plan. The governance model must ensure good cooperation, coordination and resource use between hospitals and other actors, in particular the health services of municipalities. Patients, users and other interested parties shall be guaranteed influence over the provision of services. The government will come back to Stortinget with this matter after the national health and hospital plan has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4092	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4095	Indeed, there is a difference between being an opposition politician and a positionist. This is not least demonstrated when you find quotes from the Minister of Health before and after the 2013 elections – listen to this: «There will always be torches, but now the torches will know where to go You can contact their own politicians at Stortinget, who with our model will be responsible for the decisions. [[...]] They do not currently have the power of regional health establishments.» And then after the election: ‘I do not wish to propose with a national health and hospital plan that the Storting should take decisions relating to the specific food and emergency services or other changes in the various hospitals.’ Confusion is great. And while we're waiting for not Godot, but national health and hospital plan, I'm going to ask a nice question, as it's late in the evening: does the Council of State think that it might be a little wise to think regionally further, regionally in the management of hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4112	Yes, there is definitely a difference between being in opposition and being in position. The fun thing about being in position is that one gets the opportunity to implement the policy that was developed while one was in opposition. We're doing great. The first important change in the governance model, which I have been very clear all along, is to create an operational national health and hospital plan. That plan will be presented this autumn. It is the most important tool to ensure better political anchoring. It is absolutely right that the demonstration trains need to know where to go. Now that we're making important changes in content or shutting down hospitals, there's no longer anyone in doubt about who has the political responsibility. While part of my predecessors in the red-green government were due to health regions and used them as screenboards, I meet the demonstrations here outside the Stortingen and explain why I have taken the political decision and the responsibility it is for important social institutions like the hospitals. So yes, there's a difference between opposition and position, but there's a difference between position and jam!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4123	That was interesting to hear. I think the Minister of Health has misunderstood a little. The torches have not addressed the Storting to demonstrate against any general principles. They have addressed the Stortinget because they wanted the Stortinget to solve concrete problems or challenges in the individual hospital. When the Minister of Health spoke about the fact that the torches could turn to his politicians, it was to get their hospitals cleaned up. Does the Council of State still think that he has clarified exactly this with the torches and where they will turn when they are dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4130	The representative's thought experiment here now is based on a reasoning that I misunderstand my own statements, and that is, of course, absolutely impossible. It is true that in the national health and hospital plan there will be concrete guidance and principles for the content of the different types of hospitals, which will have consequences for how hospitals actually develop further. If the representative takes the time to read all the debates on the issue of the Stortingen issue in the previous period, she will find that the main reference document for this was the birth announcement and the way it was designed had implications for the development of the birth offer. It's precisely the thinking that underlies this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4137	Just to clarify, the Minister of Health has not misunderstood himself. The Minister of Health may have misunderstood the message from the torches. But now leave it to a later time. I would like to have the answer to the first question, whether you can imagine in a new governance model, when you have come up with a plan, looking at the regional overburden? That's what I'm asking because it's worked very well in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4144	The government platform that I am chairing, and the majority that is in Stortingen, means that once national health and hospital plans have been presented, adopted and worked and a new governance model has been developed, the regional health businesses will be decommissioned. That's what I'm working for. Then we have also been very clear that in Norway it will be that when planning health services for the population, it is natural to do so in a regional perspective. There will also be a national health and hospital plan to bear the mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4151	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for criticising the proposal, because at least we can debate it. Not everyone is doing it. I have a question that goes at national health and hospital level. Governments and governments say that one cannot change the enterprise model until one has developed a national health and hospital plan and it has been adopted and works. Why is this a criterion now and not in 2011, when the Right proposes to wind up the business model? And in the extension of it: When – the date – will the government propose to change or wind up the business model?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4158	The government plans to follow up the government platform during this majority period. But it has been very clear from both the Right and the Advance Party – even when we were in opposition – that an important foundation for changing the governance model is to get a national health and hospital plan, so that one actually ensures that the political governance of the sector is anchored in the Storting, and that one has a plan to govern from.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4163	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4168	It was the representative, Kjeseth, who, in a comment on my statement that the entrepreneurial reform had been introduced in a very short time and in an undemocratic way, thought that it was equally undemocratic to wind it up with a proposal for a representative. I would like to make it clear that we are not going to wind up the reform by means of a representative proposal; we are asking the government to bring up a case on a new health management model. That's the big difference. I didn't think that criticism was entirely real. In the end, as an extension of the replication with the Council of State: A national health and hospital plan will be annexed by the Stortinget in 2016. If you want the plan to work before doing something with the enterprise model, you are asked how many years the government is thinking. At least one comes well past the next big shot, and maybe it has to work for three-four-five years – it's not said anything about it. That's why my question was when the government sees it happen – but we might just have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4176	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4191	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4196	I have been delighted to be the case rapporteur for the SV's proposal to ensure that there is a monopoly of wine in all the municipalities that want it. According to the Vinmonopolet, it is approx. 100 municipalities that don't have polut sales, but that want it. The Committee agrees that the wine monopoly is an important instrument for ensuring the responsible sale of wine, spirits and spirits in Norway. We're really happy in the Wine Monopoly, most of us. It has also gradually become the majority of the population of Norway. It hasn't always been like this. In the 1990s, the majority of Norwegian people wanted to put down the system of state wine monopolies. Now it's a clear majority of 60 pst. for the scheme. The main reason for this is enough that the Vinmonopolis itself has evolved to become a modern and service-set quality supplier – simply a product trader that operates market-oriented and public-friendly, while at the same time being able to balance its cream business with sales in controlled forms, as is the case with a state-owned alcohol monopolist. As the setting indicates, it has become clear during the treatment that only the Swedish authorities themselves support the fact that it is a government task to ensure that wine monopoly sales are available in all municipalities that want it. The reasons for this might be more. Maybe it's because it's actually like 96 pst. – a percentage that fit well in this case – of the country’s inhabitants live less than 30 kilometres from a pole sale. In addition, 90 pst. of the population of a Polutsell municipality. Perhaps SV is alone because the wine monopoly has a clear strategy for how to increase its availability, primarily by developing their digital contact with customers. So the use of the Vinmonopole websites has increased by 80 pst. in the last three years and online orders have increased by 30 pst. during the same period. It testifies to a state institution that adapts to the customer's needs. At the same time, the wine monopoly from 2014 has also opened a new store model, which is adapted to small commercial centres and municipalities with few inhabitants. Two shops opened in 2014, both of them covered their expenses in half a year. The monopoly of wine is planning five new shops in this category in 2015 — and it is therefore itself helping to improve accessibility in what can be called districts. It is a little surprising that the Workers' Party in the note opens the door slightly open so that the Wine Monopoly could cross subsidies between its sales. However, we choose to hope that this is not something that will further shape the Labour Party's policy. We are pleased that a unanimous committee actually believes that further strategic work on the operation of the Vinmonopoly, including issues related to increased availability and more outlets, should be a task that the company’s management continuously assesses and takes care of. It is probably still a good idea that these decisions are taken by the company's board of directors, not by the government. It is also a good idea, the majority in this case believes, that there is no commercial leakage and industrial policy issues that are primarily directed at alcohol policy in Norway, but that the monopoly of wine continues to be an accessible, sound, modern and consumer-friendly player with high levels of satisfaction and satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4215	The wine monopoly has been able to balance its social role for over 90 years: to be an important alcohol policy tool with social control and at the same time to offer the entire population – 96 pst., but actually 100 pst. with other solutions – a wide range of products. It is important for the Workers' Party to give the entire population access as equal as possible to the pole. Many municipalities have applied for the establishment of local polydrug sales, as experience shows that local wine monopolies are involved in ensuring the opening up of retail trade, maintaining local centres and increasing housing, but are also affecting the drinking pattern in a healthier direction with less homeburning and less crime related to alcohol. For the Workers' Party, therefore, the Vinmonopolet is an important regional policy tool. In the last eight years that the Workers' Party has co-managed with the SV and the Center Party, a number of new poles have been established. The wine monopoly was particularly challenged to develop models adapted to smaller locations. The Labour Party will therefore first look at the proportion of the population we are able to reach with the smallest and new option – the wine monopoly category 1 – while being aware that we will avoid new start-ups at the expense of existing sales, so that these will end up in a situation where there is a deficit. As the rapporteur said, the Workers' Party is open that if it turns out that long distances make it impossible to establish Category 1, cross-subsidies should be considered in very special cases where there is an unreasonable journey to a wine monopoly. The wine monopoly has been very clear that those who do not have access can buy online. But shopping online is not the same as being allowed to visit a physical wine monopoly. The working party wants to maintain the monopoly of wine, as an effective tool for social control of the circulation of alcohol above 4.7 % by volume, but also as a good trade with a completely unique range of products, in the world class. The working party does not want a development towards a pole in the shop.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4234	This day I probably never thought I'd come, because when the SV actually promoted a proposal in a more liberal direction in the alcohol policy? What is this? Is that election fight? Is this the threat to the barrier limit, or is it a signal that SV will look at the alcohol policy with new eyes? In the case of an offensive and solidarity policy on alcohol, which we discussed earlier this evening in this Chamber, SV did not participate in the debate, but supported proposals, as expected. They were to recognize. They would reduce the time of donation by 1 hour, from 1:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.00, and they would reverse the changes to the tariff free quota introduced in 2014. As far as the tax-free quota is concerned, it is worth mentioning that the first extension of this came when SV's then leader, Kristin Halvorsen, was the country's finance minister. Was this already the first little sign that SV would change on alcohol policy issues? In this case, the subsequent signals and suggestions have been very unclear – until today, when SV makes itself a teacher for the voters by promising pole to everyone. It is almost as if you do not believe what you read, when the SV’s member of the Health and Care Committee, the representative Audun Lysbakken, writes in a note that ‘it is essential that everyone has a reasonable proximity to wine monopoly sales’. SV is talking about sharing the goods. Wine and spirits to everyone may be one way to do it, if you perceive the products of the monopoly of wine as good, well to notice. But I find it a little difficult to understand SV's new and sudden concern for people living in municipalities without a pole. I had not waited for this from SV, it's kind of not how it should be – it's almost confusing, and it's without us having turned the cork off the bottle. But let me substantiate why the Progress Party, which has always wanted a liberal alcohol policy, does not support SV's proposals. There's several reasons for that. Firstly, the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy are established through the cooperation agreement between the government parties and our two supporting parties. Secondly, we listen to the board of directors of the Vinmonopolet when it demands that all the Pole's stores cover their own costs. Indeed, Poland operates according to very common business and market-economy principles. It will not be possible at the time of establishment in all the smallest municipalities. After the introduction of so-called Category 1 shops, especially adapted to small trading centres and communities with few inhabitants, a sales volume of 25 400 litres must be achieved annually to meet the current cost structure. By the turn of the year, the smallest municipality in the country, Utsira, according to the Statistical Central Bureau had 206 inhabitants. This means that in order to meet the necessary sales volume, all 206 would have to buy 123 litres of alcohol during the year. In addition, it is true that there are some pole sales that are so far in progress. If there is a new sale in the vicinity, it could lead to that already existing sale being unprofitable, because you steal customers from each other and feel that your own owner runs some kind of store in the store. Instead of one pole sale that goes with profit, you could get two that go with a deficit. But that might be what real solidarity is. In addition, poles in all municipalities are likely to lead to higher alcohol prices for all. For the Progress Party, we would have liked prices to go down, for example. to reduce the smuggling of goods from abroad. 96 pst. of the country's population live up to 30 kilometres from a pole sale. 91 pst. lives in a municipality with a pole. Almost everyone has access to the pole's digital offer, which is an important tool to ensure outlying good accessibility to the pole's goods, as shown by a growth of almost 30 pst. in the number of orders online. It is possible to get sent without shipping. I find it difficult to believe that SV will conduct a different alcohol policy in the time to come. I must conclude that the proposal has been promoted in view of both the election campaign and life below the barrier. In addition, in conclusion, the SV's podium dream may still be fulfilled, because once the new municipal reform is completed, there will probably be a pole in all the municipalities of the country, you will see.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4262	SV wants people to live all over the country, and we want it to be good to live all over the country, and then it's important what kind of offers people have available. What is perceived as necessary, and what is perceived as desirable in a community, depends on who you ask. Most will answer well-being, school, health and work. Many will respond to the local store, others will add cultural offerings, some also postage and pole. These are important questions for which municipalities have to take a decision and work, because they are perceived as important questions for their citizens. SV will facilitate the establishment of wine monopolies by the municipalities that wish to do so. We do not want freedom of choice to be a matter of central importance or freedom of choice to be given only to market forces alone. Therefore, we also want municipalities to be able to decide for themselves whether they want to establish poles in their communities. Alcohol policy, drug policy and social policy are part of the tasks of municipalities. It is also politically intended that the sale of spirits and wine should take place through the Wine Monopoly. In order for the wine monopoly to have the legitimacy that is necessary, it must also be an offer that is available to people where people live. Many today have good access to the pole. Here in the capital, according to the Vinmonopole websites, there are 29 pole sales. It's not all places like that. People in Mehamn today have 3.5 hours to drive to the nearest pole, while people in Másøy have 2.5 hours to drive to the nearest pole. And for the business community in Karasjok it can be without pole mean commercial leakage both to Finland and to Lakselv. Today, as mentioned earlier, there are 100 municipalities in Norway that want a pole and do not have it. The monopoly itself says that many of them will be profitable sales. SV believes that the municipalities that want to establish a pole will have it, if necessary through a fissure layer. It is fully possible to fund someone's operations with the profits of others, and it is fully possible to put on a 50-eye on a wine bottle or a 1-head on the liquor so that we can access a pole all over the country. It is then clear that the offer and opening times will obviously have to have local variations, but the principle should be open to more people in this room, namely that freedom of choice should not be left to the market alone or reserved for central strikes. Available poles are not populism; it is on the contrary against good public health work. We want the positive health benefit that could result in a dampened use of homeburn or contraband. Available poles can also give you a good selection across the country. We don't want a development where there's wine in the store, but we want accessible poles. We want a regulated but accessible alcohol policy, and we want to maintain the pole's status throughout the country. And then there's a lot of people who've been saying that a lot of the population today has access to the pole. I think that percentage is actually not the most relevant. What is relevant is that we have a number of municipalities that do not have a pole, and many have a very long way to travel to a pole, and it does not seem to be a good offer to get the Poles in the post office. That's a question that we have the opportunity to solve. Then I understand the need of the Progress Party to raddle over the proposal for SV, which is reflected in our programme, which is a debate we have raised before, and which is something we are in for and have done over time. And that need for the Advance Party comes, of course, from the fact that the spirit has never been more expensive than with the Advance Party in government. I'm not going to take on the problem of criticizing it. There may be voters who have voted against the opposite policy, but I wish that there was an opportunity to agree that at least the spirit on which the Progress Party will do something about the price should be available. I refer to the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4281	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4284	In Norway, we have used a wide range of instruments to help reduce alcohol consumption and thereby reduce the harm and problems caused by alcohol use. And, as we were in the previous debate: the wine monopoly is one of the most important alcohol policy instruments we have, and it contributes greatly to limiting the consumption of alcohol. In order to maintain the wine monopoly, it is essential that the wine monopoly be operated in an economically efficient manner. Since lower alcohol consumption and the regulation of alcohol turnover are alcohol policy objectives, the economic performance of the Vinmonopole is not determined – in addition to the requirement for the most cost-effective operation. The Board of Directors of the Vinmonopolet has decided that each store shall bear its own costs. This is an assessment that I support. A prerequisite for maintaining the wine monopoly system is that the scheme has legitimacy and population disintegration. The wine monopoly has a strong upsurge in the Norwegian people: for the third consecutive year, the TNS Gallup wine monopoly peaks its reputation among 59 well-known businesses – well in front of the Flytrain, which came in a fine second place. The wine monopoly will maintain this location and is constantly working to improve operational efficiency and accessibility. The improved availability of the wine monopoly shops has resulted in a strong over-the-counter resolution of the wine monopoly. Today there is a wine monopoly in 232 municipalities, and 90 pst. the population lives in a municipality with its own pole sales. However, I am aware that there were and still are many municipalities that want wine monopoly, which do not have it today. To meet these wishes, we have made sure that the Vinmonopole could develop a new small store model with so-called Category 1 shops. This type of store is especially adapted to small commercial centres and municipalities with few inhabitants. The concept was tested and evaluated in 2014. The evaluation was positive, but also pointed out that there were challenges in establishing such small shops. These shops will have marginal profitability and even small deviations from the established operating mode could result in negative results. Therefore, these sales must have a relatively narrow product range adapted to the customer groups in the area. The wine monopoly is a monopoly company which must have a representative range covering all customer groups. The fact that the Category 1 stores must have short opening hours and employees working part-time will provide lower professional competence, as well as the vulnerability of the store to sickness and absence. Some of this will be compensated for by co-operation with other wine monopolies, but for some Category 1 shops the distances to another pole are so large that they have to be operated as independent units. The evaluation shows that Category 1 shops can be established where there is a market base for 25 400 litres of annual turnover. In November 2014, the Board of Directors decided to open five new stores in this category. This will provide even better accessibility in the districts. I believe it is important to ensure continued good accessibility to the wine monopoly in the districts. However, I believe that ensuring good professional competence and a range of products representing the wide scope of the monopoly is important in order to ensure the opening up of the wine monopoly. In order for this to be possible, there must be a minimum market base for the establishment of a wine monopoly in a municipality. I believe that the establishment of Category 1 shops will enable smaller shops to bear their own costs, while the Vinmonopolet can establish itself in municipalities with few inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4313	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4322	Public health policy is a cross-sectoral and societal responsibility. It is about focusing attention on conditions that affect health — both health-promoting conditions and conditions that give rise to a risk of disease. Such an approach helps to make it visible that a number of societal sectors are responsible for the health challenges. A broad lashing is necessary because it affects the whole population and has an impact on health for many years to come, and indeed for generations to come. It is essential that public health measures relating to the relationship between individual health and freedom and the community are well anchored and brought about by society. Public health work is both about promoting quality of life and well-being through participation in social communities that provide access, experience and mastery, and about reducing the risk of illness, disability, mental and social problems. In the Communication, the Government presents a plan for the development of public health policy. The communication is based on the broad lines of public health policy, on which there was a cross-political agreement when the Stortinget dealt with Report. Point 34 of the 2012–2013 Guidelines. To get in touch with a public health report prior to each municipal election, since public health is a statutory municipal responsibility, the government chose to submit a notification this year. That means that this message does not cover the full scope of public health policy, but in total we have received two public health messages in two years that bring us many steps forward, along with many municipalities having stepped up their efforts in recent years. The government has chosen to focus on new policies in areas that have either not been adequately prioritised or which it believes require new solutions. Psychiatric health in public health work, health-friendly choices and active elderly people are on the rise. In addition, the focus has been on prevention work aimed at children and young people. In addition, the Communication has a part to play in the further development of cross-sectoral public health work that includes the broad welfare policy, environment, health and neighbourhood work, support for local public health work and instruments to strengthen the knowledge base. The government will strengthen preventive health work. Psychiatric health should be given a greater place in public health work and work on lifestyle changes should be given a new and more positive angle. The government will develop a new and modern ageing policy that focuses attention on the importance of active ageing. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on the communication. There is an overall committee which adheres to the major concerns of this Communication, in particular with regard to mental health and active ageing. In addition, I believe that the Committee has reinforced the need for the notification to improve the organisation of primary health services and, in particular, the coordination of efforts towards children. The Committee also points to the importance of increasing the capacity of more interdisciplinary and of making efforts as early as possible around children and families with children. A good childhood lasts life. Unfortunately, a bad childhood does too. It is with a certain expectation that the Committee sees other departments and committees in Stortinget working with measures and resources to strengthen early efforts. The Judicial Committee has recently adopted a stepping-up to combat violence against children. The Family and Culture Committee has adopted an investigation into binding minimum standards for school health staff. The Labour and Social Committee has launched a number of measures to reduce child poverty. We are also receiving assistance from the transport committee which this week has adopted a stepping up of walking and cycling. All of this shows the breadth of public health work and the importance of coordination. It's very clear that we've organized children's needs for adults' premises. We have to stop sectoring the heads of children. Specially organised education and learning difficulties are at PPT. Behavioural disorders are located in Bufetat. Fear and depression are at the BUP. Bullying is a little bit here and there. Almost all children go to kindergarten. Is it not natural for the four-year check to be carried out there? No, then, instead, we move children around to make it practical for adults' working lives, not for the children and their parents' good lives. It is soon that we have to establish the Stolpejakt.no for parents looking for help in the public utility. When mental health is becoming the new public health problem, we need to learn from the experience we have associated with past successes in Norwegian public health work. The proportion of people who smoke has fallen dramatically. Alcohol use in Norway is significantly lower than in comparable countries. Heart and macular disorders have been reduced, not least based on the experience of the 40-year history of the Tromsø study. Tooth health is another Norwegian success story. Now we need to put in the same systematics and capacity to prevent mental disorders and build mental capital. Vaksinepolitik has been another success for Norwegian public health. It shows the importance of universal action, which takes as much as possible. The big gain in public health work is to get as much as possible to do a little. I will stop up a little by vaccines even if I have a little bit of time left. There has been a political debate on that this winter. The Labour Party has changed its policy and will require vaccination. HPV vaccination has also been a debate on, but a debate that has not taken place is that many people who received the early childhood vaccination programme need to be filled. Vaccines expire on date. It's a debate we haven't taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4352	For the Workers' Party, public health work is an important and necessary part of the work of a more equitable society. For us, a fair society is a society where everyone has equal opportunities, and where an active policy is to reduce unfortunate differences of, for example, the economic, social and health nature. Disparity in these areas is often linked and reinforces each other negatively. Therefore, a broad approach to the issue of unfair inequality will always be given priority by the Workers' Party. Bad health affects all countries socially differently. For example, although everyone in Norway has improved in health, there are considerable differences related to, for example: education and income. It is therefore about facilitating a social development that balances these differences. In this context, growth conditions and early action are crucial. It is therefore strange that we have a government that is so little concerned with prioritizing this important work. If this government had shown the same power of action as they have shown in terms of tax cuts to their rich sponsors, in terms of prioritising child and youth growth conditions and health, we would have come a long way. For us in the Workers' Party, the matter is sun-ready. No tax cuts, yes to the priority of important actions for the paediatric population. The working party will therefore reintroduce fruit and green into school. We will introduce school food and an hour of physical activity every school day, and we will increase and earmark funds for the school health service. It seems so pointless to give priority to the wealthiest of society over the health of our children and young people. Nor is there any doubt that fruit and school food, combined with more physical activity, will provide more learning. Not least, one could reap long-term gains in the form of better adult health. There are therefore very sensible measures, which are likely to result in better physical and mental health for children and young people, more learning, less inequality in health, less school drop-out, less long-term disease costs, higher participation in work, etc., etc. The working party cannot see the point of even more pilot projects related to school food and more physical activity in school. It's time to show action and phase this into school as an offer for everyone, with the positive effects it will have. We also record that the right side has spent a lot of time in recent years hoaxing with policy proposals related to school fruit and school food. The answer from that edge is that school food has to be taken care of by parents. The reality is, unfortunately, that many children today do not eat at school, or eat very unhealthy. The reality is that very many children and young people are sitting too quiet. Then it's time to act. That's what the Working Party does. We prioritise public health work on a broad front, and we have a special look at children and young people. We record that we have a government that wants to prioritise society's very best position in terms of tax cuts and thus increase differences. For our part, we'd rather use government's tax cuts to develop equal opportunities for everyone and reduce differences. Public health measures that take all of them are important. I would also like to mention all the proposals made by the Labour Party, either alone or with others, with the exception of proposal No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4373	Then the representative Freddy de Ruiter brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4376	Good health is one of our most important resources. At the same time, it is important to remember that good health is not only about the absence of disease but also about mastering the challenges of life. Mestring gives life satisfaction. It also makes sense and profit. It is therefore important to facilitate people's living good lives, even if they are ill or have some form of disability. The government's ambitions for public health policy are to create opportunities and prerequisites for more people to master their own lives. The aim is for more people to be more effective in making good health promotion choices that can help give more people a good and active old age. It is important from a public health perspective to take into account different phases of life. Report. St. 19 is based mainly on three key pillars – three areas of which the previous public health report said little about: Psychiatric health should become as important as physical health in public health work. New measures to promote mental health and to prevent loneliness are therefore an important part of this public health communication. In cooperation with the voluntary sector, the government will mobilise joint efforts to prevent loneliness and contribute to social support. Many people have to experience good mental health by reducing social differences in mental health. The government therefore includes mental health as an equivalent, integrated part of public health work. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government also prioritises older people by focusing attention on the importance of active ageing. More and more people live longer with good health and have valuable resources that they want to contribute to. The Government will therefore promote a comprehensive strategy for a new and more modern ageing policy covering all sectors. An active and good life in old age is a value in itself. Being able to work for a long time will have a major impact on both health and well-being. It is therefore positive that the government, through the communication on public health, contributes to a more offensive attitude towards the participation of older people both in the labour market and in other areas of society. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government will make it easier and more natural for everyone to make healthy choices. Nutrition and diet play a vital role in the growth and development of foetal life, in infants and in children and young people. Dietary habits in growing up provide the basis for dietary habits later in life. It is therefore necessary to improve the arrangements for children and young people to have a varied and healthy diet in their childhood. The government will help make health-friendly choices more attractive and accessible to all. It just has to be easier to choose healthy. Life-style diseases are a major challenge for individuals, for health services and for society at large. A society that better facilitates good health choices is a prerequisite for individuals to take more responsibility for their health. The Government will facilitate a greater premise of social development in the interests of life and health. Good diet, physical activity and healthy attitudes to alcohol and tobacco — as the government promotes — are well on track to succeed. The creation of a more health-promoting society means giving each person the opportunity to master mental and physical challenges to which the body and soul are subjected. Mestring is a lot about having motivation for change. It involves expectations that each of us will take personal responsibility for our own lives. But it also means that society makes good sense for us to make good choices throughout our lives. Public health cannot be limited to a short period of life. Public health is equally important throughout your life. I am therefore proud to report. St. 19, Mestring and opportunities, address public health challenges for both children, young people and adults, and not least for our elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4422	The awareness of the importance of good public health is growing. It is not just about avoiding disease, but just how individuals can prevent and make choices that increase the quality of life. In the Public Health Communication, the Government presents a plan for the development of public health policy. The communication does not cover the full scope of public health policy, because in several areas there was a cross-political consensus at the time of the previous communication. This is why the new Communication focuses on new policies, and that is why mental health, health-friendly choices and active older people have been raised, together with prevention work aimed at children and young people. These are elements that were not part of the health message from the previous government. The Progress Party will contribute to the development of a public health policy that creates opportunities and prerequisites for each individual to master his or her own life. The aim must be to create a society that promotes health throughout the population. There's something that says that a good childhood lasts for the rest of your life. That is why I am concerned that children growing up in poor families should be given more equal opportunities to participate in social communities. Therefore, it is important to have a public health perspective when it comes to school age. To this end, it provides for the strengthening of health stations and school health services, in order to make this more multidisciplinary and to provide competences from both psychologists, midwives and midwives, as well as health sisters and others with a health and social background. There are over 80,000 children living in families suffering from poverty. That's 8.6 pst. of all children under 18 years of age. Apparently, it was not so easy for SV – even in a majority government – to remove poverty, something their then party leader promised to do with a pen stroke. I wonder, did she not find a pen? SV went to the choice of hot food for the school children. Now they fight for an apple. For us, it is more important to invite you to increase practical knowledge and skills about cooking, as we propose in this public health communication. Furthermore, it is important to promote good school meals by initiating meal partnerships centrally and locally, inter alia. by responding to the call of the health authorities in 20 minutes’ meal time at school. Our government is working for Norway to be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. That's why we have, among other things, reduced parental benefit for day-care facilities — a scheme for families with the lowest means of payment — so that no household will pay more than 6 pst. of the income for a nursery area with a maximum rate of SEK 2 580 per month. That means that those who earn the most have to pay the most. This is good Progress Party policy. In this paper, the former majority body of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party are asking the government to investigate a national strategy related to public health challenges for people with disabilities. When the Progress Party proposed to remove the rule that people over 26 years of age with disabilities should not receive activity aids, these three batches did not support this. Activity aids are just tools — especially developed to enable disabled people to participate in physical activity. This arranged the Advance Party for a short time after we got into government. In the opposition, the red-green large-scale proposals on matters that the Progress Party has previously promoted but that were voted down. It is nice to note that the policy of the Progress Party brings together support from an increasing number of parties. It's just a shame the red-greens couldn't give us that support when we promoted these proposals in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4445	The most important health work is to prevent people from getting sick. Measures must be targeted at people of all ages with different needs and assumptions. Public health must be considered holistic and long-term. Public health must not be dominated by political markers and short-term measures. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for systematic research into the impact of public health measures in order to provide a basis for good priorities. The Public Health Act must be followed up with financial efforts to rehabilitate the municipalities to be offensive in public health work. This is good money investment – yes, I think it’s actually better investment than putting money into funds. I want to especially bring out children and young people's mental health. Children and young people cannot always choose for themselves, and many others cannot. In particular, they are an important field of action. It is essential to intensify efforts to prevent mental distress and suffering, to eliminate bullying and to combat loneliness. We call mental illness today's people's disease. It's as common to have mental disorders as other disorders. Every five children and every five young people have reduced their function because of mental distress such as anxiety, depression or behavioral problems. I think there is a lot of consensus in this room that more needs to be done – and that has to be done earlier. Good prevention requires good lowthreshold provision in the arenas where children and young people are located. School health services are currently limited in capacity – the offer is far from sound in many places. Children and young people who need someone to talk to shall not come to a closed door. The Christian People's Party will allocate funds to the school health service during a period of escalation and establish a minimum standard for the number of employees to ensure that this service is available to all children and young people who need it. Psychologists have too little impact on prevention work in municipalities. We need psychological access in all municipalities, psychologists who are employed in or closely cooperate with low-threshold services for children and young people. It is important that we strengthen services and have a better interaction between child protection, health centre, BUP, school health service, kindergarten and school. It is essential for the individual to receive proper help and follow-up. The risk of illness, health problems, injuries and social problems increases with increased use of drugs. Noise problems are not just linked to large consumers. It is the large group of moderate consumption of drugs, mainly alcohol, that causes the most harm and disease, and that imposes the greatest costs on society. That is why the Christian People's Party is committed to an offensive alcohol policy and has, today, just helped to promote a number of proposals in this Chamber that are being voted down. A senior policy that promotes activity and facilitates communities is good public health policy. Older people are invaluable resources in the workplace. Flexibility and the possibility of gradual deceleration are central. Care must be taken to ensure that older people can be active and have a rich life in their everyday lives. It'll be preventing disease. Demos is a major disease group. We know that if we manage to postpone disease development by five years, only half will be affected. Therefore, prevention is also essential in view of dementia development. The Christian People's Party has clear expectations of an offensive strengthening of the offer of demends and an offensive effort at Demend level 2020 when it is presented. The Christian People's Party brings up the proposals that we stand on alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4466	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4469	The most important thing in health policy is public health. The central party's objectives for public health policy are to improve quality of life, prevent disease and reduce social health inequalities in the population. The government's public health report has many good intentions, but the best thing about the message is that it builds on the cross-political consensus on the overarching framework for public health policy from the previous public health report. The national targets are that Norway should be among the three world's highest-life countries, that the population should experience more years of living with good health and well-being, that social health differences are reduced, and that we should create a society that promotes health in the whole population. Norway has joined the World Health Organization to reduce the premature death of non-infectious diseases such as heart and car diseases, diabetes, coal and cancer by 25 pst. by 2025. The global goal is to stop the increase in diabetes and obesity and at least 10 pst. reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, 10 pst. reduction in the incidence of insufficient physical activity, 30 pst. reduction in the incidence of high blood pressure and 30 pst. reduction in the average intake of salt or sodium. The government writes in the Public Health Communication that they base these goals on national policies and will strengthen efforts across sectors for a more health-friendly lifestyle. I would like to stress that if the policy is to achieve these objectives, then there is a bold policy, because the objectives are quite high, and it will be imperative to achieve them. Such objectives are good, but people's right measures on which I believe this public health message is poor are needed. The government will include mental health in public health work, which the Center Party thinks is a good clarification. Psychiatric disorders are a major health problem, and the social differences are great. We agree with the government that there is a need for better treatment and stronger prevention. For this reason, the Centre has put forward a proposal for a five-year escalation plan for mental health work in the municipalities, which unfortunately was voted down in the Stortinget. Most of the prevention takes place locally. The centre is in favour of developing a programme for public health in municipalities, with a focus on mental health and drug prevention aimed at children and young people. The scheduler writes in the message that they will also facilitate health options. It should be easier to choose healthy. The central party's criticism is that one does not follow this in practice. Facilitate some attempts to increase physical activity in selected youth schools is just not enough to address the major public health challenge when so many young people are too physically active and very sedentary. Cutting out free fruit and green in the school doesn't make the healthy choices easier, it makes the healthy choices harder. It is a fact that, while the previous government's public health report of 2013, underlined universal welfare schemes and health-promoting societies, out-of-date in the 2015 Communication, the new message highlights the individual's possibilities and the commitment to make good choices about his or her health: ‘A society that better facilitates good health choices is a prerequisite for individuals to take more responsibility for their health. The government will make healthy choices simple and natural choices for all.» But there's a clear ideological dividing line here. Universal systems don't just facilitate their own health choices; they contribute to it in concrete terms. When free fruit and greenery were removed, the number of elephants using the scheme went down to 4 pst. This contributes to increased health differences. I could say a lot about different measures, but I want to mention tobacco in particular. It's a very important public health area. It is positive that the Council of State will introduce neutral tobacco packages. The progress party has opposed it, but it does not say anything about it in this setting. The centre party is also critical to include a new tobacco product – e-cigarettes – on the market. With this, I will deal with the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4493	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4497	We in SV are on the hook for people's greetings, and that's good. First, I just want to make a few small comments about public health and the work done there. I want to pay tribute to Bent Höie for especially raising the mental dimension of public health work, which is an ever-growing problem in society, and which I thought the minister is taking good care of. For our part, we can say that we have good health in this country, but we also have challenges. One of them we see here today, when we discuss people's greetings around midnight. It's not the best time, symbolically speaking, to take that debate. We're too calm. We eat too much unhealthy food, we put too much effort on ourselves, and there are more and more – alarmingly many – who are struggling with mental health. Public health – prevention, health promotion – is paradoxically at the same time the most important health work and what is too little priority. It's the treatment we spend the big money on, especially in the last phases of life. We have, as some health researchers have pointed out, even a problem with overtreatment. This shows that we are well protected on the treatment side, but too little attention is paid to the prevention field. So there are major challenges, which Norway is not alone in having, turning resources from treatment to prevention – the tough choices and priorities that need to be made here. What might be the review tone of what is the background material for public health communication is that the social distinctions in health are increasing, and it permeates all fields. Those with higher education or good advice live longer and have several health-healthy years. They feel better and suffer less from mental disorders. It proves to us that public health is closely related to other social conditions. One cannot find one country, not one society, with big differences in income between people who do not at the same time find great health differences. Classifications and health differences are closely linked. The most important struggle that can lead to differences in health is the smooth fight against inequality in society – the class struggle, the struggle to give equal opportunities to all, and not to have too many differences between poor and rich. In such a perspective, tax cuts are particularly severe for the richest. One might say that tax cuts for the richest increase the differences in health between people. It can read out of these numbers. Our health is a product of life we've lived. If we've had an active, safe, healthy and healthy growth, it's quite certain that we have good health until we get old. For SV, the starting point for people is the early years, or actually before we are born. Health services before and after birth are very important to help parents to be good parents. Some help - just a little help - can mean a lot of difference, it can be the difference between a good parent and one who can't handle being a parent. Health stations suggest that we get cleaned up, not just rusted up, they need to become more inquisitive, so that they can capture trends in health challenges in the past. The health care service, the health care service, should not only be a visitor, but unfortunately, today it is only passive, and is far from what is required by the Health Directorate in the guide for a functioning school health service. There have been some rises, both under the red-green and under this government, but the path to an acceptable standard is still long. Furthermore, we insist on food in the school. Yes, most likely we fight in vain for apple in school, a measure that has a very well documented effect on both health and learning. It is quite unlikely that the Minister of Health did not put down the full-blown foot and insisted that it should be carried on. We have just sent a proposal to introduce food to the school, and we insist on increased physical activity with extended school days. The road to better public health is challenging; it requires conscious choices to reduce social differences and early intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4518	The setting is almost the same size as the message. That's great, because there's a lot of good discussions behind here, and it also shows a broad commitment to better public health. For the government, it was important to present a new public health report to the Stortinget this spring, before the municipal elections. Good local political anchoring of public health is essential. In this way, we facilitate coordination between national public health policies and the municipal planning processes that start after the autumn elections. The previous public health report contains a lot of wise policies that I and the government support, and that got broad support when it was addressed. But there are still three important reasons why we have made a new big message about public health. The first is mental health: between one third and one half of the population will experience at least one period of diagnosis of mental illness during their lifetime. Psychiatric health challenges are one of the greatest public health challenges we have today, but the previous message says little about mental health. Being part of the community is as important as cycling to work. Being seen and accepted is as important as fruit and vegetables. Having someone to talk to when you're struggling is as important as quitting smoking. There is a need to prevent better and to ensure that more people receive early assistance. That is why we are now equalising physical and mental health in public health work. Loneliness is one of our major public health challenges. Yeah, it's actually as healthful to be lonely as it's smoking twelve cigarettes a day. Social networking – friends or family – is important for health, quality of life and mastery. We are now taking an initiative for a campaign directed by the voluntary organisations. Through the networks of voluntary organisations, we will mobilise a broad cooperation to prevent solitude. There shall be a low threshold for participation. We will create cooperation between local teams and organisations, and it is important to promote the use of voluntary resources by municipalities and not least to promote a voluntary culture among young people. Secondly, the government will also facilitate active ageing. We get older, and we live longer – many with good health. Facilitating older people to stay longer in the labour market and participate in society is an important part of this government’s public health policy. Retirement reform and raising age limits will help more workers in their 60s to work longer. It is important for the individual, and it is important for us to be able to take care of our welfare society. Now we take the next step and will challenge and engage all social sectors in how they can contribute to more active older people. Until the fall, we are completing a strategy for a modern ageing policy that covers all sectors. Thirdly, the government wants a more positive angle of life's work. We have to make it easier for most people to make healthy choices. One has to remove the index finger and get the 'thumb up'. It is the overall goal of the government in terms of diet and physical activity. Last year I took the initiative to set up a business group to participate in improving the diet of the entire population. I'm convinced that most of us want to eat healthier, but the stress in everyday life doesn't always make it easy to choose the healthy option. If the major actors in the food industry agree to develop healthy foods with low levels of salt, sugar and saturated fat, it gives results in the refrigerator to each of us, both in those who think it is easy to live healthy, and in those who find it difficult. Similarly, I want to organize society so that most people can be physically active in their own community and on their own assumptions. Someone likes to go in the mountain, others like to go to the store. Some train ski jumps; others train hip hops. The activity threshold must not be too high. For persons who are not moving much, even a small increase in the level of activity will bring a significant health benefit in terms of reducing disease risk, improving quality of life and improving functioning. I'm concerned that we're passing this on. Taking a walk with Tjukkasgågen is very important, for both physical and mental health. The most important thing is not how you are active, but that you are. Children and young people must be protected separately. It provides protection against violence, intoxication, abuse and care failure. However, it also includes protection against developing harmful behaviour related to tobacco, alcohol, unhealthy diets and physical inactivity. That kind of behavior is always more difficult to change later in life. The Government shall initiate development work with a view to establishing a public health programme. It shall take place in cooperation with the municipalities. The municipalities are close to people's daily lives through universal arenas such as kindergarten, school and the community. The Public Health Act has helped to put public health on the agenda in many municipalities. We're going to reinforce that. The programme shall focus on mental health and alcohol, and children and young people shall be the priority target group. The Public Health Programme will be an instrument for integrating mental health into all local public health work and across the different sectors of the municipalities. Support schemes aimed at children and young people shall be strengthened to ensure that all children have the opportunity to participate in recreational activities. The government's objective is to enable all children to participate in at least one organised leisure activity, regardless of their parents' income and background. I'm very happy that the Storting is busy with increased physical activity in school. Many schools succeed. We see local adaptations and extensive cooperation with sports and outdoor organisations. The core task of the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity is to provide good examples and experiences. In addition, the Centre has been given the task of developing models of how schools and kindergartens can ensure daily physical activity. But the government believes that we need a better knowledge base for future work on body training and physical activity in different parts of the education cycle. This is why we start an experiment with extended time to exercise and physical activity in a range of high school schools. Many of the local initiatives are easy to implement at primary school. There is a considerable amount more demanding in high school. Additional hours at that stage must be filled with good professional content. There is no need for tests to determine whether physical activity is good or not, but there is actually a need for tests to determine how to implement more physical activity in the demanding secondary school stage. This makes this government the largest increase in physical activity in school carried out in modern times — and significantly more than the previous government did. It is particularly important to facilitate good eating and eating habits in children and adolescents. The kindergartens and schools are central arenas, and the government will invite broad cooperation with private and voluntary actors to look at how possible resources, actors and not least measures can support local authorities, which are school owners, working with meals at school. I note that the Committee considers that there is a need to see dietary measures in the context of a comprehensive action plan. This may be useful and could also help to get an overview of the international work to which Norway has joined. In the tobacco field, the aim is to prevent children and young people from starting tobacco, so that we can avoid a new tobacco-dependent generation. It's not about people not having the opportunity to make free choices, but about protecting our children. Smoking and snuffing are harmful to health, and until now I have never met someone who smokes or snuffs who says that he wants children or less siblings to start immediately. The government has consulted on a proposal to introduce standardised tobacco packages, precisely to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco to young people. We will also consider measures to protect tobacco policy from being influenced by the tobacco industry. I am concerned that we need to reach people with drug problems at an early stage, and especially children and young people. That is why we need to catch up with parents with drug problems at such an early stage that one avoids harm to the children and that we can prevent problems from being inherited. For this reason, we will facilitate systematic testing and evaluation of early interventions in the field of drugs — an action we will return to in the escalation plan for the drug field. Children spend much of the day in kindergarten and school, and a good physical and psychosocial kindergarten and school environment should be a matter of course. The government will review and update the legislation on the physical and psychosocial environment of kindergartens and schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4561	There are documented social inequalities in health. The technical advice clearly shows that there are universal measures that work, such as fruit and green in school, school food and more physical activity in school. How does the Council of State feel that measures in public health communication and government's practical policies meet challenges related to social inequalities in health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4568	The most important cause of social inequality in health is related to education and work. The most important factor in the success of a training course for children and young people is the teacher’s competence. International studies have consistently been established. If there is something that this government has done together with our cooperation parties, and clearly on it, it is the most important factor for social cohesion both in terms of health and economics, namely the ability to carry out a training course. The next one is the possibility of participating in work. That's the second main explanation of social inequality in health. It's about the possibility of having a safe job to go to. What the Workers' Party contemptibly calls tax relief to the rich is, in effect, tax relief to facilitate safe jobs in Norway and to make Norway competitive. It has a great public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4582	I record that the Council of State does not place so much emphasis on nutrition and physical activity for the learning conditions in Norwegian school. I think that's wrong. Social inequality in health is a justice problem, a food problem, a public health problem and a socio-economic problem. It is well documented that the broad measures taken by all work best. Nevertheless, we have repeated examples where representatives from the Right only point to the individual's responsibility. What evidence does the Minister of Health have of what it costs not to introduce measures that we know promise people’s health — such as: school food, physical activity, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4591	I responded in my previous reply to the main causes of social inequality in health, and showed clearly that, unlike the previous government, this government is implementing the measures that have the greatest impact on the cohesion of social inequalities in health. Then I am also dedicated to implementing measures that affect the diet of the individual of us, regardless of the individual choices we make. That's why it's so important that we make changes that have consequences in the refrigerators and toasts of the individual of us. That is exactly why we are now working with the industry to reduce the salt content of everyone's bread and food. Now we're going to work together on the reduction of saturated fat and sugar. It's just the kind of universal action that matters, regardless of our consciousness or time to make the wise choices themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4598	Nordics are becoming less physically active, the incidence of obesity is increasing, and the obesity problem has increased dramatically. In the revised national budget, the Christian People's Party received an evaluation of the sugar levy. The Government shall now determine whether the sugar levy on sugary showers can have a positive effect on people’s health and how that charge may be set up. My question is, what kind of action will the government take to stimulate especially children and young people to make healthy and good choices and have a good diet, as children and as young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4603	Of course, this proposal by the Stortinget, for which the Christian People's Party was given the backing in revision, is to be followed up by the government. Sugar remains a major public health challenge, noise remains an important source — and other drinks. What we see, too, is that this is an area where there has been a positive development, in terms of reducing sugar use by more now drinking light products. But when it comes to the main question, it is not least important that we ensure that the dissemination in school of the knowledge of dieting is of a completely different quality than that of today, and that is exactly what we are also alerting in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4608	In the case of scholastic fruit, the council itself informed Stortinget that after the free fruit and green scheme was removed, there are only 4 pst. of the youth school students who benefit from the offer, and only 37 pst. of the schools have this as an offer. So the Council of State in the message announces that an assessment of the alternative use of the funds that are allowed to the school fruit scheme. Is it, then, that the government announces that one should terminate the entire subscription scheme and the subsidised school fruit scheme? And in case, does not a Minister of Health see that this is a bad public health measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4614	We warn in the message that we will come back again and look at how we are going to ensure that we get the most out of the money we give to this scheme, in order to improve the ability of children and young people to enjoy a healthy and good diet. What kind of action it will be, as the message also says, we will come back to. It's important that we eat more fruit and green and nuts, that's what's needed. Therefore, it is also positive that we see that not least the grocery trade is now starting to compete at price in that particular area, and at location. It's going to matter, and we see that it's important for the sale of fruit and vegetables and berries in Norway. It's very, very good, and then it's also important that we use the resources towards school in such a way that we make sure that we actually take the measures that we take.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4619	There's a lot of talk about one hour of physical activity and food in primary school. But it is also such that mental health is not included in the curriculum of primary school – the body otherwise has its place. Does the Council of State think that it is a good idea to fall into the curriculum of primary school mental health and can it help to build mental capital, regulate emotions, think smart and strengthen social behavior?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4624	Now I get a question that goes under the constitutional responsibility of another state council, so I might not be able to answer it very accurately. But what I can say is that I'm very concerned that children and young people will also get knowledge about their mental health at school. That was one of the reasons why one of the first things I did as a minister of health and care was to reverse the red-green government's proposal to cut the appropriations for the project of Psychiatric Health in school. Maybe that's why the Workers' Party warns that they are not voting for this proposal on mental health in school, because they have no proud history in this area. I'm very concerned that there are good tools at the disposal of the schools to teach children about their mental health. I myself have been in school classes where a teacher about the bad and the good thoughts. I think the representative is satisfied that the bad thoughts are the red thoughts, and the good thoughts are the green thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4631	I follow the thinking of the minister in several areas, but it's an area that I think is very unclear, and I can't be quite logical. One here thinks that there's going to be thumbs up in the government. Instead of a hand with the index finger, rather than a hand with the index finger, a good habit should be done early in children and young people so that one in a way can motivate them for better life. With all the knowledge that the Minister has about research and the access he has to professionals: if the Minister takes it inwards and now thinks in a purely public health perspective, do there exist some good reasons for a distant fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4636	I believe that fruit and greenery are important. I believe that children and young people need to eat more fruit and green than today. I'm not one of those who hassles that the previous government introduced fruit and green into school. But when that's the only thing that almost all the representatives of the red-greens have been involved in this debate, I think one goes a little wild. When it comes to priorities, which is our political task, I think we get more public health by focusing on the teacher's skills. The possibility of conducting a course of education, of taking a course of education, is that which is the main explanation of social inequality in health. So if you're concerned with social inequalities in health and you need to prioritize between fruit and green and the teacher, the teacher is the most important thing in public health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4643	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4646	It has often been said, even here today, that the health of people depends on many factors related to social, economic, cultural and educational conditions, and that cannot be said too often. I am pleased that the Labour Party has for a long time put the good public health work on the top political agenda. We know that it is possible to reduce costs, both for society and for individuals, with good, universal public health measures and well-planned health and care services. This requires a clear commitment to cross-sectoral public health work, increased prevention and early intervention in municipalities, with a good follow-up of patients. It was former health minister Jonas Gahr Støre who in 2013 presented the first public health report here to the country, as a powerful follow-up to the Public Health Act that came the year before. While the Minister of Health Støre raised public health work as one of his most important health policy initiatives, we heard very little about the topic of the current Health Council Bent Höie. But the more positive it is that today we are dealing with a new public health report here in Stortinget, presented by the very same Council of State. It is the responsibility of the community to prevent social, economic and cultural differences from creating health inequalities in the population. The Workers' Party has proposed several measures to strengthen public health. We want to earmark money in an escalating phase to expand the school health service and health stations in the municipalities. Experience has shown us that this is important. Low-threshold services such as this will be able to reach children and young people in particular, and have a major impact on young people who are struggling, not least with anxiety and depression. According to the Health Directorate, there are especially many young girls who suffer from mental distress. A well-developed school health service will be able to catch up with such problems at an early stage, before they develop into serious mental disorders. Yes, the Council of State has heard correctly. The Labour Party will introduce a free school food system, with a healthy school meal daily for all pupils from elementary school up to secondary school, and reintroduce fruit and vegetables. It is important that good dietary habits are established already in school age – and in school we all reach early life. The government has rejected the proposal with the argument that it is the parents who are responsible for the child’s diet. That's true, of course, but it's a bad consolation for the kids who come from families who are struggling and who don't always have the power to follow up their children well enough. The position of the right-hand side can help to reinforce existing differences in essential areas already early in the lives of many children. Health director Bjørn Guldvog has pointed out in his health review earlier this year that there are large social costs related to illness and accidents in Norway. Two thirds of these are related to the loss of years of life and quality of life, with health losses for the individual affected. Therefore, we need knowledge of reasons and advice on actions that can help. The two major public health surveys in Norway, the Tromsø survey and the Nord-Trøndelag Health Survey – or HUNT, as it is called – conduct public health research at a high international level and can provide us with broad knowledge that can provide the basis for the best possible policies in the field. The updated key figures from the Health Directorate are an important reminder of the importance of good public health work for the health status of the population. In its public health report, the government has raised mental health and drug abuse. That is a perspective we agree with. We will therefore make good proposals for measures that can support further work in these areas and also bring the proposals to the Grand Duchy. At the same time, it is noticeable that the Workers' Party and the Government Parties have different views on how the balance and dimensions between the general and the individual in public health work are balanced. The basic tone of the right-hand side's thinking is strongly individual-focused. Some time ago, the representative Sveinung Stensland from the Right stood in the VG and told me that he had taken 22 kg, completely for his own machine. It is commendable that Stensland takes hold and adds to healthier lifestyles and inspirations for those of us who so absolutely can afford to cover a few kilos. But it's strange when Stensland believes that his success proves that society cannot have special responsibility for people's preferences. The representative says clearly that it's just tightening up. The Labour Party's answer is that everyone is responsible for their own health, but the community is also responsible for everyone's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4667	Public health policy was not invented by the previous red-green government, although one could get the impression of it recently. The survey has dealt with public health reports for 10 years — in 1993, in 2003 and 2013, and now only two years after the previous one, because something quite significant was missing. The previous public health debate was very much about taxes, bans and reminders. But we cannot reduce the public health debate to deal with how the state should take more and more responsibility alone. We must not get into the situation where we undermine the individual's responsibility for his or her own health. Nevertheless, in some important areas, we need to take overall responsibility, for example. the State contribution to public health through the regulation we have in the areas of alcohol and tobacco. Now I get to my point in the introduction. The missing factor in the previous communication was the greatest threat to good health for many, namely mental health. Where former health minister Jonas Gahr Støre mentioned mental health 69 times in his announcement, Minister of Health Bent Höie strongly advocates mental health by mentioning it 185 times in his communication. I think it's right as well in the foreword of the message: ‘The road to better health is transparent. Where depression and influenza are assimilated.» And on the other hand, ‘Equalising and including mental health as part of public health work is an important step towards less stigmatisation and taboo.’ The large study on the health of students shows that there is only 7 pst. by students who experience poor physical health. On the other hand, 19 pst, as many as one in five, report serious psychiatric symptoms. 30 pst., or three out of ten, older over 80 years tells them they feel lonely. That's big numbers. Both the health of students and the elderly is an important picture of the major public health challenges we have related to mental health. Most of us take good, health-friendly choices entirely of ourselves, but many struggle enormously to find their identity. Young people experience that there is a very big gap between the expectations they have of life and the life as it actually is. Older people experience the loss of their closest, little contact with the world around and many hours alone in the day. I have spoken about the number of times mental health mentioned in the communication itself, but I have also spoken about the number of proposals that the red-green parties are now promoting to change public health policy in Norway. We are today going to vote on a total of 43 proposals, of which the Labour Party seems to be promoting or supporting 36 or 37 of them. This is true even though it is clear from the public health report we are debating today that it is based on and continues what was in Gahr Støre's report. There must be a very clear signal that the party was not in any way satisfied with the public health message they themselves presented just under two years ago. I think it is well noticed in the municipalities that our government includes mental health as an important new area of public health policy. It's high time and not a minute too early – and of course it's vital for many of those who work extra hard out there. It's probably a nice rhetorical point for Freddy de Ruiter's representative to try to equate taxes, which are actually important for switching Norway, with a commitment to fruit and vegetables. Then I think the representative de Ruiter should include in the assessment the bet that is now in health stations and school health service from our government and should deal with the facts. With regard to health care and school health, our government has increased the effort by nearly half a billion dollars more than his own government did. The Labour Party did not prioritise this as strongly as we do, and now the only answer is that you have to label the ear. Yesterday, the KOSTRAs came. From 2013 to 2014, we received 157 more health sisters. It's based on the 180 million. kr as the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government entered into the budget for 2014 and which we continued. I think there might be reason to have some ice in your stomach when it comes to earring, because when this field is strengthened by another $30 billion, I'm sure we're going to see a lot more health sisters, psychologists, physiotherapists and others working in the school health service out in Norwegian municipalities. It is an amazingly good and important public health measure for children and young people in school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4703	Despite the fact that the red-green government at the end of its period promoted a public health report, this government has also done the same thing. It was actually not because we thought the previous message was bad, although all the red-green proposals that are here now might indicate that I did not understand the previous one, but we were concerned that it lacked some significant chapters. Therefore, this message focuses mainly on what we thought was missing in the previous message. This applies, inter alia, to: mental health, which I want to talk about. For us, mental health is of course a part of public health. It is therefore gratifying that there is a cross-political agreement that this should be part of the previous message. Many have to experience good mental health and well-being, and the social differences in mental health need to be reduced. Better treatment provision and stronger prevention work in health and care services are needed. But this is not just about health and care services. This is just as much about living conditions, kindergarten, school, work and leisure. According to WHO and Nordic data, patients with severe psychiatric disorders die 15–20 years earlier than the general population, mainly because they also have more or less somatic diseases. The party of progress is concerned that more and more, including many young people, are struggling with mental distress. We therefore give priority to strengthening the supply of psychiatry. Unfortunately, more and more people are falling out of education and working life as a result of their plagues. Easier mental distress, such as anxiety and depression, if not addressed, will all too often develop into something more. Lack of security and a good life goes beyond night sleep, social intercourse and diet. Since we know that everything is related to everything, it is very important for the Progress Party that municipalities can offer low-threshold facilities where people live. At the same time, it is sadly a fact that many children experience bullying and exclusion through school hours, causing them plagues that often last more or less. We know that childhood has a tendency to follow you out, to both good and bad. This is why the government has worked with the children's own work environment law and its own youth health strategy. The government aims to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation in order to create a society that promotes mental health and well-being. For this reason, the government will launch a development work aimed at establishing a programme for public health work in municipalities with a focus on mental health and drug prevention aimed at children and young people. We want to use the will to prevent solitude and contribute to social inclusion. We agree with the Center Party when they point out that the annual effort in municipal mental health work has been reduced in recent years. For this reason, we have strengthened and will continue to strengthen the school health and health care services and introduce a statutory obligation to have psychological competence in municipalities. Specific grants have been granted for this work. The Progress Party has always considered that we can reduce waiting times by using both private and public providers during the process. We also believe that this ensures the quality of service. The introduction of free treatment options is an important tool to achieve this. It's basically about giving people the opportunity to master their own lives and share in how this is going to happen. Good health is not about the absence of disease, but mastering the challenges of life. Everyone is good at something, and giving people the opportunity to show their strengths and cultivate these increases the sense of security and well-being. These are important factors from a public health perspective. It is important to note that Norway ranks high in terms of well-being and well-being. Nevertheless, many people are struggling, and many feel the loneliness and exclusion so strongly that it goes well. Lifestyles and lifestyles affect the number of years of life. That is why this public health message is sweeping, from cradle to grave. A secure maternity care, the foundation wall we lay in early childhood, the youth with the special challenges young people face, adult life with establishment and work and, finally, an active and independent old age are the goals we must constantly pursue. All people have a special responsibility for their own lives and development. We're going to make it easier for people to make good choices, that they want to make good choices, and that they're going to be able to make good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4724	Prevention at an early age is not only important, it is the best health investment we can make as a society. That's exactly why we in the Workers' Party have a number of suggestions to improve children and young people's health. One of the measures we are proposing is to earmark funds for school health services and health centres. School health services must be a low-threshold service. Students should be able to raise questions about large and small, they should be able to bring joy, they should be able to bring their grief, and they should be able to raise concerns and hopes — the physical and the mental. The door shall be high and the door shall be wide. It is regrettable to note that too many people have closed the door, and the door is locked. Then it is not useful to boast that the government is giving more money, when the money does not reach their destination, because it is revealed that only half of the funds in 2014 reached their destination. I think Norwegian youth deserves better. The Labour Party shows that we are taking the problem seriously. We listen to the advice from, among others, The student organisation and chooses to designate the funds. Public health reports of the importance and usefulness of physical activity in school are very good. A number of pilot projects have been carried out with many different schemes over the years, and they say the same thing: it benefits, it works and it is possible. We in the Workers' Party are impatient, and we are already ready to put in place fixed arrangements for more physical activity in school – and not just enough of a pilot project. We don't have time to wait, because we know that physical activity at a young age belongs to good health at an adult age. It's enough that when you run out of a little bit more energy in school, it might be fun to get a little stuffed as well. I find it regrettable that the government chose to cut the scheme of fruit and vegetables in school, and I have lost the count of the number of students I have met when I have been on school visits around, both in my home country and elsewhere, saying that they are disappointed with the cut. I understand them very well, because it feels like a little bad done for the students when they get their fruit and green cut, while municipal politicians have free fruit at their meetings. It was therefore not surprising to experience at a local government meeting that youth came and bought our fruit. I thought that was fine. I like to look back at my time in high school as there were three main contributions to my success: I had good teachers through high school – I had one who was called Olav in mathematics, Soviet in Norwegian and Britt in social sciences. But as important as Olav, Britt and Solvencyig was probably the measure of lunch at school. For as a person who likes to sleep quite a long time, and who does not exactly take the time to lubricate the lunch in the morning, it was very good to use the minutes from the bus came up to school and to the first hour began, by lubricating a breadcrumb and eating some food. A good school meal is not just a nutritional measure; it is also a learning action. I think it's a shame that some politicians choose to set these two up against each other. It is not that you have to choose between school food and better schooling: school food can lead to a better school. There are clear contexts, which have been pointed out a number of times, and I think it's time to take into account what this can actually be, not least when it comes to equalizing any differences. The third contribution that was good for me at high school was physical activity. We had good arrangements, in cooperation with the West Fossen Sports Association, which made us young people run out of energy. Either it was ball games, walking, or a quiet day of chess, we had an offer where we could do something physical. Then I wish I could stand here and boast of the school health service, but I am probably one of those who experienced a closed door and a closed door. It takes more than four hours a week to meet the needs of 270 students in a secondary school. I wish we could be more involved in the school health service. Selects the Working Party to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4743	I am also allowed to mutter about my school day and what it was that I managed to do, and it is probably a small line to the representative Tokerud from Buskerud. In my time – I’ve been a few years – we went to school, and when you go to school, you go with friends. And not least you have to have good teachers, we all agree on that. But my concern here is public health and how to facilitate health-friendly choices. Finally, the person who chooses, but society needs to make it easier to make the healthy choices. The choice can be as simple as when we're going to avoid a little extra – are we going to stop in the candy bar, or are we going to stop at the fruit desk? In fact, the principle of choice implies freedom of choice, while making health-friendly choices more attractive. With increased standard of living and improved economy, unhealthy foods are available everywhere, and they are purchased everywhere. Today, the body is used less and less, and in combination with unhealthy food, it gives not only obesity but also lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases, which we spend a lot of money repairing. But increased living standards and more food do not, paradoxically, make us happier. Loneliness and mental disorders are increasing and are a public health problem, and it is great that mental health problems are today being treated in the same way as medical ones. One of the government's actions is to strengthen the individual's ability to master, and this is precisely what choices are about. We need to create the most equal conditions in order to master and organize mastering. We must have faith in our inherent forces – and not least believe that we can master our lives and change behavior when needed. Good living conditions and welfare systems and social inclusion contribute to creating good public health and reducing health differences, and it does not mean good health not being able to read or write – we have talked about the good teachers. Policy is about prioritizing, and the government has given priority to using resources to enhance teachers’ skills — a total of 1 billion. kr has been used for that purpose. And the school is the largest arena to create social cohesion. It's raised beyond doubt, it's public health. It becomes too easy rhetoric to say that less corporate taxation provides less public health. The government wants to facilitate enterprises to stay in Norway and that Norwegian enterprises that are here should have the same framework conditions as non-residents. We want jobs – everyone knows what unemployment does with health. Dietary care affects health throughout life, and there are several measures that can facilitate the choice of health-friendly: good labelling arrangements to make it easier to see what products contain sugar, salt and fat product placement in shelves that do not stimulate the purchase of unhealthy goods information that is readily available to the consumer, on the content of food use of packaging If the major actors in the food industry agree to develop healthy foods with lower levels of salt, sugar and saturated fat, we will see results faster. Early efforts are necessary and children and young people are particularly vulnerable and unable to make informed choices that adults have the opportunity to make. They must be protected separately in the case of tobacco and alcohol. It is therefore good that the government will reduce the attractiveness of tobacco by imposing standards on tobacco packages and by imposing a ban on flavourings in smoking tobacco. Kind choices are also about physical activity. But it's not like everyone can run the Birkebeiner, and if you can't, you can kind of not be active. We have very high expectations and demands for our lives, and many of the health problems may come from the fact that we should always be so good. Walking in nature is underestimated. Nature is a counterpower, a toy gate, a relative that gives identity and tranquility. It is therefore positive that the government is focusing on strengthening outdoor life, even now this year when it is the Year of Outdoor Life. I want to mention that Johan Kaggestad, best known as a trainer for Grete Waitz and Ingrid Kristiansen, was a pioneer in using physical activity as part of the treatment provision for patients in the field of mental health protection. He was a drummer for many years at Modum Bad and concerned that we should not forget that we have been collectors, hunters and fishermen. If you run around a course for too long, he said, you get dizzy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4785	There have been many great articles about many important themes. It may not be so unnatural that a little bit of what I'm going to talk about is the care of the elderly and the active elderly. For quite a long time ago, before I started driving around the country to join and lay asphalt, I was the head of the health and care committee in my home municipality, Bamble. It was an incredibly exciting time, and I came close to both employees, managers, users and relatives. I got clear feedback about what was good, and what was not good. This is knowledge that is important to bring with it as a politician, and that must be used so that the offer is constantly improved, while meeting the challenges of today and the future. It is very important to bear in mind that older people, like everyone else, are individuals with individual needs, but they also have opportunities to follow up. The experience of being useful to others and being used is important for health and well-being for all people. Several older people say they are often afraid of falling outside society. These must be captured. All in all, it is a lot about attitudes towards the elderly, as this public health report addresses itself. I recently met the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance and talked about good food for the elderly, the initiative that now challenges all the municipalities of the country with the rapporteur to look at this with food, and how older people might get a little more want to eat food. There is no doubt that many older people don't think the food looks so eely, and it doesn't seem to taste so good. At least we got to see some very good examples today of how to do that, and how to challenge all institutions and all hospitals to put this on the agenda, and get better food at home – because we know it's important for people. I remember from the time I was the head of the Health and Care Committee, that the traditional food was put down on the kitchen service and started with packages à la Fjordland – which has become something quite different today than it was at the time. Then it was definitely such that the elderly were very dissatisfied with this, and you had to go back to the old arrangement. There's no doubt that food means a lot to people. If you look at the speaker, you can see that he is also happy with food. I was so lucky to work with John Alvheim, who really put the elderly and the elderly on the agenda – the man with the index finger that got a hit for 1 billion. In 1990, in order to improve the care of older people in municipalities. This contributed to an increase in municipal income, provided that it is used for the care of the elderly. That's why it was nice to have this document from then on, from 1990. It's a reminder that it actually benefits to fight for things you believe in -- it's actually possible to get it done, as John Alvheim did in 1990. The public health report we are debating today also addresses active older people. However, it is important for me to point out that there is a difference between the elderly and the elderly. Elders are not a homogeneous group, and many older ones are healthy and healthy and have good networks with both family and friends. At the same time, other older people are left without the same network. Maybe they live far away from family, and in addition they may not be healthy. We must not make this group poor, because they can to a large extent be an incredibly important resource. I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Government show the power to take action to further develop older people's policies, by presenting an overall strategy for a modern ageing policy. The most important thing for older people themselves is often the fear of falling outside society. The experience of being useful to others and being used is important for health and well-being. This is about attitudes towards the elderly, as this public health communication also takes into account. The progress party in the government is now doing several things that I'm sure Alvheim would have been proud of. Good health is not only the absence of disease, but it is also about mastering the challenges life faces in the different phases. Among other things, we focus on solitude, because many older people today say they're lonely. That's exactly what I took for granted in my introduction. I remember this well from my time as a local politician. That is why I am pleased that the Advance Party and the Government, among other things, have initiated information efforts with non-governmental organisations and mobilised cooperation to prevent just solitude. For this purpose, there is probably – with a risk of foreclosure – 10 million. kr i revised, of which 3 million. kr has been proposed as a grant scheme to non-governmental organisations, where visits and activity friends of the elderly receive something. For some it is also important to be able to stand longer in work, and for those who want it, it is now being facilitated. I'm really happy about that. It was a huge saying that this age limit is now increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4804	It is important to ensure a social development that promotes public health. Preventing health problems is about much more than the health services can contribute. Social divisions create health distinctions. It is a major challenge that must be met offensively. Social distinctions are not erased by allowing those who have a lot of time before to get a little bit more. Social distinctions are only eliminated if the policy wants to smooth out. It is difficult to see that the agenda is high by now. Voluntary teams and associations make a formidable effort for the public. People meet and bind together through interests, life views or a burning commitment. Voluntary engagement contributes to social skills, skills, friends and mastery. Sanitary associations, patient organisations, well-being and sports activities therefore contribute to both physical and mental health. A good public health policy must embrace both. Volunteering in Norway has long traditions and great capacity, and we find it in almost all areas of society. Volunteer centres have become meeting places and hubs for building and processing social capital in municipalities. Now the government is putting the funding of volunteer centres into play. However, meeting places and association are important contributions to improved public health. These themes have been given a modest place in the big news, and the last state budget has not helped to increase the level of volunteering. On the other hand, there was an uproar because the budget was cut. More physical activity is a prerequisite for slowing down some of the negative trends in society. Therefore, the Workers' Party is for more physical activity in school. A few weeks ago, I was with the National Association for Public Health at the event Hop for the Heart. With simple means, like a jumping rope, 110 000 children have participated in the action. It is a fine measure, but more systems are needed to make schoolchildren more physically active. That's why the Workers' Party is to introduce an hour of physical activity in school, and we put funds into cooperation projects between school and volunteering in our alternative budget last autumn. We can't decide that people should move more, but we can provide better conditions for those who organize and stimulate activities. Resources that come from the profits of Norsk Tipping contribute to more physical activity through the financing of urban and urban facilities. It is not only the traditional sports facilities, but also the trails, mountain huts, skate parks and climbing walls that are being built. The fact that people have access to facilities where they live is an important prerequisite for increased physical activity. Facilities promote public health both through physical activity and as social meeting places. But a lot of sports are waiting for the payout of games. Construction has been bigger than resource availability for several years. Now, the sports teams are waiting for 2.2 billion. kr. The Workers’ Party will contribute to the recovery of this over a four-year period of funding from the State budget so that the sports teams can use their funds for activities rather than to pay bank interest on intermediate financing pending the payment of funds. Playing materials are key to multiple installations. That's what's needed, especially in the city we're in right now. Oslo is at the bottom of the application for toys, and it may not be because there are enough facilities here. It is important that we avoid new public health problems, and then there is reason to mention gambling addiction. We need to pursue a policy that can help limit the number of gambling problems. We do that by preventing aggressive games from getting into the Norwegian market. Finally, I must mention the place of kindergartens in the prevention chain. Many feel that this is important. More than 4,000 sites were built in the last four years. The government's answer is 700 fewer places only from 2013 to 2014 while 8,334 are in line. This shows that new ideas are not necessarily good ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4830	Just a few words and comments on things that have been said. The Public Health Act and Public Health Communication presented by the previous government in 2012 and 2013 received a fantastic reception, both from research teams, from organisations and from individual communities concerned with this issue. Not least, the message and the law were praised for being anchored in a broad sense of community. That doesn't mean that the Workers' Party is going to lean back and say, "Everything's done." We're not going to do that. On the contrary, I can promise that we will follow up both our own message and not least the message that is now available. That is why we have many proposals, good proposals, which are a full opportunity to vote in favour of other parties. Then I can repeat what I said in my previous post: I like the focus that that message has on mental health. But that's not the number of times the words 'psychological health' are mentioned in the message that's important. It's hard to see what kind of meaning a census and listing should have. I can't see it. No, it's about understanding what can prevent you from becoming mentally ill, what can treat, and especially what can happen as early as possible. I sometimes see a lack of understanding from the Minister of Health and others about the relationship between body and soul. When the Minister of Health has talked about the importance of training and walking, being active physically, he forgets that it also has a mental, a mental, dimension. One goes in the field, especially if one goes a little backside and gets a little sweaty and feels that one can take in, one knows that one is gradually becoming a speaker, but one also feels mentally stronger. Or, as the ladies said, who used to meet on the Thursday strip at the Friskhuset: It's so great to be here. We're going to be speakers, we're going to be slimmer, and then we're going to have a nice time. So body and soul are hanging in the jump. So social arenas are important. It is therefore important that the government sees the importance of strengthening what is happening in social arenas, for example. of culture. Is it understood that the focus on culture also has a public health dimension? It is understood that cut to 40 million volunteering. kr, which was proposed in the previous budget, actually has something to say about how people have the opportunity to meet with activities in order? This is why this type of prevention, positive activity, is supposed to prevent people from sitting in solitude and isolation. Once again, it's right, as a well-known lady once said, that everything is related to everything. In terms of physical activity and building up mentally and mentally, there are very often two sides of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4843	I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry when you're served from the pulpit that almost the most important measure for public health is tax cuts to the richest people in this country. It will create more jobs, according to the Right-Representatives, and it will provide better public health. Where did you get that? That the sponsors of the Right and Advance Party have received $10 million each in tax cuts has not created more jobs, has it not created more public health? I would like to be documented. This isn't harelation, you've chosen tax cuts over fruit. You have cut the fruit, but at the same time you cut the treasure to the richest. That is the reality. That is what is the political choice here. At the same time, the political choice is not to bet on universal instruments that work, because it costs a few dollars. No one here disagrees with training teachers and getting skilled teachers in school – I come from that profession myself. But I want to stand up for a classroom with students who are uninformed. That's what's going to be the result. 50,000 children in primary school do not have a lunch pack. What is the learning effect for them – when you don't get healthy food? Today’s 15-year-olds move as little as the 65-year-olds – or rather as little as the 70-year-olds. What effect does this have on learning? My claim and my hypothesis, after hearing more researchers in this field, is that the framework for learning about physical activity, healthy nutrition, etc., is as important as a good teacher. For these children who don't get healthy food and move, it's hard to get good learning outcomes, even with good teachers. That is the reality. That's why we can't choose between good teachers and healthy diets/more physical activity in school. We have to do both. But I understand that the government has chosen tax cuts, and then there is no room for school food, physical activity, etc. I also record that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen is talking about the school health service. I believe that we want to strengthen it, but we have learned that it disappeared too much money on the way. And my question to the Right is, how much waste will you accept? Because that's what's real here. I think it is important to focus on the universal instruments. There were also a lot of people at the public health hearing. The previous public health report was clear on universal instruments, while in the new public health report this was weakened, and that was a concern. So my challenge to the position is to put more emphasis on universal instruments – not to leave everything to the individual. It works well for many, but it doesn't work well for everyone. There is greater inequality in health if we do not focus on universal instruments and not on policies that promote equality. It's so well documented that you almost don't have to say that. But I have to say that in this Chamber, when you draw from this pulpit tax cuts to the richest ones that might be the most important public health measure. All countries that conduct fiscal policies and conduct economic policies also experience greater inequalities in health. I would like you to show me one country where you conduct a policy of this kind with great economic differences, where you don't also increase health inequalities at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4858	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4861	Over the years, we have built a society that has eliminated the need to use the body actively. At the same time, the availability of unhealthy food has increased. We have more sedentary work and leisure time with TV and social media. There'll be too little active transport, like cycling and walking. The result is a lifestyle in which the number of overweight and obese people increases. Healthy lifestyle is one of the government's three main areas of activity in the Report. St. 19. The choice of health should be made easier, and provision should be made for greater consideration of life and health as a premise for the further development of society. This does not mean that the public should do the job, as the red-green people want. There are limits to what the State should take responsibility for. We all have a personal responsibility for our own health. The responsibility of society is to facilitate good choices for individuals. The government will therefore facilitate physical activity to become a natural part of the central growth centres, such as kindergarten and school, while at the same time providing recreational and community opportunities for both organized and spontaneous play and physical development. This is already done by many schools today. In particular, they have succeeded in facilitating more physical activity. They take advantage of the local space for action, which they already have in terms of trade and hour distribution. A good example is Spjelkavik elementary school in Ålesund. In the last ten years, the school has had physical activity as a field of activity. They have built their own tour pool in the school yard and are now only in Norway with the learning project ‘Lek på strek’. Toys that promote physical activity are tested here, at the same time as they are beneficial for teaching Norwegian and math subjects. The school, an example of follow-up, can indicate increased well-being and good professional performance on national tests. It's a paradox that the opposition is now calling for more physical activity in school, those who had every opportunity to do this in connection with the previous public health report. Report. St. 19 implements concrete measures to facilitate physical activity. We strengthen swimming training and start physical activity and body training trials at a range of high school schools. The red-green government never came further than to say physical activity should be assessed. They could not fill the swimming pools at the schools, as they had promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4874	Public health in everything we do – across policy areas – needs to be successful. But we can also do something new and maybe other ways. I want to get to grips with what the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, said. When such a large percentage of Norwegian kids go to kindergarten, we should use this arena in a completely different way from what we do today – along with the health status and perhaps with both sports and seniors. Just the kindergarten can be a arena of many good measures. We should move the health station work into the kindergarten, just as we do school health. Then Mom and Dad can have a parent talk and the kid get health check on the same day. The pre-school teacher or pre-school worker meets the health centre worker. The pre-school worker can meet the mother and children every day and have a lot of knowledge to transfer to the health worker entering the health centre, whether he is a doctor or a nurse. Different professions see the young and the parents with different eyes; they have different backgrounds and different knowledge. That way, we can help both children and parents together in a much earlier phase. Kindergartens can contribute to real public health work at an early stage. We can use the knowledge in parents' meetings, in common arenas, in babysitting and in parental education. There is an enormous amount of public health work here – whether we are able to work across both policies and disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4890	I finished my previous post talking about vaccines that have date marking, and it brings me to talking about routines and systematics now, because an important part of public health work is working on what we can do, and not what we can't do. My Journal for all residents is on their way to us, but the use is now quite modest. We use a lot of resources to develop systems like MinJournal and SYSVAK. Who's been in and registered there? It's a challenge. Who is responsible for implementing and ensuring that we benefit from such large investments? I drew up the debate on health checks for 40-year-olds to discuss both responsibilities and expectations, but also routines – individual responsibilities, responsibilities of the supervisor as the nearest health mentor and the responsibility of society. It has also been part of this debate. Public health is the responsibility of all of us. 30 pst. by all those who start dialysis at Oslo University Hospital, are unknown to specialist health services. They have developed kidney failure over a long period of time and are dying. This testifies to a significant systemic failure either in the patient’s understanding of what disease is, getting sick, or in the firm’s understanding of renal failure. When half of those with type 2 diabetes develop visual impairment, become blind or end up in dialysis, there is also a sum of unclear responsibilities between the individual and public health services, which in some cases lead to very serious consequences for us as a society and for patients in terms of major costs of repair. We are facing an overweight epidemic. Diabetes and COLS are increasing and too many still suffer from cardiovascular diseases. The non-infectious diseases, together with mental ill health, are the major challenges facing us in the Norwegian health sector in the coming years. We're going to stand by the goal of reducing the mortality of the non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. By 2025, we're facing a big problem, and it's hard to see today that we're going to get to the goal. But we have the resources, we've done it before, and now we have to act. Here, too, it is important to organise and structure, as well as to apply new technologies and knowledge to help us. I have to mention that we have to use the resources efficiently. We have today, in addition to having regular services for us as private individuals, also a business health service that reaches 1.5 million out of 2.5 million employees. One of the questions, of course, is why one million people are outside, and what employees are doing it. The second is that if an annual health check is harmful, why do most workers, 1.5 million, have an annual health check in the occupational health service? This is also part of what we need to discuss, and there is a lot of money we spend on this. Finally, I would like to make the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4905	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4908	Kids represent 20 pst. by the population and 100 pst. of future. Therefore, prevention and efforts on the growing public health in small bodies are crucial. SV has fought for a long time for school food, fruit and greenery. We know that learning and nutrition are intertwined, and we know that public health and class background are also intertwined. Making sure that kids have food in their stomachs through school day is important to combat differences. Not everyone has food-packing parents, and it's probably made a big impression on many people to hear about the Swedish football player Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who describes how the food he received during the school day, was crucial for him actually to recover in his upbringing. Most people don't become football stars with such a background. Today's government gave as much to the tax-free system as they took from fruit and green in school. Removing and stealing apple pieces from young people to give cheap calvados to the richest is a policy for increasing differences and not improving public health. Universal schemes are precise precisely because they are aimed at everyone, precisely because they are directed at the broad population. But that's not just what we get in us, which determines what we have in us. Psychiatric health is a challenge that we can agree on. Available health sisters and safe adults who dare to see children and who dare to take children seriously are an essential and important part of public health work. It is more expensive to repair than to prevent, and it will always be the smallest among us that are not seen, that will pay the highest price. Strengthening public health must also be achieved by reducing poverty and differences, which must be achieved through a broad effort, through prevention and targeted measures, but also by increasing the income of those parents who actually have the lowest benefits. It is not the tendency to go on social assistance or social security that goes on inheritance, but the underlying causes, and then we have to venture to invest and invest in social work, prevention and early efforts so that the patterns that need to be broken are broken, and people can reach their full length – if not now, then in the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4922	The public health report says that solitude is as dangerous as smoking. According to the Central Statistical Office, four out of ten young people aged 16 to 24 and four out of ten aged over 80 say they are lonely. Research says that they risk a worse life and a former death, just as it is for smokers. Therefore, it is not so strange that the Minister of Health has called for a solitude alert. Loneliness is not the same as being socially isolated. Some people actually prefer to be alone – and enjoy it. Loneliness is about being involuntary alone, it's about feelings, it's more about a mismatch between how you feel social, and how you want to have it. Several young people have this spring stood up and shared their stories about how it is to be lonely. One got many ‘likes’ on Facebook for an article when she described her loneliness. Many knew each other. But someone said they didn't dare to 'like' in fear that someone would see them as lonely. It says something about how stigmatizing this is with solitude, and how important it is with more transparency on this topic. When the inability to get out of solitude becomes a permanent state, it goes on the quality of life and well. Then you might need professional help. A deep and long-term involuntary alone situation can lead to mental illness. People who are alone without wishing to do so can become depressed, and we know that more suicides can be linked to loneliness. Several older people — especially those who have become alone — say that they feel lonely and would like to have a more active life and a more social community. An 85-year-old widower said to the magazine We over 60: When you're lonely, you really don't live, you just exist. The government is taking this seriously. In fact, the revised budget proposes 10 million. for measures to combat loneliness. Public health has, to a large extent, been associated with cycling for the job, smoking and salad bar. That is why it is so good that this public health report not only focuses on physical health, but that the communication has such a strong focus on the psychosocial life we live and on the actions that promote mental health. The voluntary sector is an important partner in the fight against loneliness. Loneliness is solved by people meeting and becoming known. Therefore, the good meeting places are important, just as NaKuHel is in my municipality of Asker. There is public health in practice based on the interaction between nature, culture, health and volunteering. NaKuHel is in Asker a door opener for sharing with others. We should all be involved in combating loneliness. It is important that the issue is as clear on the agenda as it is in this Communication. With greater focus, we become more aware that loneliness is a problem for many people. Perhaps we will care a little more, become more attentive and make contact with people in our vicinity who spend a lot of time alone. It's actually one of the best things we can do to fight loneliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4941	This spring I have had the great pleasure of traveling with Trine Skei Grande on a school tour, and we have visited a number of schools and kindergartens. Many of them, in fact the vast majority, are bringing forward one thing that has been debated here today, namely the school health service. What surprised me a little bit about the tour we've had is that the school health service is important. But one of the things that they clarify when we talk to them is that the school health service is just about the health sister. Although health sisters may be the foundation stone and the most important actor, they say, "We need something more too. They point to psychiatric nurses, they point to psychologists, and actually it was a school that pointed to the police. There are a number of different challenges that children and young people are growing up with today. Teachers who have worked at school for many years tell us that they experience that children today are struggling in a completely different way, with completely different and more serious things than they did before. Not least they say that there are quite small children who have quite big problems. It makes the impression when you're out traveling that way, to hear about the challenges children have — children who don't have to have such challenges. Children who were going to be at school to learn something, to be with their friends and to develop, cannot do it, because they have such big problems either at home, or – as many schools also tell us – it is girls who have so many performance problems, or they feel that they are not doing enough, that they have quite major mental problems as a result of it. Even though they perform quite well after all the sun tags, they have a pressure that young people didn't have before, according to these teachers. One of the benefits of investing in school health services is that in school when you're all kids, and that gives us a unique platform to help those kids where they are. But then there's one thing that maybe is most important of all, and that's that school health has an open door, and that it's possible to get there when you need it. That means we have to have a school health service that doesn't spend all its time at internal meetings, but is available at school, which is easy to get access to, and where you can go in there and then, when you need it. I'm glad that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party and the government have lifted the school health service, but I also want to stress that we have a pretty big job ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4956	In 2014, the Oslo and Akershus College issued a review of social health differences and responses. There is one conclusion that in the most equal society in the world, in the most prosperous eyelash in history, there is a close connection between who is one and what health one can expect to get. Differences in the Nordic countries are no less than in the United Kingdom, which has higher income differences than we do. The interesting thing about this knowledge review is that smoking is presented as a cause. Tobacco use is the single factor that contributes most to social inequalities in Norway. In the 70-page setting, the government's party writes seven lines about tobacco. To compare, write a two whole pages on mobile health. Norway has been criticised for cutting back on tobacco prevention. Neutral tobacco packages are good and good, but I must remind you that the Right-front Party government immediately removes our proposal on the tobacco hall authorisation scheme, which the Stortinget adopted under the red-green government. This was then described in the hearing as the most important measure to prevent the extensive sale of tobacco to minors. I find it worrying that tobacco - based work is so little mentioned. The public health message has also been criticised for not mentioning dental health. The center party thinks that good dental health is closely related to the rest of the people's health, that it is important to facilitate good contact between the dental services and the rest of the health services, and that dental and dental nurses fill, and have to fill, an important role in public health work. Finally: Sleep problems are not mentioned either. According to the Health Directorate, sleep problems are among the most common health problems in the population and are referred to as one of the most widespread and undervalued public health problems in the country. The National Institute of Public Health recommends, as one of the ten key measures to promote mental health and prevention of mental illness, precisely to prevent sleep deprivation. Now it's very long at night, so I'm actually recommending that we go home soon and lie down – when we think about how serious this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4967	Yes, it is true that Norway has been criticised for being left hanging in the tobacco industry. It was under the red-green government. Now we are on the front line in tobacco work, together with the other countries that are in the forefront. There are very many countries in Europe where tobacco funding schemes are available, but few of these countries are being highlighted as priority countries in tobacco production. It's quite right, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen says, there's a connection between physical activity and mental health, not least when you can be both social and moving at the same time. It may hurt the Workers' Party, but this public health message is also a settlement with an elitist thought, that the only thing that helps is that you eat food that you've made from the ground up by yourself, and that you're looking forward to the jogging trip, and having that approach and list of what's good enough in public health work. In this public health report, we emphasize that it's actually great just to go for a walk with someone you can talk to, that it's good if you just make some improvements in your diet, but not least that we do universal things that mean that we make changes in the bread drawer and the refrigerator to all of us. In the debate, one tries to create a contrast between universal arrangements and the obvious thing that one refers to, that we also have a separate responsibility for our own health. There's no contradiction, we have to do both. The working party tries to present it as if one can choose both fruit and green and good teachers as well as physical activity in school. Well, when they were in government, they weren't able to pick both of them. They chose not to invest enough in continuing training of teachers. They chose not to do anything when it came to physical activity in school. We're focusing on what's most important to balance social inequalities in health, namely education. We are aware that there is a group in society who really experience social inequality in health, is the addict, who lives 20 years shorter than the national average. I don't let myself learn about social inequality in the health of a party that sat by the power and sat still and watched that drug institutions were shut down while thousands of people were in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e4980	I shall conclude the debate, I hope, and not contribute to a new debate. We have now discussed the great structural grips and the universal measures to strengthen peoples' minds for new generations. But I also think we should take a little trip to some smaller proposals that are also innovations in this message. The government has put forward — and the Council of State has described — an effort in relation to health centres. Today it is too few, and there are too few annual works in them. They must be strengthened. But we also point out that in the future, with new municipalities, it will be possible to coordinate health centres, rehabilitation services and even volunteer centres. Indeed, patient organisations call for greater volunteering to enter health centres. Today, for example, Health centres do not open evenings and do not target children and young people. Public health package trajectories are also mentioned in this message. Especially in overweight work, experts point to it as being very useful in reducing weight. It's a long-term effort. Social entrepreneurship is also referred to as a tool in public health. Freedom has been in the hands of others. To the representative Freddy de Ruiter, who is talking about tax havens: this message also says that it can be possible to switch volunteering towards a little tax haven. Research and development are also important in terms of public health. We spend a lot on research and development in the specialist health service. We need to get better at using clinical studies to motivate municipalities to also research and drive innovation. Finally, I would also like to mention a sectoral law on water and sewerage, which a unanimous committee believes Norway needs, in line with the fact that we have sectoral legislation in many other areas of society. It is a large and important sector that feels fragmented. In addition, waterborne diseases and epidemics are one of our major public health challenges. I thank you for the debate and commitment around the setting, and wish us both a good night and a better public health!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5001	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5004	I do not see this as a lesson, but a debate on political differences, and here there are significant political differences. Obviously, when one chooses to give billions in tax cuts and much of that amount to the richest in society, it leads to increased differences. It's a fact. And increased economic differences create increased inequalities in health. It's also a fact. Then we can take self-criticism that we should have been even more proactive, maybe, at school food and some things like that. But then there can be no argument to remove fruit and vegetables from school and give the richest in society tax cuts instead. We have room for priorities of well-being and children and young people. We choose it over tax cuts, and especially for those who already have the most. It's our policy. It creates better public health and no greater inequality in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5027	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5033	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5041	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, 7 and 8, by Helga Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 9-11, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 12, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Group of the European Centre for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, on the proposals No. 13 and 14, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government’s call for the 2016 draft government budget to increase the total revenue of the municipal sector for 2016 by between 6 and 6.5 billion. crowns in addition to the government’s proposal.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government in the 2016 draft government budget to increase the growth of the free revenues of the municipal sector for 2016 by between 4.2 and 4.6 billion. crowns in addition to the government’s proposal.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5081	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by 3,570 billion. SEK in 2016 in addition to the government proposal, of which SEK 2.5 billion. crowns as free revenues, in the draft government budget for 2016.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5100	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11, of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to base its further work on the municipal reform: the local government’s expenditure on local referendums is covered by a government grant in excess of DKK 100 000 in support of information and public hearing.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement the correction of the drawdown to 31 municipalities, which from 1 July 2014 became part of the differentiated employer’s contribution scheme in the State budget for 2016.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5126	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked not to make proposals for the conversion of corporate tax.» The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5145	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for EUR 200 million. SEK of school health service in the draft government budget for 2016.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5164	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for a 3 billion increase in the income of the local government sector. SEK in 2016 in addition to the government proposal, of which SEK 2 billion. crowns as free revenues, in the draft government budget for 2016.’ The centre party has now announced subsidized support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5183	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the services for which the municipalities are responsible, as well as the application to private institutions of central parts of the legislation relating to the public.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and return to the budget for 2016 with a model of exceptional means of action aimed both at combating unemployment in construction and at contributing to the maintenance of municipal buildings and installations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the following reasons for further work on the municipal reform: 1st@item: inlistbox On 1 July 2016, the deadline for implementing municipal decisions in the Municipal Reform shall be removed. 2nd@item: inlistbox No time limit shall be set for access to the economic instruments of the State in the event of a municipal merger.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to invite the KS and employee organisations in the municipal sector to work together to design, implement and finance a skills reform. The principles of the reform shall be an expectation for employees to keep up to date on a professional basis, a expectation for the municipality as an employer to facilitate professional development and continuing training, and close contact between the municipalities and the research and training institutions.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the free income of county municipalities in addition to the government’s proposals and to increase the loss compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking that no municipality from 2015 to 2020 loses financially to being included in the differentiated employer’s fee scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5242	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5278	The Central Party and the Left Party have announced that they are now subsidising the suspension and the Green Party has announced support for the suspension. Then there's reason to think that III is also going to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5387	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan for the after-care of young people with child protection experience, emphasising the need for resources, interaction and professional soundness.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5415	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the law so that young people with child protection measures are entitled to action up to the age of 25’. The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5434	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the internal control of municipalities in the area of child protection is implemented in all municipalities and that supervision is particularly focused on after-care practices.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5469	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-14, from Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a new regulatory home in the crisis centre law, so that the content and quality of the municipal crisis centre offers can be further regulated.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue a circular pointing out the responsibilities of municipalities to provide an acute crisis centre offer.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up regulations on the competence requirements that require municipalities to have child-restraint staff in their crisis centre services, to ensure that children are individually followed up and that their rights are respected.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children coming to the crisis centre with their mother or father receive individually arranged information, including information on what they can be offered, who they can address, and how they should relate to a possible secret address.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children using the crisis centre offer are respected their rights, including that they continue to go to school or kindergarten, either by continuing in their own or another school or kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to be able to collect the physical standards and security that exist at several crisis centres today, in order, inter alia, to improve the supply of crisis centres to men and their children.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adequately explain to the Government whether today’s geographic coverage is in line with the assumption that the crisis centre offer is a truly low threshold offer.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for different models of emergency services for those at risk of violence with additional problems, including drug dependence and mental disorders.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests that recommendations on improving the provision of services to victims of violence with disabilities be followed by the government, as set out below. Evaluation by NOVA of the implementation of crisis management laws by municipalities.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to publish a circular on the extent of the County State’s supervision that the municipalities fulfil the obligations imposed by the Crisis Centre Act, §2, 3, 4 and 8.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to assess the amendment of the law that regulates the frequency of supervision of local authorities’ compliance with the obligations imposed by the Crisis Centre Act §2, 3, 4 and 8.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce requirements for all municipalities to draw up action plans against violence in close relations, where the municipality’s crisis centre offers and procedures for cooperation between the relevant departments are also mentioned.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to address the need for transitional housing and to assess earmarked funds for municipalities in order to establish needs-tested transitional housing for victims of violence after staying in a crisis centre, and to promote action on this matter.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to impose requirements on all municipalities to have separate housing plans where social housing policies and the follow-up of local authorities to victims of violence in close relationships that need housing in the rehabilitation phase should be included.’;» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5571	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3 and 4, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a systematic investigation through the criteria set for the closure of the FM network in 2017.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to examine the proportion of the population listening to DAB radio specifically, not just digital platforms in general.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5607	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the amount is sufficient and whether the aid scheme can be financed in a way other than using the local broadcasting aid scheme and to promote the issue of the Storting in an appropriate manner.’;» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5626	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the coordination of the closure of FM in 2017 so that the closure of commercial local radio in metropolitan areas takes place at the same time as the regional closure of the nationwide commercial channels and initiates the extension of concessions in line with this where necessary.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5657	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Two, three, five. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the further long-term development of the OYS hospital offer takes place through the expansion around today’s hospital facilities.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local management is introduced into the OYS.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a plan is drawn up to address the capacity problems and upgrade needs of the OUS in the short and medium term.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5686	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 4 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop existing plans for the co-location of most hospital functions in the OUS in a new major hospital in Gaustad.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the OUS local hospital offer is extended, including the restoration of Aker hospitals as a fully-fledged local hospital.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5717	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5749	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that hospitals in the four municipalities of Nord-Troms, Nordreisa, Skjervøy, Kåfjord and Kvänangen continue from 1 January 2016 on the basis of a model which the municipalities themselves find useful and which at the same time provides the best services to the population of the region.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's position on I.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5769	The President makes it clear that this could be a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5801	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No. 9, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 10-14, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 15, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 16 and 17, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine whether the fees for the allowance provided for in Section 6-2 of the Act on the Sale of Alcoholic Drinks, etc. should be amended in such a way that the fees are no longer defined as minimum rates, but that, in exceptional cases, the authorising authority may decide that the fee should be increased.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement that abstinence is a prerequisite for public support for sporting events.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5844	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the alcohol law in order to reduce the maximum turnout time from 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.00.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5861	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-14, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether it should no longer be permitted to have slot machines in places where alcohol is supplied.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for equal treatment of the sales and donation rules/change of the alcohol law so that it is not possible to dump the prices at the premises.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for measures limiting consumer product information.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stronger measures to be taken against smuggling to Norway through improved control mechanisms, such as more mobile scanners and sufficient means of operation for control work.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the advertising law in order to ensure a clear interface between the advertising ban and product information and to ensure more appropriate response options in the event of a breach of the legislation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5898	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government of the State budget for 2016 to reverse the change in the tax-free quota introduced in 2014.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5917	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to cooperate with sports organisations to strengthen their efforts to promote sport in an alcohol-free zone.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e5936	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to provide relevant data and to prepare a social account to shed light on the enormous costs of alcohol use for society, working life and not least for individuals and their families.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain the ban on alcohol advertising.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of voluntary teams and organisations engaged in information and awareness-raising activities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen AKAN’s work. [[Workplace competence centre for drug and addiction problems]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size of the population calls on the government to improve the organisation of treatment provision for whole families in the event of alcohol problems.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that pregnant women are well informed of the harm that alcohol consumption can cause during pregnancy, including ensuring that all pregnant women are informed of this during pregnancy control.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that pregnant women with drug dependence are followed up more closely and to consider setting up their own drug withdrawal institutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6002	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 7-9, by Mr Olaug V. Bollestad, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 10, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 11 and 12, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of framework funding for palliative treatment in hospitals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6038	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2015, the government is asking the Storting to sue for the follow-up to the Kaasa Committee and to further develop care pay and care arrangements for relatives and other communities providing palliative care at home.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 93 representatives voted against the proposal and 11 representatives voted in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.46.27]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6054	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6059	Then the number of votes 94 against the proposal of the Central Party and 10 for. There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the system of input-driven funding for dying patients in hospitals and to assess the creation of its own DRG rate for palliative beds in hospitals.’ [[ISF]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6080	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a life support plan which includes at least 600 new municipal relief centres by 2020 and grants for their operation.’ [[lower]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring the Storting forward an adapted investment grant scheme for palliative, municipal units and to address the need for specific financial arrangements in order to ensure sound operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6102	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a life support plan, including the establishment of financial instruments to stimulate increased cooperation between research institutions, universities, universities and the municipal care service.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6121	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for increased medical coverage in hospitals to ensure specialised treatment and pain relief for the seriously ill and dying.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asking the government to ensure the establishment of outpatient teams for relieving treatment in municipalities or cooperating municipalities that lack this service provision.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6145	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for enhanced skills and services in the field of palliation, including for children, as well as for the organisation of a variety of offers, including different hospice models.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6164	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government for better arrangements for the permanent staff to carry out home visits in severely ill and dying patients.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a life support plan that stimulates a wide range of competences on palliation among health professionals in the community health service.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive and individualised offer to seriously ill and dying children, including ensuring the family access to the coordinator with the utmost competence, regardless of the child’s diagnosis.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6239	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through a new Health Administration Act to set up about 20 hospital administrators where the majority of the board is elected by and among the county members.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up, by means of a new Health Administration Act, the operating boards of the hospitals in which the majority of the members are elected to the public, and to establish local management with professional, economic and personnel responsibilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6270	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that policy priorities for quality, recruitment and education, functional distribution, location and organisation of specialist health services take place through national health and hospital plans. This plan shall lay down the framework for the public-elected management of hospitals.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to promote legislative proposals replacing the Health Business Act by a new Health Administration Act with popular hospital management.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the financing of the specialist health service so that hospitals are mainly financed as a framework.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6315	During the debate, a proposal was put forward from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that wine monopoly sales are available in all municipalities that want to do so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6348	A total of 42 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 7 and 8, by Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 9-19, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 20, by Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, Left and Left Party proposal No. 21, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 22 and 23, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Left, proposals No. 24, 25 and 27-35, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 36 and 37, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 38 to 40, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 41 and 42, by Mr Toppe, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 43, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6392	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the legal right to be followed at a distance if you have two or more chronic disorders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6409	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41 and 42, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the subscription scheme for fruit and vegetables a mandatory offer for schools to offer.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the subsidisation of the scheme for fruit and vegetables at school in order to ensure that the offer becomes more reasonable and accessible to more people.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6433	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38–40, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a stepping-up plan for mental health in the municipalities and to finance the plan of escalation by means of a specific initiative with earmarked funds.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the use of economic instruments to promote a healthy diet.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce nutritional criteria as valid considerations in the tender legislation.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6462	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a low-threshold assistance service for children and families in all municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6477	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an Action Plan for Health Centres 2020.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6494	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include mental health in general municipal documents, such as financial plans and health plans. Mental health services should be organised in multi-disciplinary health centres to ensure good interaction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6509	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 27–35, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more permanent psychologists to be employed in the municipalities to ensure the offer throughout the country. Psychologists must work, among other things, preventive, interdisciplinary, individual and group-oriented, and with early intervention for children, young people and adults with mental disabilities.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a multidisciplinary stepping-up plan for prevention and early intervention for mental health, in particular for children and young people. Part of this work must involve a review of all services aimed at children, young people and families with a view to better interaction, division of work, clarification of responsibilities.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The biggest demand is for the government in its work on a youth health strategy to focus in particular on hearing children and young people in the development of health care.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to prevent the increasing body pressure of young people today.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the possibility of establishing eHealth Sister Service.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider opening the way for health care providers to refer to the BUP.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to map local and regional resources that can be allocated to children and families in crisis and to make crisis teams a law-enforced service in municipalities.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a community action with measures to promote physical activity near people’s homes, such as tours, roundabouts, etc.’. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess incentive schemes for municipalities testing interdisciplinary health centres.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to strengthen the work of day-to-day rehabilitation in the municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6574	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Workers' Party and the Left. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national strategy for the implementation of mobile health in Norwegian healthcare.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a technology-neutral funding model that provides incentives for healthcare to make web consultations equal to physical follow-up and to reward ongoing network follow-up.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6598	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make concrete proposals for a more committed and coordinated related policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6613	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a national strategy for social entrepreneurship in general and the Ministry of Health and Welfare to develop its own sub-strategy on public health in particular.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6631	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-19, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess measures that strengthen the Norwegian wine monopoly regime.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy to reduce social disparities in health and a strengthened policy for distribution, and to anchor this work in all its relevant key messages.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the midwifery service with several annual works, based on full positions, in order to ensure good maternity and maternity care.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater use of physical activity as a means of strengthening health at work, the aim of which is to make people more at work and reduce sick leave.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a healthy school meal for all pupils in childhood, high school and high school.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reintroduce fruit and vegetables into school.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take action to increase the recruitment of health professionals with special competence for problems of abuse and the ability to detect violence in close relationships.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all children and young people are taught to swim in order to achieve the objectives of the curriculum and to draw up a national action plan to ensure that the training is carried out with good quality, in order to achieve the objective’.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a commitment to volunteer in general and to the further development of children’s and young people’s rights. Several sports and activity facilities need to be built for broad physical activity and good arenas for general cultural activities. Available lowthreshold services and non-competitive services for children and young people are particularly important in population and metropolitan areas. Loans from public facilities and schools for sporting activities for children and young people under 18 years of age should be free of charge.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the launch of an investigation aimed at developing a voluntary and innovation strategy for public health and care, where capacity, tasks and incentives are discussed, in particular in view of the capacity challenges we will face in the care of the elderly from 2025.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals, as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the 2016 state budget, to extend the HPV vaccination programme in line with the current health advice.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6702	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to start the introduction of 1 hour of daily physical activity in school.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen funding for school health services and health centres, including the designation of funds for the service for the entire school cycle during an escalation period.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6726	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing national police and medical reporting procedures related to drugrelated events’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6741	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better and more coherent alcohol statistics to be developed at national and municipal level and for tax-free sales on ferries to be reported and incorporated into a national statistics together with estimates for border trade and smuggling.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6758	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the organisation and funding of the fixed medical system, with a view to changes that can support the participation of decision-makers in prevention and public health both in the immediate environment and in relation to the individual patient.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6775	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further public health services to include dental services and to facilitate good contact and interaction between the dental services and the rest of the healthcare system.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities regularly carry out youth data in secondary and secondary schools, in order to ensure information on drug use among young people.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national strategy related to public health challenges for people with disabilities’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-16.ana.ud1213e6859	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
