ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e27	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has asked for the floor to withdraw a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e30	I refer you to the representative proposal 111 S for 2014–2015 from myself and Audun Lyssbakken to legalize the infringement reception. I would like to draw up this proposal because SV wants to see how the practice under the new legislation in this area develops, before we may come back to how the offer of people to be subjected to violence and abuse can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e35	The notification of the withdrawal of the proposal by the representative of Kirsti Bergstø is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e47	This state budget has existed at a time when the economic outlook is different from what we have been accustomed to for the last 10–15 years. Since last year, the fall in oil investment has reinforced a trend that was already under way. Many now lose their jobs in the industries and parts of the country most affected by the fall in oil prices. It is bad for those affected – individuals, families and small and large businesses. The fall in the oil price is a reminder that the Norwegian economy is going through a transformation – what we have today is changing. For Norway, this means that the oil no longer becomes the same engine of growth in the economy. For workers and businesses, it may be necessary to convert to new activities. The government therefore provides a budget for work, activity and conversion. Faced with a demanding shift in the economy, the most important thing we can do now is to stimulate growth in private, competitive business. That is why we are putting forward a tax reform with lower taxes on what we want more – investment and growth in business and jobs. That is why we continue the efforts of the times in the field of transport – it strengthens growth. Therefore, we focus on knowledge, research and development – our main resource, the labour force, should become even more skilled. At the same time, we are presenting a package of measures for increased employment. We are correcting the efforts in the areas that have been hit most by the fall in the oil price. We are strengthening efforts for the unemployed. And we strengthen the social security network – for addicts, for children growing up in poor families, for adults at risk of falling out of work. The state budget for 2016 responds to today's challenges and equips us for the future. When we found the first oil resources in the North Sea 50 years ago, political Norway joined the business community and laid the foundation for a world-leading oil and gas industry and secured large revenues for the country. When we found the oil, we showed off. We as society and individuals have experienced the value of the wise choices our parents and grandparents made 50 years ago. On 17 August 1965, the first concession round was announced. This year, the government announced a 23rd concession round. It will be an important contribution for our children and grandchildren to experience the value of the oil adventure for many decades to come. But we have to plan for a future where the demand from the oil industry will be lower. We need to facilitate the growth of other industries in Norway, creating new values and more jobs. Making changes is demanding. Now we have to make the right choices, so that we can facilitate growth in value creation and well-being for the next 50 years. It is the founder of the West, the small-scale farm manager in Hedmark, the fisherman in the north and the labour effort of ordinary people throughout the country that will continue to develop. It's our job as politicians to facilitate that. Everyone agrees that working for everyone is an important goal. But this goal is not enough to keep people at work. The crucial thing is that we fulfil the goal of working for everyone with content, that we facilitate the creation of businesses, values can grow, and people can get work. Behind every job that is created, there have been some who have believed in their idea and the ability to put the idea into life. When we're going to continue our development, we have to do it on the basis that it has to be easier to succeed in creating jobs. Then we build better opportunities for people to be innovative and to cope with the changes we encounter. The government's 2016 government budget is doing just that. We invest in the people's knowledge. We invest in business start-ups, in the ability to create new jobs and secure jobs. We invest in the opportunities to participate in the labour market – through a good health system, good roads and collective solutions and a safe social security network that gives us help when we need it. Norway is a good country to live in. We have a highly educated population and are rich in natural resources that provide opportunities for a few other countries are miserable. We have a good foundation. But now we meet challenging times. Money policy is our first line defense when it goes against it. Lower crowns and lower wage increases are a clear advantage for export companies, suppliers of oil and other companies facing competition from abroad. It contributes to the necessary transformation of the economy. However, the level of costs will be clearly higher than the average of our trading partners. At the same time, the growth in productivity – what we get left for every hour of work we lay down – has fallen back since the middle of last decade. Low interest rates and other monetary policy measures, both at home and abroad, support under economic activity. In Norway, a low level of interest rates contributes to the growth of household demand for goods and services. More people in the country have got a job. The number of persons employed has increased by more than 20 000 in the last year. At the same time, the number of unemployed persons has increased. Unemployment has increased mainly in the counties of the South and West, which have a strong connection with the oil industry. The availability is lower or unchanged in the majority of the other counties. Unemployment has increased most among young people. It seems to have become more difficult for young people to enter the labour market next to school and at the end of their education. Overall, the government is laying the foundations for a relatively weak growth in the Norwegian economy this year, somewhat better next year and a growth against trend in 2017. Economic policy is an important reason why growth is estimated to rise. Unemployment is expected to rise slightly from today's level. The estimates are uncertain. The fall in oil prices since last summer shows that the outlook for the Norwegian economy can change rapidly. In particular, economic developments in China are uncertain. A setback in China and other emerging economies can reduce oil prices even more and cause concern in financial markets, as we saw in the late summer. The rise in the euro area is fragile. At home, it is uncertain how much demand from the petroleum industry will react to lower oil prices and how it will turn out in the Norwegian economy and in the labour market. Developments also depend on how enterprises and households react to the outlook for a weaker economic development and how competitiveness develops in the future. For 2015, the government raised an oil money use that contributes to the demand of the mainland economy from last year to this year of 0.5 pst. The budget was thus more expansive than it has been in the past 10–15 years. Some people then criticized the government for spending too much oil money, but the result is that we have had a budget well adapted to the economic situation, which has given us greater security for employment and growth than if we had used less. Fortunately, the government was out early. Also for next year, the government will set up fiscal policies so that the Norwegian economy is best prepared for lower activity in the oil industry and uncertain economic times. It is a particular challenge that many now lose their jobs in the industries and counties most affected by the low oil price. The government will therefore take the necessary steps in the budget to strengthen its efforts for work and activity. Fiscal efforts are reinforced by specific measures for increased employment of 4 billion. kr, with a focus on areas that are particularly hard hit by the setback. We have planned major investments in the modernisation of Norwegian society over the coming years. We're reinforcing a number of these bets: on more modern, efficient and environmentally friendly transport in better schools and universities of innovation, entrepreneurship, knowledge and research We will speed up the economy here and now and at the same time contribute to a more growth-intensive economy that can provide better well-being, environment and secure jobs in the future. Overall, the government’s draft budget will contribute to the demand of the mainland economy from this year to the next year of 0.7 pst. Oil money consumption in 2016 will be equivalent to 194 billion. NOK or almost NOK 37 000 per capita. Economic policy, as a whole, means a vigorous effort over a demanding period of time. This is true in today’s economic situation, both to support the short-term activity and to contribute to change and innovation. And we are aware that the increased use of oil money should also lead to lower taxes and taxes. There are two main reasons for this: A lower level of taxation and a tax system that promotes better resource use are the main measures to promote business conversion, value creation and jobs. Increased employment in the public sector cannot be the main response to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy at present. What is required is to facilitate growth in business. It is absolutely vital to our prosperity. Nearly two million people work in business throughout the country – in small and large enterprises. Such jobs do not come of their own. A good tax system is important for employment, value creation and well-being. A better tax system can increase the number of jobs and make the economy more productive. When individuals can decide more about their own income, it stimulates more people to work. And when we lower taxes on business, it becomes more advantageous to invest, invest and create jobs in Norway. It is the value of our work that finances the Norwegian welfare community. What we create from values gives us new welfare arrangements. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one presupposes the other. The government has now reduced taxes and taxes by over 13 billion. kr. Both ordinary people and business have been relieved. In the budget, the government is proposing new, significant reliefs that can contribute to investment, growth and jobs. We're proposing new reliefs in taxes and taxes of a total of $9.1 billion. kr. The biggest and most important tax relief is to reduce the corporate tax rate from 27 to 25 p.m. and to do the same with the income tax for persons. There is an important change in order to reduce the risk of companies moving taxable profits out of Norway and to ensure future investment in Norway. When we lower the corporate tax, we make it more profitable to invest in Norway, and we strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. The government's proposal for tax treatment is the first step in a major reform of the tax system, which we present at the same time with this budget. The aim of the tax reform is to make our economy growthier. Therefore, it is worth investing in Norwegian jobs. And it's going to pay off to work, because work and activity are the very basis for our common well-being. Such a tax policy will also have good dynamic effects and give rise to higher economic growth. In view of the economic challenges now facing the country, with falls in oil industry demand, 2016 is a good and proper time to launch the follow-up to the Tax Committee. When the government presents the tax communication at the same time as the 2016 budget, the Stortinget will be able to see the 2016 proposals in a broader context. We want to facilitate a broad settlement on the tax changes. It will contribute to predictability and stability. It can promote economic growth. The current economic situation gives additional arguments to reduce the level of taxation. High taxes impose burdens on business and make conversion more difficult. Like the Tax Committee, the Government proposes that lower taxes on general income be partly financed by a new gross tax on personal income. The government is proposing the creation of a new step tax that replaces today's top tax. The threshold tax shall ensure a good distribution of the tax burden. Persons with high incomes shall pay more in taxes than those with low incomes. It is unwise to reduce corporate tax without the relief of ordinary people. Therefore, the tier tax is designed to provide relief and the total marginal tax on labour is reduced. It will stimulate increased work. As part of a major tax reform, where tax relief is granted to broad groups, it is natural to go through different deductions and special arrangements in the tax system. At the heart of each job in business is large investment. Norwegian capital and Norwegian owners contribute to the start-up of several new enterprises and to the conversion of established companies. The property tax clearly has a negative and unfortunate effect on private Norwegian ownership because it only affects Norwegian owners. The taxes on wealth may also affect investment among enterprises that rely on Norwegian capital. A founder in Haugesund cannot acquire equity in the international capital market to the same extent as an international group. The small business owner in Haugesund is dependent on local investors. For such enterprises, it may be important how Norwegian owners are taxed. The government therefore proposes to increase the asset tax base to 1.4 million. kr. Reduce the rate to 0,8 pst. At the same time, the valuation discount for commercial property and secondary dwellings is reduced to 20 pst. It will distort investment from real estate to industrial activity. With total tax reliefs of SEK 9.1 billion. In 2016, the tax base will be approximately 22 billion. kr lower than when the government took over. With the government's proposal, about nine out of ten taxpayers get relief or unchanged tax. The average tax relief is NOK 1000. All income groups except those with gross income above 2 million. kr receives tax relief on average. The self-employed comes out well with average relief of NOK 3 400. The sum of our tax arrangements are tax changes that increase the growth of the Norwegian economy, greater opportunities for Norwegian enterprises and security for Norwegian jobs. In order for Norway to continue to be a rich country, we need to lay the foundation for future value creation now. We have to make it possible for businesses and people to come up with the good ideas. Research and development is one of the main sources of innovation and long-term growth. In the next year's budget, the government proposes to increase public funding for research and development to over 32 billion. kr, corresponding to 1,1 pst. GDP. This is the largest research budget ever, both in dollars and as a share of GDP. The government is following up the long-term research and higher education plan. We will create new recruitment positions, invest more in research infrastructure and stimulate Norwegian researchers to participate in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. A strong commitment to higher education and research is both a prerequisite and an instrument for a more competitive business, green jobs and more world-leading professional environments. We also strengthen the study funding and facilitate the construction of 2,200 new student homes in 2016. As Minister of Finance, I meet a number of firemen who work with all their strength to make their visions a reality. Earlier this year, I met the owner of SalMar ASA, who is staying at Frøya. It was an inspiring meeting. SalMar is a company that has taken knowledge from Norwegian offshore technology at sea to fish farming in the Pacific Ocean area outside the South Seas. Here, the best is combined from two of our main export industries and creates opportunities for new growth. This is an example of how the petroleum industry is a source of ideas and innovations and how technology from the oil industry can be used for new industries and new jobs. The point is, we don't yet know how knowledge from part of the economy can be used in other contexts. We therefore need a strong commitment to research and development and, above all, to commercialisation of research. TaxFUNN shall trigger socio-economical profitable research and development. The Government will strengthen the scheme by raising the amount limit for the deduction of own-executed and purchased research and development. In the context of the State budget, the government is also presenting the Founding Plan to create and strengthen a culture of entrepreneurial activity in Norway, and we are proposing to increase the budget by 400 million. kr to various founding measures. In total, the government’s research effort – investing in maritime value creation along the coast, founders throughout the country and world-leading educational institutions – is a powerful contribution both to migration, growth in existing industries, and as a basis for new jobs. Well-developed road networks and efficient public transport are essential for all of us everyday whether we are going to deliver in kindergarten, go to football training or transport fish in car combinations from More to Gardermoen. Better infrastructure is one of the main initiatives of the Right Party Government. An efficient and modern infrastructure provides the basis for increased value creation and strengthens the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Effective solutions for public transport make everyday life easier for people most, and less central areas can become good residential areas to reduce the pressure on the housing market. Next year's transport budget is a strong boost to build the country. The government proposes a real increase of 3.8 billion. kr from 2015 until the follow-up of the national transport plan. Even without further escalation, the framework for the first four-year period of the transport plan will be overfilled. The total increase in road use appropriations by 18.5 pst. This facilitates too high activity in road development. Increased maintenance and bets on the walk and cycle path are other bets. Transport is also about local roads, maintenance, rail and public transport. People like to be just as concerned with dangerous junctions in the neighborhood as getting two-field highways out of town. Therefore, the county roads are given a significant lift. We do that both through increased transfers to county councils and through interest compensation for a new investment framework of 3 billion. kr. This will contribute to better maintenance and increased renewal of the county roads. After many decades of increasing maintenance kits, the government has reduced the backlog in 2015. A strong commitment to maintenance and renewal in the State budget will lead to a further decline in the follow-up in 2016. The government continues its record-breaking efforts on the railway. The appropriations for the Railway Agency are about 50 pst. higher than before the government change in 2013. Special maintenance effort has increased. There will be good progress on all railway projects under way. There will be further planning and development of the intercity sections. We'll start planning the Ringerix track, which when it's done will bring Oslo and Bergen one hour closer to each other. And the NSB can invest in new train sets – in the East, Gjøvikbanen and Vossebanen. This shall improve punctuality and comfort in train traffic and facilitate increased capacity in the longer term. The job of taking the maintenance session is continuing. Railway maintenance is increasing by more than 30 pst. in 2016. At the same time, we need changes in the railway organisation. The Government will therefore carry out a reform of the rail sector. The railway works and the NSB shall be restructured and there shall be increased competition for passenger train services. The goal is a better everyday life for travelers and carriers. Before the summer, the government put forward proposals to set up a road development company. It shall plan, build, operate and maintain some long road sections in a holistic and coherent manner. Until now, roads in Norway have been largely planned and built piece by piece and split. The development company will be able to see the development projects continuously and completely. The government's proposal involves the company being granted 1.3 billion. SEK in direct appropriations and operating credits in 2016. Increased socio-economic profitability is an important objective of the ongoing reforms in the sector. We have established a dedicated infrastructure fund that provides more predictable financing for transport infrastructure. We said that the fund should be filled up to 100 billion. kr during the government period. With this budget, we are already reaching that target in 2016. This government has shown that it really is on the road. It should have been done a long time ago. Now it's happening! It is the employees of the welfare services of the municipalities that are the first line in the Norwegian welfare society. It is those who receive the children in the kindergarten in the morning, give homework and meet for parents’ conversations, and go on home visits to elderly nurses. They're our everyday heroes. It is also the staff who assist many of the most vulnerable in society. In order to strengthen well-being, priority must be given to these positions. It happens by strengthening the local economy. In the 2016 budget, the government provides a stronger municipal structure than announced in the municipal bill. We're adding up to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of 7.3 billion. kr. Well over half of this is free income. This enables municipalities to strengthen services that are most important in people's everyday lives – kindergartens, schools and care services. Nothing is more important to people's opportunities in life than education. The nursery shall be the first meeting of the child with the knowledge society. Children should learn to play, create friendship, stimulate curiosity, language and build social skills. Therefore, one of the government's most important promises to children, parents and employees is that the quality of kindergartens should be improved. We're strengthening the quality of babysitting in kindergartens by 160 million. SEK, to a total of 440 million. kr. It's far more than a double in the two years we've been in government. The growth of free income also facilitates more nursery places and thus more flexible admission. The foundation already laid from kindergarten and the first day of school is important for the rest of your life. The smallest children meet proudly and excitedly for the first day of school with great expectations of learning. The government's objective is a education system with knowledge and quality at all stages, adapted to each student. Only in this way will we enable the individual to meet later school and work in a good way. That's why we're betting on even better teachers, more school hours and targeted bets in selected subjects. More than 5000 teachers will be offered further training in 2016. We are proposing to strengthen the real science work. We're betting on high-level students, and measures for better learning for those who are struggling. And we're strengthening our efforts to read and write through continuing education for teachers. By investing in knowledge, we lay the foundation for the business life of the future. What we invest in knowledge, we get back in the future. And the more we teach our children in the formal education system, the more we become able to learn in the workplace, be innovative and cope with the changes we encounter. It's very serious for society, and for the individual, that half of those who start a vocational education never finish. This is why the Right-wing Party Government has launched a series of powerful measures to get more people to choose and complete a profession. Through a professional career, we will train several good professionals for Norwegian business. The apprenticeship grant had remained silent for more than 10 years until the government change, except for a temporary increase in 2009. Under this government, the grant has increased three times in two years, with a total of NOK 10000 per contract. With the government's youth package, the apprentice's grant to the companies increases by a further NOK 2 500 per apprentice. Good health is important in all people's lives. That we get the right treatment – of high quality – when disease threatens, provides security. Much is good in Norwegian healthcare, but we can and should do better. When we pay high taxes, we also have demands for a health care service of the highest quality. It is a heart issue for the government — and we have taken a number of initiatives to ensure patients’ health: in 2013, almost 250,000 were in hospital queues. The queues rose. The government's goal has been to bring down the queues. Rapid treatment is both a good economy and provides security for the individual. So we're proposing close to $2.9 billion. kr in increased hospital appropriations to allow more people to be treated. Even more important than resources are the results for patients. Hospitals provide more treatments today than two years ago. Nearly 18,000 fewer patients are waiting for treatment compared to the same time two years ago. With increased resources and higher growth in hospital activity, even more people can be helped next year. The quality of the treatment of life-threatening diseases must be improved. For example, the cycle of cancer provides greater predictability and safety. If you have cancer, healthy diagnosis and treatment are vital. Nearly eight out of ten cancer patients who are in the cancer package are now receiving treatment within the prescribed time frame. This shows us that a better health care often involves as much better solutions as more money. The goal should always be to save lives. No one should miss out on the family pictures of the future because they didn't get the help they needed at the time of the haste. Before the 2013 elections, we promised to bet on the drug field. We promised to buy more treatment places from private and non-profits. We promised faster treatment and shorter waiting time. It's given results. In the last year, waiting time for specialised drug treatment went down by almost two weeks on average. Two weeks is a long time for a drug addict who is motivated for treatment. But we still have a good piece left. For too long, too many people have fallen outside — people who are struggling with alcohol and with mental disorders. Russ and mental health are therefore only out when we introduce free treatment options. It is high time that this group was given priority first — when we introduced new rights and increased freedom of choice. And we have to get a complete treatment chain all the way into the goal. For many addicts, the hardest job is to deal with different people, different offices, different sectors and different application forms. The help is for the broken up, too incomplete. In the course of the fall, we come up with an escalating plan for the drug field, with the plan following a frame of a total of 2.4 billion. SEK in the period 2016-2020, including: is to be used to strengthen the work of drug users in municipalities. With the plan, we provide a strong boost for treatment, housing, health care, early interventions and aftercare. It's about getting a change for the better for the individual addicts. It's about creating good and whole services. That's why it also means something when we bet in health stations and school health services. We provide 150 more psychologists in the municipalities. This is a significant bet. The aim is for all municipalities to have psychological competence in 2020. We have to start early to prevent disease. We have to start early to prevent school drop-outs. We have to start early to prevent addiction. Psychiatric disorders are a serious public health problem, and it is important to have a good and rapidly available range of services in the municipalities – they need to employ more psychologists. It is an investment for the future – an investment in people with abilities and resources. Health and care services are not just for the treatment of disease. They're just as much to give the opportunity to master, to have a good everyday life and a meaningful life in spite of the fact that old age makes life change. Although most elderly people live active and safe lives, stay healthy and live at home for as long as possible, many will need help at home or the safety of living in a nursing home. I have seen a lot of good in Norwegian care for the elderly. I have met active elderly, competent caregivers and visited beautiful new nursing homes and nursing homes where there is a homely and cosy atmosphere, and everyday life is active and varied. This is what modern care for the elderly is supposed to be. It is that older people are treated as independent people, and that their desires, needs and dignity are cared for – even if you need extra help to master your everyday life. But we know that the quality of care for the elderly varies greatly. In some places, care for the elderly is not good enough, and many people do not feel that they need services at the level they need. That is why we have thought that the State should take greater responsibility for ensuring that the municipalities provide enough and good enough services and legislate the right to the care and care of good luck. In 2014, the Right-Fremskritsparte government strengthened the investment grant for the development of nursing homes and luckily care by allowing the State to take a greater share of the development costs. This has led to a change of pace. Last year, municipalities applied for grants for nearly 2,500 places, and the government's aim is to facilitate the construction of a further 2,500 health homes next year. Next year, we will start work on developing a safety standard in nursing homes. This should be a tool to assist municipalities in ensuring and monitoring quality. The aim is to contribute to real improvement, better recruitment, good professional environment and safety for patients and relatives. In 2016, we also provide an increased daily and activity offer to people with dementia. We propose funds for 1,200 more day-time activities for residents with dementia. We also need to ensure that the care of the elderly has both warm hands and – not least – wise heads. That is why we are committed to strengthening the skills of employees. The government also proposes 700 million. DKK over three years to test new state-funded care for the elderly. In 2016, 20 municipalities will be given the opportunity to participate in the State funding experiment. The aim is to see whether state funding will contribute to increased quality, more equivalent services across the country, and to better address needs. The country's pensioners have been treated unfairly for too long. Married and cohabiting pensioners today cut off their pension by 15 pst. It seems unreasonable that pensioners lose their pension to be married. Now we're reducing the abbreviation with effect from 1 September next year. Then married and cohabiting pensioners get an average increase of their pension of NOK 8 000. A good society is also about taking care of the environment and climate. The government is stepping up the green shift through reduced charges for shipping and support for climate and environmental technologies. We also propose significant capital contributions to the Climate Fund. We have already promised to increase the fund in addition to that resulting from the climate agreement. We are now proposing to increase the appropriation by another 5 billion. kr. After that, the fund will be 67.8 billion. kr, which is 17.8 billion. kr more than the ambition of the climate agreement. Environmental policy is not primarily about budget lines with a green label – it is about effective measures that deliver climate emissions and pollution and that help households and businesses to make environmentally friendly choices. The government has set down a green tax commission. The Commission shall assess whether and how a green tax conversion can contribute to lower greenhouse gas emissions, a better environment and good economic development. The Commission shall submit its advice in December. We want to invest in environmentally friendly infrastructure. The transport sector shall take into account the climate and the environment. We keep investing massively in the railways. And we want to facilitate better collective provision. We also propose increased appropriations for measures for walking and cycling. That is also a good climate policy. In 2016, we propose that the scheme of grants for investment in private dwellings be linked to the tax system. Household owners should therefore be able to choose to receive the benefit as a tax deduction in tax settlement as an alternative to direct aid from Enova. There is no doubt that climate change affects us. But the climate challenge is global and best solved globally. It's important how we can prevent it. Norway contributes significantly to international climate action. We're continuing the ambitious climate and forest effort by 3 billion. kr. We also grant 270 million. kr for the purchase of UN-approved climate allowances. The government is also working to ensure that negotiations under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change lead to a climate agreement in line with the 2°C target. As part of such an agreement, Norway will undertake an ambitious emission reduction commitment. We are in dialogue with the EU to conclude a joint fulfilment agreement. The government wants a secure society – young and old, night and day – where we are clear and consistent in the fight against crime. Visible and present police and good preparedness are important for the security of society. We have already created hundreds of new police posts. The goal is to get more policemen out in the streets. The close police reform will be implemented from 1 January 2016. This is the biggest change in Norwegian police since the millennium. At the same time, police staff are increasing and the renewal of the ICT systems of the police is escalating. This will make the police better able to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts, while at the same time increasing the proximity of the police and ensuring more visible police where people live. At the same time, when the police are provided with increased resources and become more effective, their capacity for settlement must be sufficient. For too long, the criminal justice chain has been down-prioritised, and the settlement queues have increased. In September, Norway was used in prisons in the Netherlands. The prison has 242 seats. It is an important step towards removing the pay queue, and renting out prisons in the Netherlands continues until next year. At the same time, we will establish 181 places at the Eidsberg prisons and at Ullersmo. The government strengthens the preparedness sector to help the country to be better equipped to deal with future crises. In 2016, we are committed to increasing the capacity of the population's social security work, and we are launching the pre-projecting of a centre for national response capacities. The heightened threat to Norway and our allies requires more of the police security service. The government is proposing a total of 145 million. SEK to, among others additional police security service premises. These are challenging times in the world. The war in Syria is marked by brutal behaviour on several sides of the conflict. The conflict has created one of the greatest refugee crises of our time. It is a major and fundamental challenge that politicians must take seriously. According to the United Nations, over 4 million Syrians have fled the country since the summer of 2012. Most of these are in the neighbourhoods. International society needs to increase efforts for refugees and civilians in need in Syria and neighbouring countries. The government will step up humanitarian aid and emergency aid efforts. The proposed 2016 humanitarian budget of more than 4.3 billion. kr is exceptional in Norwegian history, with an increase of 1 billion. kr, or close to 30 pst. One and a half billion. kr will be earmarked for Syria, Iraq and neighbouring countries. This is where the Norwegian effort can help most. Norway is with it one of the greatest humanitarian donors. Norway has always faced humanitarian disasters. But we have to get more countries to give us more. That is why we have taken the initiative of a donor country conference to put in place more international support. Food, medicine, clean water and shelter are needed quickly. In the last few months, we've seen that a lot of people move on from the neighbourhoods. A well-functioning foreign administration is becoming even more important now as Norway, like the rest of Europe, is experiencing increased influxes of refugees and asylum seekers. Therefore, the government proposes to increase the capacity of the Foreign Affairs Directorate. In a situation of increased asylum arrivals, it is important that the Norwegian authorities clarify the identity and history of those who come to the country at the earliest opportunity, including: to prevent illegal immigration and to combat cross-border crime. At the same time, the return work must continue. Persons without legal residence in Norway shall leave the country quickly. There is great uncertainty about the development we are in and how many asylum seekers will come to Norway. The influx of asylum seekers has increased significantly since August this year and has been greater than that foreseen in the 2016 State budget. The Government will provide an additional number to the budget, based on updated estimates of asylum arrivals. The task of receiving, settling and integrating will be a challenge for the foreign administration, and municipalities must do the task of integrating those who come to the country. Norway shall take its part in the responsibility. But we're a small country and we can't handle tasks we can't handle. Already there are cows in the asylum system. Thousands of flights are still waiting to be settled in a Norwegian municipality. Over time, it is essential for those who are allowed to stay to have a home, learn Norwegian and gain access to the labour market. Norwegian companies meet tougher times. This has been noticed by many individuals: some have lost their job, others have felt insecure about it. And some jobseekers have not got a job. In the last year, the fall in the oil price has made the need for conversion faster than we could hope. So today, the government is promoting a proposal for a government budget with a clear objective: we give priority to creating the strong framework that enables jobs to be created, that people have a job to go to, and we solve challenges that most people face in everyday life. We're betting on what gives people security and a simpler everyday life. We're cutting the waiting times in the health care system. We're expanding care with new places, while raising quality. We're raising the stakes for addicted and poor children. We are strengthening the local economy. We secure Norway through more policemen in the streets and new prisons. We are transforming and reforming. This is absolutely necessary in order to ensure the welfare of tomorrow. We strengthen and further develop Norwegian society by investing in our most important resource: the people who live in the country. This is how we build the welfare of the future, based on a strong and competitive business, and a country with opportunities for everyone – not by fear of reform, not by putting a bond on freedom and business, not by taxing people and businesses more. On the contrary. A safe and good society is created with reforms that equip us for the future, by encouraging change, activity and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e324	The President will now propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one entry from each group with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representatives of the opposition parties are given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up in up to 3 minutes to the end. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e331	We are in a challenging situation for the Norwegian economy. There are over 120 000 unemployed, and the unemployment rate is the highest in 22 years. During the winter, spring and summer, we have witnessed a passive and elusive government. The measures have been few, and those that work have come too late. The Workers' Party has been critical of this. The budget presented today must be seen as a partial concession. After the Minister of Finance said that youth unemployment is not a problem throughout the summer, it is good to see that the government finally recognizes this challenge and comes with some measures. The government is delivering a good research budget. That's good. It follows mainly the national transport plan. It's also good, and the Workers' Party will stand behind. The government spends a lot of money in this budget. Then it is alarming to see that in some areas it delivers weakly. The newly elected local politicians of the country will have a demanding start. Despite the record high use of oil money, we do not get a municipal scheme that enables local politicians to deliver well in school, in kindergarten, in care for the elderly, in the nearby welfare. I also think it is alarming that the government is unable to deliver on its own hospital lifts from the election campaign, but still lies above 1 billion. At the rear. Follow-up to police reform is also surprisingly weak. Then we're on our way to a crucial climate summit in Paris. Over the next few years, emissions in Norway will be cut dramatically. Nothing of what the finance minister said, and nothing in the budget, suggests that the government has taken it properly. The tax and tax arrangements are not used. A two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr in railway investments are significant. We also see that, despite professional advice, objections and warnings, the government continues with its ideologically motivated cuts in wealth taxes. The government's tax code comes first and foremost to their benefit. People with normal income get less than a hundred copies a month. What we heard from the Right and the Advance Party in the big election struggle, and from the voters who were persuaded by election commitments about quality in school and care for the elderly, is probably a faint comfort that the promise to remove the wealth tax will be paid for the budget. Finally, we now see that the tax reform is coming. We have noticed that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance express the desire for a broad settlement in the Grand Duchy. It will certainly be a demanding job, but I will report that there is a work that the Workers' Party is prepared to go constructively into.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e348	I would like to thank Marianne Marthinen for the preliminary comments on the 2016 state budget. But I did not hear so much new about what the Workers' Party has repeated, repeated and repeated throughout the summer and autumn, despite the fact that the government has delivered clear and clear information to the business community about the transition challenges we have been working with. We have also put forward a targeted, concrete, well-adapted package of measures that tackles the regions and areas where the challenges are greatest. Then the Labour Party repeats the claim that the Minister of Finance has been talking all summer about youth unemployment being no problem. That's wrong. What I've allowed myself to clarify is that the AKUs tell us that two thirds of youth unemployment is about young people in education who want additional education. That said, we're going to take youth unemployment seriously, because young people are extremely vulnerable in such a situation. This is why the government has presented a separate Youth Action Package to address the challenge they face in a vulnerable phase of life. Then I am pleased that the Workers' Party is signaling the willingness to participate in the work of a broad settlement on tax reform. It's important. I hope that we see constructive negotiations in the Great Britain that give us a good reform that will bring growth, activity and innovation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e357	I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Finance is now saying that youth unemployment is to be taken seriously. Then it is that a government will later be judged on how the rusted country faced future challenges, whether it left to the next generation a better Norway than the country it took over. What worries me a little bit is that when the Minister of Finance talks, it sounds like the more oil money we spend, the more we've equipped ourselves for the future. There is a fatal error. In this budget, revenue is going down, expenditure is going up, and record oil billions are being used. So far, the government has collected as much money from the oil fund in three years as the red-green did in eight years, and then we include the financial crisis year 2009. We need to raise our eyes a little bit. So the government is weakening the generation accounts year by year. Once we have called for measures to meet the increasing unemployment, our criticism has never been about the government spending too little money. It's been about how the government spends the money. The Minister of Finance now said that a lower level of taxation is the main measure to promote conversion, value creation and jobs. We disagree. Even with record oil spending, unemployment will increase next year. I believe that it shows that the room for action so far in the period has been used incorrectly. Billions have gone to tax cuts that don't work. The use of money has been high ever since the government joined. We could have had a bigger room of action now, and we could have spent the money far more focused than the government puts up in this budget. Then we talk about places of study, about a stronger focus on technology development and on actions targeted at the enterprises and people who are about to undergo a demanding transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e370	Employment and value creation in Norwegian business are the bottom line of our welfare society, and now we are in a different and demanding and possible permanent situation with halved oil prices and slowdowns in the petroleum industry. Therefore, we need to act actively to create improved framework conditions that can provide new and more jobs. We must not now sit and wait for the storm to pass. It's not going to do that. We can't just run fire-fighting and repair operations. We need to put the long-term framework conditions for a lasting increase in growth and value creation. This budget — with the largest investment ever in infrastructure, in industrial research — is essential for the long-term transition. The conversion of the tax system announced in the tax notification, which is partially initiated in this budget, is also a central and long-term pillar of Norwegian value creation. We have to create more, create more jobs, not more taxes. We cannot send the tax bill to Norwegian businesses for the measures we are about to take. Then it's also important to take the short-term measures in the situation we're up against. The short-term action package of 4 billion. kr will work quickly and will not result in a sustained increase in public expenditure. The measures against the shipbuilding and supply industries are accurate, industry-wide and geographical. The multi-site, business-in-house training and business and innovation initiatives will be effective, and not least the youth unemployment action package – previously announced, now in the budget – will be effective in relation to those already available or in the process of becoming available. But then it is that, in addition to ensuring work, activity and conversion, the budget also contributes to strengthening the social security network. Patient treatment is increasing, the budget provides several lucky days of care and 1,200 new day-care places for people with dementia. We increase housing support for low-income families of children, more low-income children are given the opportunity to participate in recreational activities, and not least we continue to work in the field of care and strengthen it. The social security effort shows that it is fully possible to combine welfare efforts with improving business environment. But it is that more people in work will always be at the bottom of our ability to care for those who are not at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e381	Today I am very proud. I am very proud that the Progress Party in the government can provide a budget where the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners increases from 85 to 90 pst. of the basic amount, or approx. $8,000 per pair. It's a significant contribution to correcting the obvious unfairness of the abbreviation that applies to this group, and that's very good. For the Progress Party, it is important to give priority to freedom for individuals under responsibility, security for the inhabitants, modern, safe and efficient infrastructure, a good social safety network and a health service providing good and fast treatment without long queues. These priorities will be taken into account in the budget currently presented. The government demonstrates the power of action to carry out important reforms in order to strengthen the Norwegian society in future and in good development in order to build on its well-being. Lower taxes are an important tool for a simpler everyday life for most people, increased value creation in businesses and lower costs of jobs and investment. The State budget is based on the tax field in key principles of the Progress Party and adapts economic policy to the situation in the Norwegian economy. Now we get a broad tax debate beyond. We are going to carry out an important tax reform, and I hope that the tax debate can be based primarily on the need for value creation and how we can organise the tax system for best value creation and not just unilateral distribution. For what it is all about is really creating a basis for targeting actions over public budgets against those with the greatest needs. Many people in these days claim that they are out talking to the companies, also many in this room, including myself. I still have the benefit of hearing a manager or a business owner who sees the need for increased taxes or worsening framework conditions. Then you can say that no one likes increased taxes – well. But what they're very concerned about, those who are going to be in charge of value creation now, is just getting good, stable and predictable framework conditions that enable them to compete with companies abroad. In my opinion, this budget also responds well to the expectations of the companies in Norway. At the same time, they are engaged in infrastructure, and the investment in the budget for 2016 is a continuation of the large-scale investment that has been getting an efficient and good infrastructure to build the country further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e396	Thank you for an interesting review of a record budget in the number of dollars, and it is worth noting when it comes from the two government parties. For the Christian People's Party, this budgetary procedure will probably consist of three main headings: the fight against increasing unemployment, the ongoing refugee situation and a shift to make our economy greener, so that we can combat climate change. 4 B.C.E. kr puts the government on the table in a package to counteract increased unemployment. I think it is very good in that package, also because it works in the short term. These are ready-to-use projects that can be implemented quickly and thus also have a rapid impact. There's a point for us in the Christian People's Party that we also see this in a longer perspective, so that when times get better, you don't have to spend more time on operating costs, but that these are short-term measures. So we're concerned about what we're doing in the long term. There, the four parties have agreed on very important bets that I am happy to see continue. It applies to infrastructure, to research and training. Speakers of the last government are talking about too little too late. Yes, in higher education and research, the previous government had a self-declared resting edge, and it continued. With a new government and four parties in common, we've got a completely different bet on this. It's incredibly important for the long-term transformation that we need. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also see the effort we made in the current year's budget for several teachers in primary school, as important. As the Minister of Finance said, too many people are falling away. Then early school effort is incredibly important. In the case of refugees, it is announced that the government will return. We're busy with the device on it. We have a responsibility – that is what we should take – and it should not go beyond those who have a little already. So we're concerned with a social profile. We note the follow-up to efforts to combat child poverty, among others. that housing benefits go up. Efforts to ensure that everyone can participate in society are also very important in the budget on which we are now going to work together. I hope the finance minister and her fighters in the government parties are fit for fight, at least a friendly fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e413	There's something special about friendship struggles. They can often be quite tough, but they usually end well. I would like to thank Hans Olav Syversen for his approach to the State budget. I think it is important to stress what the Sevens themselves said, namely to distinguish between the short-term challenges and the long-term challenges that the government is trying to address through this budget. The action package is designed to meet the short-term challenges. There are non-performing instruments that can be implemented quickly, while the long-term migration challenges are significantly greater and will take longer to realise. It is precisely in the context of the debate on tax reform that will become important. The starting point for Storting's negotiations on this budget, as I heard from Hans Olav Syversen, can be good. I have great respect and understanding that there will be areas that the Christian People's Party wants to strengthen. That is why I am sure it will be tough, but good negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e422	It's the way with friendship fights that a bullet can go hot there too, at least if it's in the corporate world, I've heard. On tax, I have to say this: we are ready to negotiate a tax reform, of course. As for the proposals for next year, I can inform the Christian People's Party that we will go through both the scheme and the scope of the proposed tax and tax changes – I don't think that comes as a surprise – and look at how they affect the overall budget, not least the distribution effect. I am also pleased – I would say – with the Workers' Party's signal to bring about tax reform. It's important. Another area we're going to spend time on is the overall impact on the situation in the districts. We see that there is a commitment to transport, but we also see that there is a cut in regional development funds. I think we need a round about that. Then I have noticed that the Minister of Finance is so happy with the municipal tax returns that she will once again turn them into her own and get them over to her hand. It is interesting that a finance minister from the Progress Party will, but we will take that with us. I think there will also be a need for some rounds. I am prepared for negotiations by the Christian People's Party. They'll be constructive, I hope. They will probably be tough too, but we are prepared to contribute to a centre-oriented budget that will be for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e438	The first two budgets of the Right-wing Party government led to three things: firstly, centralisation, secondly, a massive tax relief to the rich and, thirdly, a massive electoral flight from the Progress Party. So at least that led to one good thing. Then the budget would be balanced. We have heard through the leaks that now we were going to get a balancing budget, so I was very interested in what was in the tables. Well, now they're going to have over 2 million. kr in income get a tax tightening of NOK 200. It was the equalizing effect. They have received a tax relief of NOK 60,000 so far in the period, now they take back 200 of them. We in the Center Party believe it is a good principle that those who have the strongest back should carry the largest stock. But amazingly, with so much money in the budget, what is it then 'the party for the most people' spending? Well, a huge tax boost for the country's commuters, almost half a billion dollars. I can understand that the government councils of the Progress Party, who drive a black car every day, are not so concerned about the commuting deduction, but I am absolutely sure that many of the voters of the Progress Party who have to travel far to work think it is amazing that they should get less deductions and more costs, and that at a time when more people have to be willing to go further – when more people become unemployed. It's incomprehensible that the government then cuts as massively in the commuter deduction as they actually do. Then, as the representative Hans Olav Syversen was in, it is completely incomprehensible to cut into the means to go to people with new ideas and better solutions – regional development funds – in a situation of increasing unemployment. With this, the cut is almost up to 1 billion. kr. That's 750 million. kr during the years in which the government has ruled. There's money going to create new jobs, and it's wrong to cut there. So what do you do in agriculture? Yes, there is tax relief when Jens Ulltveit-Moe and others want to buy up agricultural property. Investors receive tax credits, while family-run agriculture receives tax incentives. What is the point of that – punishing those who have been in an industry over a long period of time, but motivating the strong participations that want to buy up more land? There's a completely misguided policy. It's not a policy for most people, it's a policy for the rich. We have an industry – tourism – that has started to grow because we have received a lower crown price. Then you increase the VAT on hotels and transport. Why should we give a competitive disadvantage to one of the industries that are now growing? The community complex is too bad, and it's amazing that it's only 50 million. When we heard what the Prime Minister said yesterday, we were engaged in new integration measures. The government can't seriously mean 50 million. kr is enough when one sees the major integration challenges we actually have right now. It is also amazing that they cut support for resource-intensive users. It's not a social budget, it's a budget for centralisation and... [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e457	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e460	I sat last night trying to imagine what the different speakers would say for the different parties. On my note when it came to the Center Party, I wrote that he will certainly continue with the disc he has pulled many times, namely centralization. It's just that there won't be anything more true because it's going to be repeated many times. The truth is, this is a budget that creates optimism, hope and activity across the country. It is a budget that strengthens opportunities in particular in those parts of the country that are now most vulnerable as a result of falling oil price challenges. That is what this package of measures is all about. I have to say that when we are going to discuss tax reform, it is important that the Central Party also looks at the whole of what kind of pillars a future reform should be based on, in a situation where we need to make our tax system more competitive. When we had a tax reform in 1992, we ended up with a rate that then appeared offensive and competitive from an international perspective. Since then, progress has been in the opposite direction. That's why we now have to reduce corporate taxes, make the tax system more robust and more competitive. That's why it's important to look at the whole thing and not every detail. That's how you make a tax reform. It is possible Battle violence Vedum believes that the best answer to gain creativity, founding and innovation in business is through the regional development funds. Well, we believe that the answer lies in a new tax system, in a wide range of measures and instruments that we strengthen through Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e471	When I hear Siv Jensen, I almost don't think she believes what she herself is saying, for what kind of reform is it really like she's warning in this budget paper? Well, it's a reform that almost a total accumulation massively protested against in ours. It is precisely creating a massive centralisation of the tax collection in Norway. One should have a decentralised tax collection in 269 places close to people, while now one should centralize it to 33 places. You can pretend it's not centralization, but of course it's centralization and bureaucracy. At the same time, the government says it should carry out new tasks for municipalities. You say that, but all you do is take away from them problems and centralize problems. We know that the municipal tax collection is more effective than the state, precisely because there may be some small business benefits – that you know local conditions and can get good solutions to collect the money. So there are no decentralised measures in this budget. It is a massive continuation of the centralisation policy that the government wants in almost all areas of society, and it is amazing that the Progress Party, which in the past had little support even outside the major cities, is pursuing such a policy. At least it's not a policy for most people, at least it's not a policy for the peoples who voted the Progress Party into the government offices, and it's amazing that Siv Jensen, as party leader in the Progress Party, is taking it easy for all the commuters of the country now to get as much tax boost as she puts up with. We see a new budget that's adapted to the richest in society, which doesn't contribute to the whole country, and we should spend the resources on it, because there's so much creativity, there's so many opportunities around the country. We also find it a pity not to spend more money on the municipal sector, because the municipal sector is responsible for the care of the elderly. If this budget is adopted, there will be very many demanding cuts around the country's municipalities. It's going to go down on the country's older people, and it's a wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e484	The financial crisis itself in 2008-2009 did not impose as much on the forthcoming state budget as the challenges of the 2016 budget must meet: the climate problem, business transition needs, the refugee disaster, the use of money. For the Left, which is the largest environmental party, the climate problem is the biggest challenge. Climate crisis can and must be resolved. Fortunately, the solution to the climate crisis and measures to meet the business conversion needs are usually two sides of the same coin. Politically, it is a green tax change and a commitment to knowledge of the broadest importance of the tools we have to consult. The government's tax reform proposal is a step in the right direction and does what we want more, cheaper: workplaces, value creation. Some green tax change without the continuation of what the Left contributed to this year's budget is, unfortunately, the disappointing few traces of it. 40 pst. reduction in domestic emissions by 2030 requires much harder lye. Of course, the left – both in our draft state budget and in the budget negotiations – comes to reinforce the green profile of the overall tax and tax package monthly. The two most important impulses for conversion are a low interest rate and the dollar rate, and we have to be careful not to contribute through public money to influence them in the wrong direction. Without becoming too tall and too dark – I am at least high – I would say that the use of oil money is alarmingly expansive and unsustainable in the long term. We in the Left also have a responsibility to take action as soon as possible to secure well-being in the future without the need to increase the use of oil money sharply year by year. The digitisation measures and changes in purchasing processes proposed by the government are very good and can lead to large savings in the short term. If we are to have the full effect of such measures, we must also bring with us the municipal sector. The community reform is a factor that needs to be taken advantage of, and it says that a job should be done for the benefit of the community. Nor do we avoid a systematic review, with the aim of cutting red tape and the form field. Norway now has a government budget of 1,200 billion. kr – more than twice as large as e.g. in good neighbours in Finland. It's clear that here's room for freeing resources. Basic questions have to be asked: can we get e.g. a better education of developments leading to more and more centralisation of education, individual schools and teachers? Do I really need a training directorate? In other words, there are enough themes that need to be taken up on the negotiating table here on the house in the next weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e501	I fully agree with Terje Breivik on the need to red tape and streamline the public sector. It is for this reason that the government has launched a wide range of reforms on the effectiveness of resource use and the release of resources for better service production. So I'm glad that the Left is eager to move on with much of that reform work, and I'm absolutely sure that through cooperation we will get to it, with a view to freeing resources for better services and alternative use in the future. But we're not going to be sorry that the government budget is growing. This is, of course, a sign that the economy is also growing. The challenge for Norway is that the economy is growing slightly weaker than we have been used to in recent years. The objective must be to return to a higher level of growth, and therefore we are taking action in both the short and long term to contribute to increased economic growth in Norway. It will be good for us to be able to continue and strengthen important welfare systems that we are committed to ensuring in Norwegian society, to ensure that we have a strong and good social security network and at the same time to ensure that our companies are competitive even in an international perspective. I believe that we are facilitating all of this through the 2016 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e508	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer and for the feedback. Of course, I agree that very much of what is proposed in this budget responds well to the major challenges. We are very happy to record what is happening in the field of extended knowledge: easier access to kindergarten, a good general elementary school, as the Minister of Finance himself highlighted in his main introduction, strengthening the apprenticeship system, professional skills, historical investment in the university and university sectors, research – it is excellent. But everything that is good can of course be done better, and everything that is good must always have a critical look at it to see if a user has the money on the right things. The left is also very pleased with measures in the same street that are now being reinforced, i.e. the whole new scheme to secure risk capital for maybe special start-ups, entrepreneurs, who work in the segment and generate research results, to the store, the preseed fund scheme. That's good. In conclusion – to end in a good tone – I will give the government exclusive credit for following up the poverty fight package, which we together with the government launched earlier this summer, and which is one of the heavy and important initiatives in the cooperation agreement. I also thought it was very nice to see a budgetary leak when the Minister of Finance himself told me that they are now abolishing the customs system of VAT on food that is being given away – great! There is no doubt that the fight against poverty and the specific fight against child poverty must be a priority in these negotiations. The certainty that 80,000 young people grow up in poverty in Norway in 2015 is directly heartbreaking. So there's no doubt that this is an area that we're going to spend a lot of time and resources on also in the negotiations, and that we're going to strengthen our work through this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e521	People notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government. Those who have to live with the government's cut to poor dependants and single-parents will notice well, completely independent of the so-called rescue action of the Left and Christian People's Party for these groups last year. Those who funded the government party election campaign are very well aware that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government. Those who flee from war and distress will mark this budget. In addition to the 3,000 quota refugees from Syria, 120 refugees will come to Norway next year – 120 – as if there will be fewer conflicts in the world because Siv Jensen is the Minister of Finance. Our descendants will mark this state budget. The government takes record money from future generations, without spending enough on future solutions. Those who come after us will notice that the climate was not higher on the agenda today than that the climate targets for 2020 are almost canceled in this state budget. Emissions are increasing until 2020. We're further away from achieving the goals than ever before. The Prime Minister has often said that Norway should strengthen climate action, but I did not think it meant that emissions should be reinforced. In practice, the government has given up Norway’s climate targets and marks the opportunity to cut railway investments, but increases petroleum research and seismics in the Barents Sea. Well, that's what the switchover is called. Future generations will notice that it is less to apply to their time-consuming challenges. Using 9 billion. It is not the way to go to lubricate increased consumption among the highly paid. Economies are in line to tell the government that cuts in property taxes do not provide any more jobs. The government is standing by. It is an attack on the generations that are coming after us, and that will not have the freedom of action that Siv Jensen has to distribute oil money to our time's most resourceful. Instead of spending 22 billion extra pounds of oil on the future, on the municipalities, on work, on the climate, on children and on education, the money is spent on people with over 1 million. kr in salary can buy a little bigger Christmas gifts next year. Most people's taxes are completely insignificant. 2 kroner and 50 cents a day is what Siv Jensen has to do with his own nuclear electors. There's a lot of talk about conversion in the debate here today, but little about what we're going to convert to. From the budget presented today, we shall neither convert to a low-carbon society nor to a society with a fairer distribution. On the contrary, the government is warning of climate resignation, a society with more asphalt and less track, a society where one has to cope more alone, and where generations have to cope more alone. They don't get any help from the government in this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e536	While the financial figures have been kept, I have seen that more people have been out in the media and commented on what they think about the budget. The representative of Serigstad Valen’s comment on this in the media – which he cannot of course say here in the Chamber because it is not a parliamentary expression – is that the government spends money on ‘aunt and fool’, as he has called it. I have to say, I think it is a rather serious approach in a situation where we need to convert the Norwegian economy, where we need to deliver measures in both the short and the long term to respond to the challenges we are now facing, with increased unemployment and an enormous need for conversion for Norwegian business. It is possible that Serigstad Valen believes it is agile and foolish to deliver the largest research budget of the time, or an offensive and powerful commitment to all parts of the knowledge society, or a comprehensive transport package that delivers to the road sector, to the transport sector and to collective solutions. I have to say that I think there's a slightly special way to approach this, in a situation with a rug that requires something from us. That is why we have put forward a budget for work, activity and conversion. That is why we have put forward a budget that is capable of prioritizing the serious economic situation in which the country is now in, while strengthening the social security network for those in our society who have it a little worse than ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e545	There the Minister of Finance said it – if it were those who have it a little worse than ourselves, who had been the important ones to bet on in this state budget, it would have looked quite different. Then the government had not spent billions of dollars on tax cuts instead of equipping us for future challenges. What the Minister of Finance has done is to invite the country to a spice team for what she calls conversion. The districts have to pay through cuts in regional development funds, more centralisation and weaker local economy, school pupils and teachers because the municipalities do not have the same framework as they had before, the contributions of pensioners this year are to be lower in purchasing power – except for the richest pensioners, then, which are the biggest winners in the tax cuts of the Minister of Finance – and future generations are to contribute record oil money. But for what – what are we spending that money on? If it's those people who don't have it as well as us, which is the point, the money would have been used completely differently. You wouldn't have used 9 billion. kr that most people will receive DKK 2.50 a day in tax cuts, while the account of the most wealthy people is filled in by tax cuts that, according to all professional advice, including government's own, do not have any effect on future jobs. For what – for more asphalt and less investment on the railway? That's it? Then the concept of agile and agile lies dangerously close.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e554	It is bad that people now lose their jobs in the oil sector and in other sectors, and it is good that this budget at least shows that it takes on board the need for and the need to create new jobs in new sectors. But this budget shows above all that it obviously had to be an oil price drop in order for this government to start delivering on the promises we have heard so many times in this Chamber, without having been delivered on – something the red-green government should have done too long – namely to start the transition to the society we know we have to enter. But it didn't happen before the oil price fell. The Greens very much welcome a major effort in research in Norway. It's very important and very necessary. We believe it is right to distort taxation in the disfavor of oil and in favour of new industries in other sectors. We think it's good to stimulate companies with less tax on work, so we can get more new and small businesses around the country. Of course, we think it is good with some new environmental measures, which this budget also alerts. Above all, we are pleased that the government is taking on board the need for a much greater commitment to care for the many people in need who are coming to Norway in the years to come, even if we want to discuss how it is financed. However, this budget is strongly influenced by the same disease as the previous budgets, namely the excessive absence of clear and binding links between action and performance in the environmental and climate sectors. For each environmental action and for each climate action, more and more major actions are destroying the effect. Oil bet is still the largest, Sverdrup will provide our descendants 900 million tonnes of extra subsidies for global warming. One pst is cut. in the railway operation, while the road bet is increased by 18 pst. etc. But above all, this budget will, incredibly, increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 – from a government that has promised to strengthen the climate agreement. It must be terrible for the Prime Minister and for the Minister of Finance to provide such a budget for all these promises that they have made. Increasing greenhouse gas emissions – that is what the Minister for Climate Change will bring to Paris. It is the effect of this budget, it is the reality of climate policy for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e568	It is nice that the representative Hansson has found some points of light in this budget, such as research, tax reform and ‘some new environmental measures’, as he called it. But let me just underline the importance of oil and gas-related business in Norway. The government is quite clear that we need to take action to meet the green shift, to convert the Norwegian economy, but we are equally clear on the importance and value of oil and gas-related business for Norway, and will have for Norway in the foreseeable future. That's why it's important that we manage to do more things at the same time. We therefore need to provide good, stable, long-term and predictable framework conditions for an industry that employs many people in this country and which makes great contributions to the Norwegian economy, and at the same time we need to facilitate investment to find exciting new ways of feeding in the future. This is done through a wide range of measures and instruments in this budget, through tax reform, through a wide range of measures and instruments in Innovation Norway and within climate change mechanisms, which will stimulate and free up capital to build up under new and environmentally oriented initiatives in the future. So I think doing more things at once is right and necessary. Because we can't do what I get the impression sometimes when I hear representatives from the Greens, that it's just turning off the light on one of our biggest and most important industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e575	If the Minister of Finance has still managed to hear what the Greens say about the development of the oil industry, such as ‘turning off the light’, then please note that we are now saying that this industry should be phased out systematically and on a planned basis and replaced by another activity over a twenty-year period. It's about as far ahead as we know that today's oil resources are reaching, and that makes a lot of sense. And then, if the dinosaur hasn't been out of the bag before, at least it came out of the bag now. The Minister of Finance responds to the Green Party's criticism of a total collapse in climate policy by saying that oil and gas activities are important. We also know how important the oil and gas business is, but if you've understood anything about the climate problem, you've realized that it's all about reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And if you've understood anything of the point of climate action, of attitude, etc., it's cutting greenhouse gas emissions. So the response to the measures put forward by the government is in a table in the State budget, and it says that emissions will increase. This is the climate policy of the government of Solberg–Jensen, and this is the job of Stortinget, with the Left and Christian People's Party at the head, now has to do something really serious with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e582	Thanks for a good and preliminary – what to say – feedback on the state budget for 2016. I perceive that many of the parties in Stortinget see that this budget is drawing Norway in the right direction. This is a budget that responds to the main challenges facing the Norwegian economy now, through work, activity and transformation, while at the same time being able to maintain a good social profile by strengthening the social security network in our society. It's absolutely necessary that we be able to do more things. We will focus more on securing the lives of individuals in Norway, and we will do so both by ensuring good welfare systems and by ensuring the basis for new growth and value creation in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, it has been important for the government to present a forward-looking tax reform, which ensures that our tax rates are competitive in an international perspective. It's important to our business. This is the basis for each worker in Norway having a job to go to and a secure income, which can help support the family and all the different priorities that each of us does in everyday life. That's exactly why we have to be able to do both. That is why I disagree with those who claim that we should not give priority to growth and value creation, because we should give even more priority to strengthening welfare systems. So there's no contradiction here; it's rather the opposite of both. We have to be able to do both, and I believe that this budget, in sum, is responding to the challenges we are now facing. But let me add that there are still many unresolved problems in Norway. We are building stones, and through this budget, the government has prioritised the most important tasks, which are work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e593	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2016 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-07.ana.ud990e708	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
