ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e35	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e42	We are witnessing today an open-stage war in Europe. The struggles in eastern Ukraine are going on for the most part, with great civil destruction, refugees, material destruction, and deep wounds and contradictions between people who will take generations to heal. Fear and uncertainty spread to new countries and areas. This is a heavy responsibility on Russia. Russia has annexed the territory of another country and has again tried to change borders with military power. Russia is demonstrably present with its military capabilities both directly and indirectly in eastern Ukraine. There are contradictions between Ukraine and Russia, differing views on the direction of cooperation, trade and cooperation in Europe, and none of the parties are completely irresponsible of these contradictions. We perceive that Russian leaders are disgruntled by the fact that the countries around them are choosing participation in both the EU and NATO. We see how Russia strives to transform and modernise the economy, politics and societies after decades of authoritarian command economy. We can look back and think that we could have come further in developing cooperation and integration in Europe with just Russia. But none of this can legitimize the open and disguised use of military power against a neighbouring country. It was precisely these countries in Europe with increasing justice thought they could say belonged to the past. No continent, no group of countries has such a rich toolbox to do what everyone says they all agree on, namely to find a political solution because this conflict does not have a military response. It was right to respond with countermeasures, it is important that there is a broad body behind this reaction, and it is important that Norway participates in saying clearly from among others. Here we stand together in this room. Today, a meeting of the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France has been announced in Minsk. How does the Prime Minister assess this situation and what political initiatives can be taken to find a political solution to this conflict, rather than a military one?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e55	I want to say that I agree with all the considerations that Jonas Gahr Støre now expressed regarding the situation. I think we need to underline a fundamental fact, and that is the right of each country's inhabitants to choose development for their own country, the fundamental democratic right of the inhabitants of a country to decide where and who and in what way they will interact economically and in other ways with other countries. The population of Ukraine has chosen to target Europe, which has obviously been a setback for Russian foreign policy and for Russian interests. Russia is still living with a doctrine of spheres of interest that we had hoped was over, that it was over, after 1989, with the fall of the wall and the developments we had, and that understanding that the basis of each country's choice, the democratic development of each country and the right to choose for itself would be strong for all countries. Political developments in Russia have been dangerous and difficult over a long period of time. They have fallen back to old nationalist rhetoric with spheres of interest. The big challenge for us now is to make sure that we get a development in which the Ukraine situation can be resolved so that it is possible for the people of Ukraine to have an economic development that makes them actually hope for the future. No single action can be taken by Norway nationwide. I believe that one of the most important things we do here is to stand together, both with our partners in NATO and not least with the friends we have who share the same view of development, namely most of the countries that are members of the EU, and to work together around the pressure that the Russians are now going to experience to accept Ukraine's people's own choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e66	Norway is Russia's neighbour, and we have lived in peace for a thousand years. In recent years, there have been strong developments in this neighbourhood. In the past, we have been able to combine solid and consistent NATO solidarity with a pragmatic further development of the neighbouring relationship. This approach has gained broad recognition in Europe. When it has blown cold winds, politically cold winds, in the north, these winds have not arisen here. The cold war had its geopolitical tension, today due to more difficult cooperation conditions the conflict in and about Ukraine. But now, as in the past, Norway should be active, innovative and ready to take initiatives to further develop cooperation in the north. Norway has a self-interest in pursuing an active north-eastern policy, in the north and in the Arctic, and it is also in Europe’s interest. How does the Prime Minister of Norway think that this neighbourhood should be further developed now, in tougher international political times?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e75	A very important guideline for the government's work has been to stress that this is not a conflict to be bilateralised. So there is not going to be a conflict between Norway and Russia, it is a question that is primarily about the influence of the global society on Russia to respect international law and law. This is why we have been concerned that the measures we have taken, and the measures we have taken in some areas of our own, have been targeted, for example. military cooperation. In other areas, we have been concerned that we should continue to have good cooperation with Russia. We have that today-to-day cooperation in the north, and we will continue to be concerned that it will be further developed. It is a challenge to one of the basics, the people-to-people cooperation, that political developments in Russia make it more difficult, because voluntary organisations that are part of programmes that we support will necessarily also have problems with the new laws. Our strategy remains, however, that it should not be a bilateralisation, but that we should have a good relationship and cooperate in the areas of mutual benefit in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e82	It opens for follow-up questions – first from Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e85	I agree with the Prime Minister that this conflict should not be bilateralised, but as Mr Støre was involved, so Norway has its own interest in as much cooperation and dialogue as possible. From dialogue to action, the Prime Minister said when she presented the government's Northern Territory strategy. I hope she believes that the dialogue must continue, because we have a self-interest in more dialogue and action, whether it be in the cooperation between local politicians, in the environment, in people-to-people cooperation, or in search and rescue, research, etc. What will the Prime Minister do to strengthen cooperation and dialogue in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e94	We are constantly working in many fields to develop and strengthen cooperation, but I want to point out that there are some challenges to today's situation. There are some challenges when the principal of the Arctic University of Norway tells me that he will be meeting with his counterpart at the Arctic Frontiers Conference, but that it is a little difficult to meet a university management who has made it possible for gay employees to be laid off – that a Norwegian representative should not be able to point it out, even though it may make cooperation a little more difficult. We have to face these human rights issues every time we meet Russia, and it sometimes creates some challenges in this cooperation. But we're working together on research. We are concerned with cooperation on the tasks that we are going to jointly enforce in the area in the north, for example. in the case of fishing resources. We are committed to stimulating more cooperation where it is natural, but will never compromise on the fact that we address human rights – and we address the situation in Ukraine when there is a need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e101	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e104	I'm glad of what the Prime Minister says. We cannot compromise human rights in our dialogue with Russia – a Russia that is breaking international law in this matter. At the same time, we see that there is no military solution to this conflict. With an Ukraine supported by the EU and the United States and, on the other hand, rebels supported by Russia, there is really no military solution. Angela Merkel, who is now working very hecticly with a diplomatic solution, has also shown that it is important that Western countries do not contribute weapons into the conflict. My question is: does the Prime Minister share Merkel's assessment? And then we already know that Norway and the government have contributed humanitarian aid. Is it now that one is also willing to increase humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e114	When I was in Kiev in November, we signed a cooperation agreement with the government. It provides assistance to internally displaced persons, i.e. programmes for it. It implies that we have been given responsibility for one of the defence reform funds to NATO. We also contribute budgetary assistance to enable the Ukrainian Government to take the reforms that are coming. We have done this with a very clear message that there is also a need for political reform in Ukraine – political reform in the form of a fight against the corruption we have seen, which was devastating for the results of the Orange Revolution in 2004 and until last year. In the case of weapons, Norway has very clear rules relating to weapons. It is not relevant for us to send anything to a country that is in conflict and war. We're also concerned that it's not using weapons to solve this. Policy instruments must be solved, and that is what we are going to focus on in all our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e123	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e126	It is good to say that the Prime Minister is clear that Norway will not contribute arms to an acute conflict, where a close neighbouring country is involved, and where there are significant consequences for Norway for which other countries are joining. President Obama has signaled in an interview in Washington Post that he will assess all possibilities, including sending defensive weapons, if the peace talks fail. As was said in the previous question, Angela Merkel has a different attitude. It expresses scepticism for this, but opens up, together with the rest of the EU, to introduce new sanctions against Russia. How does the Prime Minister assess the balance between sanctions, dialogue and other instruments in response to the crisis in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e135	All the reports we have indicate that the combination of the sanctions that exist and the lower oil price have a significant impact on Russia's economy. What has a significant impact on Russia’s leadership, on the other hand, is another question. It is a leadership that is currently significant nationalistic in its rhetoric, also in relation to the countries around it. But the hope is that the sanctions, with financial pressure, will help ensure that the pressure on leadership also makes you want to find other solutions. It's diplomacy, it's the will for solutions from both sides that are going to be crucial to whether or not this conflict is resolved. At the same time, I understand the frustration of those who now experience that modern Russian equipment is used to bomb their homes and you don't get help to fight – it's a difficult situation. But we have to hold on to one thing, and that is that these are the diplomatic solutions that are the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e140	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e143	I appreciate the Prime Minister's reply. It is important to be critical of and criticise Russia when it violates human rights at home. It is important to stick with our allies both in Europe and in NATO in terms of sanctions, and not let us split that view, but at the same time maintain a dialogue with Russia on what is not affected by the sanctions. At the same time, perhaps the most important thing in the whole conflict is to build up under a strong development of democracy in Ukraine, but also to support under other countries in the Russian border zone, such as Georgia and Moldova, and also to support under Latvia and countries in the Baltic States. Then is my question to the Prime Minister: How will Norway act to support the development of democracy, stability in Russia's peripheral zones, in Ukraine, but also in other countries affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e150	The fact that we provide budgetary support, we provide support for reform, support for civil society in several of these countries in order to help ensure that there is independence and the ability to question the country's leader and disposition is important for building democracy. When we give budget support, we also give it very clear notice that they need to take the political reform that has been lacking. The challenges of lack of transparency in decisions in Ukraine have made the popular legitimacy of different political leaders very small. This has meant that the interests of the nation have not been put into the high-seat, but perhaps more personal gain. There is a development with which Ukraine has to fight and has to be able to implement itself. And that will always be a condition for us when we give money, that we should support it. But our strategy is, among other things, civil society support in these countries, it is supporting independent observers and ensuring that there is publicity about what is anti-democratic ways of driving a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e157	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e160	Norway and Russia are not only neighbouring countries, but also neighbouring countries, and contact across borders has been important in keeping channels open, even when a demanding political situation has prevailed. Cooperation with Russia has produced clear results. We have a common resource management in our neighbourhoods, and we have had a long process with the sharing line agreement. But the very pulse of the Barents heart, it's the people-to-people cooperation. Then I think it's intended to see that the government has turned its hand on a friendly Russian initiative to lift a flight from World War II to give common war heroes a grave and a monument over the 70th anniversary of our freedom and our liberators. I wonder if it might be relevant to take a civil initiative to meet the Russian initiative, and I wonder how the government will strengthen the people-to-people cooperation in the cool climate we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e169	The biggest challenge against people-to-people cooperation is what I mentioned in a previous response, the development of civil society law in Russia. It makes it more difficult for some organisations to have partners, and it is because of the laws passed by Russia that if you enter into a cooperation where there is money from abroad, you have to register as agents for a foreign country. That's what the few people would want to do. We've seen that with environmental organisations, and we've seen it with many other organisations. We're willing to give more money to that kind of cooperation. A lot is in our own interest, for example. in the field of the environment. There is a lot that is important in terms of culture and exchange and other, but we also have to question it. On the question of saying no to military upliftment and participation on the Norwegian coast, there are many good reasons why it is not. They I prefer to give answers elsewhere than here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e178	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e182	I believe the Prime Minister has understood the Christian People's Party's commitment to the vulnerable children. This week, the State Attorney's report came on the police handling of Monika Saka in Hordaland. The National Attorney's review reveals a great lack of the Hordaland Police's competence and investigative guidance. The lack of police management has led to very serious violations of child legal certainty. In VG Monday, Ivar Fahsing says that this is not unique to the police in Hordaland, but that this is something that could happen anywhere. It's very serious. Unfortunately, things are not unique. In recent years, we have seen several examples of violence against children, where the police's lack of care has had serious consequences. Christoffer-saka is another terrible example that we all think about. The Barneombode reports concerns about the police's ability to handle issues of violence and child abuse. The Christian People's Party has taken the initiative that the Storting should work widely and thoroughly with power against children this spring. I think the fight requires a holistic effort on permanent measures and interdisciplinary, heavy efforts from the health, family and justice sectors. We therefore have a proposal that includes: calls on the government to submit a mandatory and holistic escalation plan based on the model of the escalation plan for mental health, with a long-term commitment to enhanced organisation and ear-marked resources. My question to the Prime Minister is, Will she take a leadership responsibility precisely in this important work we are doing in the fight against violence against children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e195	I would like to take a lead in the work against violence against children. I believe that, as a government, we also take this responsibility seriously. The four parties behind the formation of this government, just a year ago, marked that violence against children and women, violence in close relations, was a significant and important investment for us. The government has also followed up. On 20 November, we promoted an action plan containing 43 measures to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. I believe that the fundamental thing we must build on is that children should not be subjected to violence, that violence, abuse and abuse should not be expounded – that is often done. We must take violence against children more seriously in our society, and everyone has a responsibility to report suspicions. I mean, although it's going to be perceived as a little mistrust of families, that the starting point must be that those who work with children have to believe that the worst can happen to children where they're also going to be safest. It's often we don't think it can happen, and then you ignore the indications that it actually happens. That is also why we have set out quite a number of measures. An expert group shall be set up to analyse the public failure of the most serious cases. I think the Monika thing is going to be an important part of it. What makes you not follow up? We have established a grant scheme for actions for children exposed to violence through non-governmental organisations. We're working on empowerment for the statesmen. We are working on strengthening family protection, which in our agreement at Stortinget was further strengthened. The capacity of children's homes will be strengthened in 2015. The list of measures is quite long. And we are open to new measures, because this is about the basic quality of our society – how we take care of those who are weaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e204	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the work that the government has seen going on. This weekend there was a very strong report in the Evening Post that followed three forensic physicians at work – three forensic physicians, all of whom are working with and researching child deaths. As Torleiv Rognum said in that report: ‘Every year, on average, five children under the age of four die as a result of the actions of their parents. There are typically two clear killings, one abuse case and two deaths of care failure.» It shows some seriousness when it comes to making a change and improvement in this area. Now we know that the government is working on a police reform. How will the government in the context of the police reform ensure that the police are actually where people are, in order to ensure the prevention of violence against children, and what will the Prime Minister do to ensure that the legal certainty of children is better than what we see today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e216	I think it is quite natural that, with a police reform, we should ensure that we have a better and stronger neighbourhood police force, which has time and capacity for prevention work. This does not necessarily mean that you are present with offices everywhere, but that you are present everywhere with people, with people following up on the prevention work. The second thing that these cases show, as it is absolutely important, is that the competence of those who are investigating needs to be increased. Competence and knowledge need to be raised, and the main purpose of police reform is to strengthen professional environments, which means that research can be more specialised and that the environments to work with children and offenders have more competence. If you remember in the fall when it came to murder – there's nothing different in this area. The experienced police specialists said that you must have worked a lot with these things to see the signs and interpret them, and we must actually have a police department that can also... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e223	The number is out. Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e226	Meeting a young person who has been mistreated gives the impression that you never forget – of being small and experiencing things that people shouldn't have done to you, and yelling that someone should see. Norwegian kids meet many adults throughout their lives. They meet adults at the health centre, in dental care, in school health services, in sports laws and organisations, a large proportion go to kindergarten, and school everyone goes to. If we are to fight violence against children, the competence must be out there, so that the adults they meet see. What measures does the Prime Minister think should be taken so that we can prevent and see the young people who have so many meeting points when we, as adults, do not see them anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e233	I fully agree that meeting children who have been subjected to abuse is heartbreaking – it is bad. The most difficult thing in these matters is the love and loyalty that these children feel for their superiors – if they are parents, close siblings or others, you get into an incredibly difficult loyalty relationship that makes you often try to hide it. It means that reviewing and having knowledge of signals, what symptoms you see, is something I think all teachers and others should be involved in the work they do. But I think the most important thing we do is that it's like, among other things. are in the follow-up work of this action plan, that several professional groups are to enter school and contribute to a team of teachers that, when suspected, will be able to follow up the case with others with more depression and more knowledge. That's why we're betting on more health sisters, we're focusing on more psychological help out in the municipalities, and we're betting on what's going to make work to help get bigger. For a teacher with a child he thinks is exposed to something, there will always be fear if there is no support device that can help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e238	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e241	I want to start by commending the Christian People's Party for raising important issues and for the initiatives currently being discussed in the Justice Committee, to which the Labour Party is very positive. I would first like to say that violence against children is a serious social problem, but it is also a serious crime. In light of this, the NRK and our country have had some issues in the last few days that have been related to the selection of the mission – among others. has been pointed out to a newly-started trust society that had encouraged the prying of children in the name of religion, and in another case the pope had said that it was something beautiful to hear about a father who has tricked his child. Whether a person mentions it as clumsy, disciplined, or given, this is a power against children, and it is illegal in Norway. But what can we do about it when it actually happens anyway? My question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Prime Minister do to help open a closed environment that foresaw or legitimizes the choice of children by claiming that it is part of their culture or religion, and what will the government do to prevent and detect this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e250	There is no religion or culture that transcends Norwegian laws on the prohibition of beating children. It's simple. It must also be communicated. No groups in Norway are allowed to beat their children or beat the children of others without criminal prosecution. So when we look at the statistics we have over this, it's clear that in minority environments it's a different educational culture -- maybe you haven't taken our teaching culture into account. This means that we need to be much clearer in conveying this – and the dangers know it. Learning customs, laws and regulations in Norway is one of the mandatory courses in Norwegian and social subjects for people coming to Norway. I think it's incredibly important to take this element into account, and that we work with all organisations and with those who work with families in minority environments, and make clear about it, including those who want to justify it for religious reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e257	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e261	Terrorism can take place in many arenas, and many kids experience everyday terror at home or in acquaintances. We politicians have so much power, but can feel powerless when we hear about power and abuse of defenceless young people. Christoffer-saka a few years ago and Monika-saka from the media picture now reminds us of what is one of the most important things we do as politicians; it is to facilitate that various actors prevent the choice of young people well, and that we facilitate the police both to discover the choice of young people and to investigate it well enough to ensure that fewer young people are plagued and more convicted. We in the Central Party are busy with the local police and will divide the police for the better without letting go of the forces at the local police – but we stand up as opposing forces at a time when most things are about making things bigger. Now there is a large-scale centralisation in the police. Does the Prime Minister think that what has emerged in Monika-saka underpins the need for such a centralisation to ensure a better police force and more successful investigation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e270	I believe that what emerges from the Monika case shows that we need larger disciplines, with greater knowledge and competence – especially in these kinds of cases. It's about having researchers who have worked more on these issues and their characteristics, it's about competence and knowledge, but it's also about large and enough professional environments. The reason why we're going to have a police reform is to lift professional competence, especially in investigating the difficult issues, and these are difficult issues. It is true that economic crime and terror are difficult issues, but these are difficult issues, because you have to have good competence and good knowledge to get into what seems to be an externally functioning family environment – which turns out not to have been. Then you actually have to know how to handle it, and how to investigate it in a good way. I believe that there is no distinction between having a police present and being good at prevention. That is why we believe that we should promote a close police reform, but – with it – that we also have more police districts, which have more professional competence, so that they actually get more quality in the investigation work that is being done – for reasons such as: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e277	The number is out. Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e282	First of all, I would like to say that it is gratifying to hear that the Prime Minister will strengthen his efforts towards Christian environments on the Jären and in Norwegian churches to ensure that everyone is included and has an understanding of the Norwegian Law, which is to protect children. Children need safe adults, but also systems that work when the environment fails. That's why the children's houses are very central and something we're proud to have been involved in building up. But we also hear about a waiting time of up to 200 days in children's homes in some regions. It's a long time to wait - it's too long. Children do not need a government that only makes plans, but a government that is able to act according to the interests of children. I wonder when the Prime Minister thinks that the children's right to trial can finally be met within 14 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e289	There are two important things about the children's houses. One is to increase the capacity so that the waiting time drops. We have begun to do so in the 2015 budget. The second is to carry out the work relating to the discussion on the compulsory use of children’s housing and who will be responsible for the hearings. This is going to be a legislative proposition during 2015. It also helps to reduce the waiting time – by making it clear that the competence is good in children’s homes and that this matter is decided. But it's true that we need to strengthen the children's houses, and we have done so in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e294	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e297	One of the amazing things about Norway is that we have housing, economic activity and foreign people's lives from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. It's a success story we've produced in our country. Yesterday the report of the Rattsø Committee came, and the government got what they wanted: a recipe for centralisation. Just as the government itself has problematized, many of our local hospitals are not productive enough, according to the Rattsø Committee. This is completely in line with what Bent Höie has said, that up to half of the country's emergency preparedness is going to lose the surgery. We've heard about the police reform before, it's going to be problematic. The higher education and university sectors are not good enough; they need to be centralised — perhaps towards halving the number of higher education institutions. And in the municipal sector, there was a very clear speech from Jørn Rattsø yesterday, because if you want to get what you want, merge municipalities, we have to be willing to use coercion. If you're going to get villagers, you have to be willing to show political brutality. Is Prime Minister Erna Solberg willing to distance ourselves from the fact that we should use political brutality to get fewer municipalities and more municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e306	I'm a mild and gentle soul, so I think we're not using brutality, but we can use the power of conviction. What the Productivity Commission shows is that on the path we're now going as a society, where we're no longer going to get our growth impulses so strongly from the oil and gas business, but where we're going to have a new and different business life, we can't be in the middle of the tree in all areas. Then we actually have to be smarter in many areas. We have to build a new business, and we have to think more critically about how we spend our money. I think the most important thing about the Productivity Commission is the analysis they have of what is needed to improve productivity. It is important that we think through the way we carry out our transport projects – what helps them become unnecessarily expensive and take too long. Some of us have argued that we should do something about it, that it should not take so long, and that it should not be unnecessarily expensive due to delays. We are doing a good job of lifting the implementation in this area. What we also see is that if we are to create a new business, we must ensure that the innovation power in Norway is increased and that the relationship between our research effort and industrial development is improved. There is also something that this government has been working on when we have both helped to increase the resources that go into nutrient research and to increase research overall because we are going to build a future business. What I hope we don't end up with is to close your eyes to the challenges that Norway is facing. That means we have to think through what policies we have in different areas. I think that some costs we take because it's important district policy. We're doing something because it's important values for our society. But we don't have to close our eyes because any of the choices we make have a cost. It's important to remember that the growth in productivity represents 80 pst. of the increase in value added in Norway since the 1980s. If we say productivity isn't important, that's actually what's the basis for funding our society, we say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e317	I notice that the Prime Minister is not interested in addressing the specific proposals in the Rattsø Committee's report and also uses the rhetoric of the big words. No one is against having an effective and good society, but some of us believe that we should have increased productivity across the country, that we should build good environments, not just around Oslo, around Bergen and around Trondheim, but that it is also a great advantage to build further in Finnmark, Nordland and Troms – around the diverse country we actually have. And if we're to build the country, it must not only be colleges, it must not only be hospitals, you must also be able to have cultural development where it is not most productive today, but where we want to build on. Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg see that the sum of proposals for both transport, colleges, hospitals, agriculture and fisheries will be a massive centralisation, and is there a development supported by Erna Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e326	We have asked the Productivity Commission to show what the challenges of productivity development are in the future. Of course, the political choices should always be up to us. But we have to make them out of information, we have to do them with open eyes. We must not just go back to the rhetoric and say that we find it unpleasant that some people ask questions about whether there is today a greater priority for welfare, less political conflict issues, but make sure that our children are less well-being in the future, that there are fewer opportunities to maintain regional policy and other things in the future, because these are the choices we are facing. Then, as politicians, we're going to pick each area. I think we have a lot of good value creation environments in District Norway. Some of the most valuable environments we have in Norway are located outside the big cities. I do not read the report of the Productivity Commission as a one-sided centralisation, but I do not read it as a recipe where we will follow each of the reasoning. What we need to think more about in the future is that when we spend money, we not only have to think about letting go of unpleasant political discussions today, we also have to think about what society we create for our children. That is what we are putting on the agenda with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e333	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e337	The majority of Stortinget has said that one will have increased Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. The steering committee does not agree with such an assessment and does not see the value of Norwegian food production, but sees it as a cost to society that also entails significant costs in other policy areas. An example is soil protection, which is described as a loss of efficiency for the land use in urban areas. According to the report, producing clean, safe, short-range food in Norway gives us a loss of well-being as a society. Then is my question about the Prime Minister taking away from a description that Norwegian food production and the Norwegian food industry are causing us as a society a welfare loss, or is she in agreement with Rattsø in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e344	I will not say yes or no to every proposal that has come from a public authority. They've done an analysis, they've raised a discussion. This government's starting point is that we're going to increase food production in Norway, but we're also going to do it by having a more efficient agriculture than what we have today. This will contribute to the transition to a less well-being loss of the agricultural production we have in Norway. But it's e.g. a challenge if our environmental objectives and climate objectives — e.g. building closer, the green transition – shall be halted by soil protection around the largest cities. It's a challenge, because we're going to build public transport, we're going to build closer. Then we also have to include it in the planning we have in the future, both for environmental reasons and for the reason that we have to choose where we spend money, so that it does not contribute to less efficiency in the years to come. There are some dilemmas where we can say that we don't agree. But we also have to say that it's a dilemma when you like. to be dense and to achieve climate objectives, and if the history of Barcelona and American cities is to be a reality in Norway as well, then soil protection is one of the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e353	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e356	One of the issues addressed by the Productivity Commission is the power plant sector in Norway. Here we have long traditions in Norway, much thanks to the fact that the Left was a party on the left side of Norway and provided good concession law, right of return and a high proportion of government and other public ownership in the power plant sector in Norway. It questions page 37 of the Productivity Commission in its report and claims that everything can be resolved by taxation. Can the Prime Minister promise Stortinget that she does not want to privatize the public owned power generation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e361	Yes, I can promise. It is on the basis of the Sundvolden platform that we should operate on the basis of the consolidation model. This means that public ownership should remain the general rule and not change in our policies. However, this does not mean that the power sector cannot become more efficient. We have a number of network companies that are small, that operate less efficiently, and a lot of people know that we could get more and better soundness in our network if we had something fewer online companies. There are parts of the power sector in Norway that could become better and more solid and also provide us with better security, for example. When the storms go, if we had lifted it up to slightly larger companies. Fortunately, many of the local public owners have seen this and have therefore contributed over the years to merging smaller companies so that they have become larger.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e366	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e369	Welfare schemes in Norway depend on high employment and productivity in the face of population ageing and oil inflation. So we're talking about conversion. As Karmøy-mann, today is a happy day, because after ESA approval, Hydro invests several billions – the largest land-based investment in Norway in perhaps ten years. It is an example of conversion and continuation, and I am proud of the efforts of the Christian People's Party in that matter. We also believe – in order to return to the Rattsø Committee – that there is a need to invest in school and knowledge, and that planning and good transport are important, but we also believe that urban regions can become more effective. At the same time, we want living districts and active agriculture. But we'll warn you that this is going to be a centralization debate, it's a value debate. Last night, Siv Jensen said that other considerations than the socio-economics have to count in a long-term country. What other values does the Prime Minister think are important to include?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e376	I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has an attitude to this that it is actually a problem, and does not do as the previous speakers seem to have decided, not to address the main challenge – that is, the challenge the Productivity Commission gives us, that in a world that is changing, we actually have to think more about how we use the resources here at home – which will not be taking care of our society for future generations. I think it's a fundamental value. The trustworthiness is something I believe the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have in common, in our background, both in terms of the environment, and in terms of what our children are going to inherit from opportunities for their society. I believe that we should take into account district policy, that people should be able to choose to live in different places. I think we should take into account that we can't just look at efficiency parameters when families make their own choices. It's also such a question. But I think we have to see with open eyes that where we make choices, where we get less effective use, we also have to be honest that it might have a cost, and there are limits to how many such choices a country can make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e383	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e386	We're in a process where we're going to report our climate objectives to the United Nations by 2030. Last week, the Left, Christian People's Party and the Government agreed that we should join the EU's climate framework, with a total EU cut of 40 p.m., which will include Norway's emissions from a 1990 level. We are already part of the quota sector, but in the non-quota sector, the EU will make its distribution between countries, and their commitments, during 2016. It is expected, based on the wealth and GDP that Norway has, that we will have a commitment, a claim, of at least 40 pst. Since the consensus was presented, there has been largely a discussion, and so has the Left, on which flexible mechanisms Norway will apply, and on how much we should have cut domestically, despite the fact that within the EU there is a situation in which countries such as Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany have their own climate objectives – including within the EU framework – up to 2030. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: When agreement with the EU is in place, the Prime Minister agrees with the Left that we need to set our own ambitious targets for domestic climate change in different sectors, in order to contribute to the 40 pst Single European Act. towards 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e395	I would like to stress that it is quite clear that the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has presented it, is both an ambitious climate policy and a rather demanding climate policy for Norway as a nation. Because that's not how we're going to get easily away from these requirements, by cutting elsewhere. There will be significant cuts, not least in the non-quota sector, how large the cuts are going to be, and where we will also negotiate in 2016 an agreement on how much of the total EU cut will take, which Norway has to cover. There are two important things I want to underline. One is that in 2015 the new regulatory framework relating to the ETS, i.e. the quota system, is to be negotiated. The fact that we are within this, I think, gives us a stronger voice, that we can do what has been Norwegian policy for a long time, that this quota system needs to be tightened even more in the future. But there are some choices to make, and that would mean getting less emissions in a tighter quota system. The second is 2016 and the negotiations we are going to have. When we have a negotiated outcome, we in Norway have to put in place a strategy to follow up that outcome, that is, how we should do it, and then it is quite natural that we find out how the objectives are to be achieved for the different sectors. And there's no doubt that this is e.g. would have to mean a very large revolution in transport, because in the non-quota sector in Norway, transport and agriculture are the two main sources of emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e405	I welcome the answer and agree that we must have ambitious goals. There is a lot of policy that needs to be developed in the years to come, and there must be great will over many years. At the same time, what we are now in is a message to the United Nations prior to the negotiations to be held in Paris in November. By joining the EU Climate Change Framework, we ensure that the target we are now reporting will also be achieved. It can be safe for the rest of the world. At the same time, we have to expect demanding negotiations, and in addition to our own cuts, Norway has a strong international commitment to reducing emissions, whether in the case of forestry, renewable energy or the purchase of climate allowances internationally, so-called CDMs. When we have to negotiate, our additional obligations will be added to the 40 pst. as we agree with the EU on cutting. The question then arises: is the Prime Minister, like the Left, willing to commit Norway to climate goals beyond the 40 p.m. We now report, although these cannot be offset against Norwegian cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e414	Let me stress that when we join the EU bubble, as we call it, it means that one cannot use outside allowances for the 40 pst cuts that will happen within the EU system. This means that they must be taken within an EU context, within a national context, with the obligations they have. However, Norway believes that we should have flexible mechanisms in addition to the 40 pst. This means that we want to go to the Paris meeting and say that we should contribute to ensuring that other countries, which are developing countries, can achieve their objectives. Whether there are CDMs or other mechanisms, I think you have to look at the future, both at the Paris meeting and after the Paris meeting, but it cannot enter instead of Norwegian cut – it will be in addition. I think that is a moral obligation, not only in terms of combating greenhouse gas emissions, but in this context it is also important to include poverty reduction and the Millennium Goals. We must lift many billions of people to a better future. Then we must also include development strategies in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e421	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e424	As Rogaland's big representative, I have to say that it was great to wake up to Hydro investing almost 4 billion. kr on Karmøy and that they will invest in environmentally friendly technologies that will help reduce emissions from aluminium production in Norway and internationally. This is a good result of the decisions we have taken on the civil side, on strengthening, among other things. Enova. At the same time, it also shows the need to have instruments in addition to the allowance price to trigger completely necessary conversion also in the quota sector. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Left that there is a great need for action in the quota sector too in the years to come, to ensure that the green shift also becomes a reality in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e431	Large parts of the quota sector are the future industries of Norway. We believe that we should have a green transition in the future industries. We believe that when we are going to build a more differentiated Norwegian economy, we have to make sure that much of it comes in green business. That means we have to stimulate more. Therefore, it is to contribute more money to the climate technology system, more to the environmental technology system, more money for research and development in general, greater and better climate for investment for the future, including in new jobs – all of this – to bring about green transitions. We believe that Norway should have a more environmentally sustainable industry in the future, and that means a lot of action. I want to say, of course, that many of the positive actions we are doing, both within and outside what is perceived as environmental and climate issues, are right and important in order to achieve this. We're going to do the same thing. Then I just want to say one thing: I hear that many Rogaland representatives are very pleased today. I think they should share the honor with Sogn and Fjordane. Technology is, after all, developed in the Valley of Årdal by an amazing research environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e438	The President agrees and gives time to that, even if we have a tight schedule. Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e443	Agreeing on climate targets may not be the most demanding political exercise. The work begins when to start talking about measures and how to respond to the already existing climate agreement. But it might seem that after the consensus was presented on Wednesday, there is some disagreement again anyway, not only between the government and the left, to which we hear there are uncertainties associated, but also internally in the Right. The day after the consensus was presented, we were able to read about the State Council, Helgesen, who said that we are taking our climate in Poland. The next day we read that Nikolai Astrup said we should be ambitious in Norway. How will the Prime Minister anchor the measures in Stortinget when the measures are to be implemented, and how does she assess the climate agreement, where we said that we should be carbon neutral in 2050 and provided for an international agreement already in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e448	First of all, I want to say that the politician who hasn't experienced a headline on the front page of a newspaper doesn't agree with what you've said hasn't been a politician for a long time. That's why it's also important to base what is stated in the Vidar Helgesen statement in the paper, which is not saying that we should take everything with quota cuts in Poland. Making policies on the basis of pre-rejected headlines does not seem necessary to me. There are more than enough important things to address. Yes, that's how we agree on the goals. We're not necessarily in port with all the measures. I don't think any party in this room has the overview of all the actions we're going to do in the future. One of the important things is to make sure that we increase technology development both in Norway and in other countries, so that we get less of the technologies we use, whether it's for transport, or whether it's for production, in the years to come. We've reinforced the climate agreement during the period we've been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e455	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e458	Norway has traditionally played a leading role in the climate negotiations that have taken place. The last time we saw this in the Lima negotiations was when the Minister for Climate Change played a decisive role in the leadership. The reason for our unique position has been our neutrality, especially because we have been outside the EU. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: is the Prime Minister concerned that this important role will disappear when we enter into cooperation with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e465	No, I'm not. I believe that we have built it up, among others. because we have a commitment that goes far beyond what we're working with the European Union about. We have it because we have a forest plot, which other countries admire. There are not many times I feel that it is just being highlighted as one of the reasons Norway appears to be so offensive in climate terms. We are still going to have a leading role, I think, not least in how we ensure that developing countries, new economies – when they are going to report targets – are ambitious enough, but also confident that they are not at the expense of their ability and ability to combat poverty problems in their own country. It is a challenge that often slows down these notifications — the fear of not getting a job. This is why, among other things: one of the key areas to discuss against the Paris meeting, in addition to the national objectives, how we interact, and also what international mechanisms to ensure that more countries are able to invest in new technologies and become less dependent on emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e473	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e476	It is a little difficult to understand – after the climate agreement – the proportion of the emission reduction to be made nationally. I also don't know if we've become so much wiser here today in this matter, but there's a fact that there's a great deal of distance between what the Minister for the Environment said, and what the leader of the Left has said in this regard. In a previous answer, the Prime Minister gave the impression that the rest of us did not see the whole of the Rattsø Commission report, but the Prime Minister did. The Steering Sea Commission has also taken on board the climate. On page 318, it says: ‘Measures on domestic emission reductions and sectoral targets should be avoided.’ On the other hand, the leader of the Left has said that we must start by reducing emissions at home before we can buy ourselves internationally. Who is the Prime Minister most in agreement with this question – Ratsø in the Rattsø Commission or the leader of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e486	I believe we must also have emission assessments in Norway – in our own area, in the different sectors. We have to make sure over time that we take our share of these obligations. We all know that the most important thing that could happen to the climate was that we had received an international price of carbon. Such a price would have meant that we had got the most effective emission measures – it would have been controlling for this. We won't. Then we're in non-optimal situations for what would be right economic. But the moral responsibility is that we should also take the cuts here at home, and that's in the deal we make. We are going to negotiate the percentages of non-quota sectors in Norway in 2016 if we get an agreement with the EU. This will mean that, after that, we need clear plans and measures for how to implement the cuts at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e495	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e498	The exchange of replies between the representative Elvesuen and the Prime Minister showed the weakness of the agreement concluded. This spring we should have had a discussion in Stortinget about what our national targets for domestic cuts would have been in 2030, but I see the Prime Minister's answer as actually a very clear explanation that we don't get it. The EU-level objective, including flexible mechanisms, is to count. On the left's website after the climate agreement we could read: ‘We agree that Norway should cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 % in 2030.’ However, the Climate Communication states very clearly that these emission targets depend on Norway’s access to quota trading, ‘in line with EU countries’. Therefore, just to clarify it, I would like to ask a simple yes/no question. Is it the case that the national targets set for Norway in 2030 could also be met by actions in Poland — yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e512	The national targets for the non-quota sector will be set in 2016 as part of the EU-Norway Agreement. Then we will have to take our part in the big EU bubble for 2016. There will be an opportunity to use mechanisms, but also the EU has said that it will be a rather limited scheme. Let me take a counter example: Norway has very few point emissions for which the CCS is up to date, with the exception of Mongstad, for which the previous government has stopped. We have some, but the really big ones are elsewhere. We in Norway still believe that we should have a leading role in CCS. Would it be unnatural, if we invested a lot of money in finding good CCS solutions and trying them out in other countries, that that money shouldn't be spent on what's actually technology promise for everyone else, and is accounted for against some of the bets that we're going to do here at home? I think it's also wise to look at that kind of solutions, but this is going to be very limited, and most of it is going to happen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e519	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e522	The last answer was clear for 2030: Norway does not have an explicit objective for domestic cuts in 2030 with this agreement. But that's what we have for 2020, and my question is about it. Time and again, the Prime Minister has come to Stortinget and said that she will strengthen the climate agreement. We have clear targets for 2020 – we have clear targets for what should be cut domestically, and we agree that emissions by 2020 should not exceed 47 million. tonnes of CO2. National targets are important because they will help us start the climate change needed to develop new industries and new jobs in the future, before others do. The Environment Directorate has presented a number of very concrete proposals that show us how, in the years that remain until 2020, we can reduce our emissions by a significant amount of what is needed to achieve the target. That's why many of us were surprised when we read Today's Business on February 6, because there's an interview with Right Environmental Policy Spokesman, Nikolai Astrup, where, in connection with the fact that he runs fire-fighting around the 2030s, in a funeral, he cancels the 2020 targets for domestic cut in a very eye-catching way. On the objective of the climate agreement on domestic cuts, Nikolai Astrup says: ‘It will not happen’. Instead, the goal is to be achieved through u-national quotas, what the leader of the Left has called ‘fixing’, and which the Prime Minister himself has slaughtered in a very clear way in his national meeting last year. Does the Prime Minister agree with Nikolai Astrup – are the domestic targets now cancelled? Then why isn't the Storting informed about it in a different way than through today's business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e536	The domestic targets have not been cancelled, but we had a little uphill when we took over after the Audun Light Hill participation in the government, by the fact that the measures that the previous government took were not very close to achieving the targets that we had set ourselves for 2020. In addition, the largest single measure, Mongstad, was scraped just after Audun Lyssbakken had managed to rescue his mandate in his own country. It wasn't a good start on this, but we've reinforced the efforts to achieve those goals. We have increased the capital of the Climate Technology Fund, so that we can get more projects like that on Karmøy, and so that more companies can get support for the transition to a green industry. This was a demand made by the four parties that are now behind the government, in negotiations with the red-green government, namely, greater returns, more money. They said no to that. We've done it, and that means there's bigger room to get this done. We are far ahead in terms of railway investment and maintenance, in relation to the national transport plan, so we're doing well on the infrastructure side as well. We contribute more money than in the plans that were left after the red-green government in terms of urban environmental agreements, by giving us extra money to support planning at Fornebubanen, so that we can get moving faster and important collective projects can be undertaken. We have started speeding up the phase-out of oil fires in the public sector. We have provided a kidney-realisation link to CCS – we are invited by the EU to join a CCS project to help keep us alive in that development over a time after stopping it the previous one. We have invested money into the biogas strategy. I could have listed quite a few more measures, not least regarding the changes made in the Stortingen in the autumn between the four batches, to stimulate smaller emissions from the car park. So there's a lot of work to do, but it's hard to achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e545	The Prime Minister is good at blaming others, and we see this systematically both in this case and in others. I would recommend a slightly more humble attitude when you actually have power, and have had it for a while. It is not that there are enough proposals for action to achieve the climate targets by 2020. As the Prime Minister well knows, it is not primarily about, for example: railway policy, which, moreover, is now moving more towards the road and less towards the railway than it did below us. This is about the very specific cut-off proposals. The Prime Minister repeats and repeats that she did not exactly come to the table. Well, SV recently invited guests to the Stortinget, not on the basis of proposals we had made, but on the basis of what the Environment Directorate has presented – 29 entirely concrete proposals for emissions reductions with effect by 2020. The Right Party and the Progressive Party, the Government Parties, voted against 26 of the 29 proposals. When will we get proposals from the government as monks, and why does the government go against almost all of the Environment Directorate's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e552	We have proposed in each budget proposal reinforcements related to what the red-green government said yes to. I understand that the representative Lysbakken feels that it is bad to hear how little ambitious they were, and that we are now implementing many of the proposals that they said no to in the negotiations. I understand that the sense of freedom by not cooperating with the other parties has grown. But it's important to say, we're working in each area, but we're working on a slightly different strategy than banning and shutting down Norwegian jobs. We're working on stimulating the new jobs, we're working on making sure that the new technology comes into place, and we're making sure that we can cope with the distortion of a green transition, rather than a policy of ending and getting more unemployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e558	It opens up two follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e561	It is very clear that the Prime Minister finds it unpleasant to be called for an answer as to whether we should actually be doing climate change in Norway, which is at least equivalent to our share. It is a bit strange to hear that the report of the Environment Directorate and the measures in which it will attack Norwegian jobs. On the contrary, the most forward-looking thing we can do, and also the most productive thing we can do, is to ensure demands in Norway, which means that Norway is not acquitted also on technology and on the development of jobs that are climate-friendly. It's true that there's a challenge in the future. We're going to rock the climate, and people are going to have a job to live off. That is why I ask again: does the Prime Minister think it is a national climate action to isolate houses in Poland?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e568	No, I don't think it's a national climate action to isolate houses in Poland. Isolating houses in Poland can, of course, make it warmer for Poles to live there, and it must be nice, but that's not the goal of our climate policy. The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to have an effective policy that helps us achieve the 2-degree goal, not to whip ourselves as much as we can, not to shut down Norwegian jobs, but to reach the 2-degree target on a global basis. I don't think the purpose is to invest elsewhere. I believe it is important that, in the context of the policy, we lift all the instruments that are needed, that the transition to smaller emissions actually becomes a green transition for Norway, and not a closure period for Norway as a nation. Then it's interesting to see the sum of the answers from the Productivity Commission, from the opposition here and what you're now saying. It's not related. Moving forward must mean that we are actually betting in areas where we can technologically take up new jobs, not that we are cutting down the jobs that exist today as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e573	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e576	We are part of the sad fact that the government has strengthened the climate agreement. There is little help in expressing the fact that the climate agreement has been reinforced – at least in relation to the 2020 targets set, which I understand are still being maintained and not cancelled with the climate target message that was presented on Friday. Therefore, it is interesting for the Storting to find out how the Prime Minister views both the 2020 work and the goals and measures that need to be reinforced until then, as well as the major discussion in the current year, which is the 2030 climate objectives. How will the Prime Minister ensure that she involves the Stortinget and is able to make a broad alliance in the Stortinget? Long-termity and predictability may be key words to succeed in climate policy. So far, the government has shown no willingness to do so, and they deny the reality that they are actually in a large minority in the Great Britain in terms of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e581	Since neither of us has heard the concrete measures that are the Climate Change Policy of the Workers Party, it is a little difficult to know whether we are in a minority or not. So we've shown a majority behind the 2030 climate solutions – which are ambitious, which are strengthening, and which are going to be tough for Norwegian society to implement, because a lot of the cuts have to be taken in Norway. I want to say that we also see some developments that are going to have meaning that we can reach them. The major collective efforts promised by this government will be on the move between 2020 and 2030. That means that emissions around the big cities will be smaller because of it. The environmental technology related to cars, which was reinforced in the autumn budgetary conciliation, will also help reduce road traffic emissions. That is good, because the area where it has grown most in recent years has just been the transport area. The industry in Norway has lower emissions, but the petroleum and transport sectors have increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e591	Last week's hearing in the Control and Constitutional Committee on Asylum Policy highlighted inter alia: The Association of Lawyers that immigration-regulating considerations have become increasingly important in asylum policy since 2010. In recent months’ debate and the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee have confirmed that, during the period of the Blue Government, the so-called targets for the deployment of asylum seekers have weighed more heavily than political agreements to prioritise, among others. consideration of the best interests of the child. Both the Police Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Unit have clearly perceived that the target number of broadcasts as a majority of the number of government parties and the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre has adopted is a clearly more important governing objective in the work than the consideration of the best interests of children. The consequence has therefore become, apparently to the surprise of both the government parties and at least the Left and Christian People's Party, that far more asylum children than expected have been sent out, especially long-term asylum children. So the question is, can the Prime Minister clarify what is now given the greatest importance in the government's further practice in asylum policy, of targets for sending out and taking into account the best and equivalent human interests of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e596	A distinction must be made between issues of posting and decisions to stay. Assessment of the best interests of children is also a question of the relationship with the immigration regulator in terms of decisions to stay. It is quite clear after the two rule changes that have been made in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the part of the government. One is that we have a one-time solution that came into force on 1 July last year. Approximately 60 children have now been accommodated, many with their families, as a consequence of the one-off solution. It's not a general amnesty, but it was a one-off solution that would include families that fill some specific conditions when the children had been here for quite a long time. The second is that we have changed the regulations so that for children who have developed a particularly strong relationship with Norway, it will count against. There's a balanced solution between how long the children have been here, that is, what relationship they have, according to given criteria, and the reasons that may be against staying. This is a rule that now allows children to stay. It has been in force since mid-December. So far, this indicates that more children are allowed to stay. Eight families have been allowed to stay because of the attachment of children after the new paragraph has entered into force. It's in a very short time, so a lot of things haven't been dealt with. This means that this government has a different balance between immigration policy considerations and the situation of children, the relationship that children have: Have they been here for a long time? The approx. 60 people who have so far been accommodated are people who would have been sent out if they had not made the changes and got the one-time solution. There will be more children staying on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e605	I thank you for that answer. It is good that the government warns that it will follow up these political agreements in a more committed way. However, it was relatively striking in the hearing that we had on the matter, to what extent what was presented by the government as clear political signals has neither been understood in the Police Directorate nor in the Police Foreign Unit, nor has been followed up by the government in a way that ensured that these signals were implemented. What will the government do to avoid that in a short time again we will have a situation where it turns out that the Foreign Affairs Unit and the Police Directorate have not taken sufficiently inward these new signals, compared to the heavy and obviously very heavy target for broadcasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e612	The target number of broadcasts has little to do with the stay decision. When the permanent solution is in place, when all the families that are here, who believe they are within it, have searched for it and have been evaluated, there will of course be someone who is not supposed to be here and who is going to be sent out. Once the one-off solution is finished, there will be someone who will not be here, but more will probably have stayed. I have been told that the main reason why one is now waiting for the last cases is that one has to provide an identity clearance – it sometimes takes some time in other countries to get it done. So I mean, the problem we've been up to doesn't arise now because of that. Then, of course, you have to make sure that the information is good, and it's as an important part of the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left in connection with the last regulation that came into force, that we have to evaluate the arrangement after a year. Then the possibility to see if the permanent solution has worked according to the intentions will be there. So it's like a mechanism where we have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e618	It opens up one follow-up question – from Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e621	This is one of the things where it has really had consequences for kids that the government says one thing in the Storting, but does not follow up in practice down the system. Perhaps the worst of this is what has happened to the families that have been coerced, the kids who have been coerced, to Afghanistan. The UN has said for over a year that we should not send these families of children there. The red-green government did not, this government has done so, and it took half a year before the Ministry of Justice replied to a letter from its own establishment saying this was dangerous. And you keep doing that, even on Monday, a family of children was sent out to Afghanistan. It tells me that the government does not go into these matters with the seriousness they deserve. Will the Prime Minister ensure that these returns are now actually stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e626	The change of government has done a lot for children. So that's approx. 60 children who have stayed, with their families, who would not have it with red-green politics. In addition, the permanent scheme will allow more children to stay, which they would not have had the red-green policy that was. I am very aware that this is about children, I am very aware that this is difficult – all areas of asylum policy are difficult. But there's now a balance we always have to look at, between who has protection needs, and who doesn't have it. That SV is morally offended, I think, is special, when we actually contribute to more children's stay, with the cooperation we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left. As for the letter that was mentioned, I replied to it in the previous oral question procedure I was here. Children's families have not been returned to an in-house refugee, in line with what is stated in that letter, because UNE has always had that practice. So before writing an instruction, it's not possible to do that. If the representative has other information, I would like to get it, but that is the information we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e633	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e636	The Norwegian model of society has given us a society of great equality. Not least, in his book «The Chapter of the 21st Century», French economist Thomas Piketty dominated the debate with the visibility of how the differences in world society are increasing. We see that the same thing happens in Norway by facilitating property tax and inheritance tax, precisely what he points to as the reason why the differences increase. At the same time, in its report of 9 December last year, the OECD has demonstrated that greater inequality is not only bad for society, but also for the economy, because it affects the productivity of society. The Norwegian model has also given us a society of high security and adaptability. Contrary to this, the government is now going to change the Working Environment Act, despite warnings from the Labour Inspectorate, the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work and from the Petroleum Authority. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion even asks for an assessment of the gender implications. This occurs at the same time as the industries themselves are concerned with the law on permitting, where the government will not listen to the parties. But we have heard from both the Land Association of Construction and Norwegian Industry that they are much more concerned with the law on permitting than access to temporary employment. And why? Well, they're more concerned with the possibility of keeping permanent employees than getting rid of employees, because it's temporary. Fafo, in his research report NordMod, has shown the context in which the Norwegian model and the Nordic model have worked very well. There is high employment, low unemployment, etc. Then my question to the Prime Minister: Does not the Prime Minister see, when the model has given us world leadership in a good number of areas of society, that by attacking those points, we will end up where the Prime Minister mentioned earlier in the Question Time, in the middle of the tree – instead of being world leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e647	I think it's important to discuss the sources of inequality, the relationship between the labour market and inequality, but I think I'm going to come to a slightly different conclusion than the representative just did. The biggest difference in Norway is out of work. That's what gives you the greatest sense of amnesia, that's what gives you the biggest mental problems, that's what gives you the lowest life expectancy. Yes, the sum of all the indicators of inequality on quality of life is about inside or outside the labour market. When we propose a smooth transition to more temporary employment, it is precisely because some of those who are unable to enter the labour market will have easier access to the labour market, that they will be allowed to convince the employer, even if they have holes in the CV over a long time, that they can actually do the job, that wheelchair users can actually do the job, that those who have a different skin color than the majority in Norway can do the job. Then we believe that we need to take seriously what we see, that these types of groups have more difficulty getting into the labour market than others. This is due, inter alia, to: the employer is not sure that they are good enough in the situation and are able to do the job well enough. Therefore, what we say is that temporary employment is one way in for more people to get a job. There is also international research that suggests good results, by allowing temporary jobs to be a springboard for groups to enter. This I believe is the source of the greatest inequality next to the school systems. That's why we're concerned with combating inequality maybe in a different way than just by keeping the systems as they are, but admit that the sources of inequality we have in Norwegian society are that many who would be at work are not coming in, and that our education system is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e658	Let me grab hold of what the Prime Minister said about temporary employment giving temporary jobs. Yes, that's right within today's work environment law, because it provides clear frameworks around the temporaryity. But two weeks ago, I had a meeting with the Swedish Minister of Labour, who very strongly warns us against believing that when we have a good system, weakening it will do better. The result in Sweden is that the proportion of temporaryity among young people is now around 50pst. That's the result of not making it easier to get a job, because people hire people to work if they need to hire people to work. Temporary employment is not about getting a job easier – it is about getting a job easier. That's what temporaryity is all about. It is true that the main difference is between those inside and those outside the labour market, and that is why we disagree with the government when it cuts into labour market measures for those with additional labour market challenges and in a wide range of other measures that the organisations of the disabled are strongly opposed to, among others. the proposal for temporary employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e670	I must be allowed to stress that education issues are probably the most crucial to combat inequality. That's one of the points that I think is under-communicated about what Piketty thinks is the most important thing. The most important thing, he says, is education. It is important to have an education system that offers equal opportunities and that allows you to lift yourself. That's a lot of things Piketty thinks, for example. that we should give away the oil fund, which I don't think are good ideas. It reduces his credit in other areas, I think, if he has so easily dealt with the future of Norway in a significant area. But the educational effort is incredibly important, and that's why we focus more on education, teachers' competences, the professions, research, development and all the other things I've talked a lot about in the past in this questionnaire. In addition, we focus on better health, care and others that allow more people to get into work, get through the health challenges they have, and get back to work. Therefore, I believe that this government has a more structured and better bet on combating inequality than the previous government had.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e675	Then the time for spontaneous questioning is up, case no. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e687	For representatives’ briefing, there are no changes to the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e694	‘Still more investors sell themselves out of coal, and last year it became clear that there is in reality a majority of the Storting to extract SPU from coal. A central question is how to define a coal company. For example, KLP sold itself. before Christmas by companies with more than half of the coal revenues. The Skancke Committee chose not to mention such criteria in its investigation, but could the Council confirm that possible criteria for the extraction of coal companies will nevertheless be discussed in the spring management report on the SPU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e703	The starting point for work on the State pension fund strategy is to provide the highest possible return within a moderate level of risk. A long-term and good management of the fund contributes to justice between generations by allowing those who come after us to use the petroleum revenues. Within the role of the financial investor, the fund shall also be a responsible investor. In March last year, the budget went to the Ministry of Finance to set up an expert group to assess the state pension fund abroad’s use of instruments and investments in coal and petroleum companies. In its December report last year, the Group advised to combine ownership and influence with a new criterion for exclusion of cross-sectoral climate hosting. I believe that there is a broad political consensus that any changes in the management of the Fund should be based on thorough professional assessments. The expert group’s report has now been on a wide-ranging consultation, and the report and consultation input provide us with a good platform to assess what is the most effective strategy for addressing climate issues and contributing to changes in time. The government will present its assessments to the Storting in the Spring Communication on the management of the State pension fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e718	I thank you for the answer, which I interpret as similar to a yes – that we will get a closer assessment of these questions. But I would also like to point out what the Council of State was about, namely the need for thorough professional assessments to underpin this type of action. Then it is interesting that the chairman of the Skancke Committee in the presentation of his report admitted that his views and those of the committee that it is trickier to sit inside a coal company and try to make it green, than to withdraw from it, are essentially based on vision – which was the word that was used. For example, KLP thinks: to the contrary, saying that when you withdraw from a coal company, you can use the money to invest in another company. So the very concrete, professional question to the Council of State is: Is she of the opinion that it doesn't matter whether the pension fund invests in a coal company or a renewable company? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e730	I'd like to remind you of speaking time. Councillor Siv Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e737	It is such that we have built the framework around the State pension fund stone by stone, year after year, based on thorough professional assessments and good anchoring in the Stortinget. That's the practice I'm going to follow. It's about doing what Stortinget asked us to do last year – asked this question. The report is now available, it has been widely consulted – everyone who has views and interests in this area has had the opportunity to make their views known. That will be the basis for the government's discussion of this issue in the communication submitted to spring. As the representative knows for sure, we have a set of instruments for the State pension fund abroad. We have instruments related to active ownership, which are important. We have the ethical framework, and we have extraction mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e746	I would like to follow up on the question of the purpose of the use of these mechanisms, because the government has so far made it quite clear that you do not want to see the State pension fund abroad as a climate policy instrument. However, when considering the argument about whether it is most appropriate for climate and sustainability to act in one way or another in terms of ownership, ownership or extraction, it is well accepted that there is a sustainability and climate objective for the pension fund. The question then is: Will this be reflected in a clearer and more holistic way by the government, and will we see how the government perceives the pension fund as a whole in the development of sustainability?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e755	First of all, it's not like the government has its own view on this issue. All issues related to the management of the State pension fund are broadly anchored in the Stortinget and have a broad majority behind them. It is one of the strengths of the State pension fund abroad: that there is no doubt about the broad political consensus on what this fund should be and what it should not be. This fund shall be a financial investor. It should not take other considerations into account. There are many special interests up through the years that have wanted it to be a foreign policy tool, a climate policy tool or a tool for other purposes. That's what the population has said it shouldn't be. The majority of economies of scale have repeatedly underlined the importance of the fund being a financial investor. But then, year after year, we have developed the framework, the ethical criteria, the active ownership exercise, and I can assure the representative Hansson that he gets plenty of opportunity to discuss all these questions when the announcement comes to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e768	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: «The Rjukan Arbeiderblad reports on 29 January 2015 that the anaesthetic supply at Rjukan is closed on 27 March and that from then on the hospital cannot stabilise acutely ill patients. This means that the medical department will not be prepared for the case of cardiac examination. The information came to light on the addendum. Why is the anaesthetic preparedness dropped, and can the Council of State guarantee that the emergency medical response will be alerted to the inhabitants of Upper Telemark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e777	In connection with the ongoing conversion at Rjukan Hospital, the Hospital Telemark has assessed the manning situation in the future. Based on this, the Hospital Telemark sees itself as having to make adjustments to the operation of inpatient emergency functions. Before 27 March, they will have to assess, on a weekend basis, whether the service has to be moved to the Notodden for reasons of soundness. In the Passover, the acute function of internal medicine will be performed on the Notodden. After Easter, until June 20, there will be ordinary inpatient emergency services at daytime in Rjukan, and the inpatient patients will be cared for by internal medicine specialists on a 24-hour basis. The hospital emergency facility in the evening and night will be maintained in the Notodden. It is stated that, as far as possible, it will be prepared for anaesthesia during the day. Assessments related to day-to-day operations are done by the Hospital Telemark. The hospital reports that there is a lack of normal nurses that is the main reason for the changes that are being made. It is justified by the generally difficult manning situation, not that nurses stop to take up positions in municipalities. The municipalities of Tinn and Vinje have proposed that these should only start after the conversion has been completed. The hospital reports that they use temporary workers for both anaesthetics and internal doctors, and that interns will continue to be used to maintain the function until 20 June, in line with the agreement with the municipality. The hospital also informs that the ambulance emergency response will be significantly intensified from 1 March. From this date there will be two daily ambulances available both in tin and in wine. This is ten times the estimated need. The hospital Telemark states that it is approx. one patient every five days who has brought an ambulance to Rjukan Hospital at night. They believe that these patients can be properly cared for by being sent to Notodden. I assume that the arrangements put in place by the Hospital Telemark ensure a proper emergency medical response.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e790	General Oddvar Eyegarden says in newspaper: ‘I thought they were going to run anaesthesia until the summer.’ So he's superior to the hospital in Rjukan. ‘It was supposed to be acute internal medicine until 20 June. When they shut down the anaesthesia, it won't work." For anaesthesia, the decision is that one should have such an offer. And also says superior: ‘This means that the emergency provision to the population is getting worse. The important thing about anaesthesia is that they provide stabilising first aid as an ambulance helicopter does.’ The possession of competent anaesthetic nurses is decisive for the possession of acute internal medicine. How will the Council of State ensure that one in the local hospital can still have acute internal medicine that is so important in the event of an emergency, including in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e810	As regards the offer of Rjukan hospitals, it has been adopted as of 20 June. What I wanted was for the emergency services to work until then, but there are recruitment challenges for nurses that make one have to have a more gradual downsizing, among other things. in the case of night and weekend staffing for some functions. Of course, it is not a desired development, we should have had the offer up and down until 20 June, but it is the Hospital Telemark that assesses for reasons of safety. If they experience that they do not have access to healthcare professionals that enable them to maintain a proper offer, it is very important that there is something that is planned for, that it does not happen randomly, and that this means that they have, for example: an enhanced daily ambulance offer. With regard to what is to be the offer of emergency services elsewhere in the country, there is some of the work we are now working on in connection with a national health and hospital plan that will be submitted to Stortinget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e817	I agree with the Council of State that it is important to have planned and well-implemented conversions when a first conversion takes place. As a result, it is so strange that one now gets such bards conversions that they are not aware of, and where one does not see that one has received that transition, the training, as one was said to have before this was cancelled. Why is it so important for the Council of State to cut down and centralize health services? In health, the Council of State was perceived as adding to a large-scale centralisation. What do the Council of State think about health professionals and their priorities when one hears that the Council of State is involved and ‘pusher’ is a centralisation? Will this not result in one, of course with scarce resources, centralizing and thinking that this is where we have the Council of State at work when we provide important services to local hospitals in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e824	Firstly, I am not familiar with the presentation of my hospital speech by the representative of Navarsete. On the contrary – in my hospital speech I was very clear and said that we are now working on models that will allow us to maintain a decentralised hospital structure in Norway, but at the same time ensuring the quality of the inhabitants. It is a work that we are now doing, and I have great hopes for the expert committee we have now been working on – the groups that are now working to come up with good models to maintain a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. I see that the Center Party is trying to create a different impression through reading and playing, but it's not going to be more accurate for that. So our work on the national health and hospital plan will, among other things, is about how to ensure that Norway still has the possibility of decentralised hospital structure while at the same time maintaining quality. So it's like I'm following closely all the changes that happen around the country. If there are changes or there are plans for changes that are contrary to government policy, of course I will intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e839	‘The Hospital Telemark HF budgets the resource use after approximately NRK Telemark on 16 January 2015. 100 pst. coating. The recommended international defence limit is 85 pst. The Medical Association believes that a high level of cover carries patient safety in Norwegian hospitals. President Güssing states to the Medisin Day on 6 January 2015 that if a plan with an occupancy rate above 93 pst, plan a higher mortality rate. The council will accept that the Sjukehuset Telemark plans for 100 pst. occupation by their hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e846	I have submitted the question to Health South-East regional health companies, which confirms that the Hospital Telemark has budgeted about 100 p.m. coating. I am concerned with quality and patient safety. The mission document of regional health enterprises aims to provide better, safer health care and increased survival. Hospitals are responsible for ensuring the proper operation of the capacity and quality of the services provided. I continuously monitor the quality and patient safety of the hospitals. There may be a risk of a budgeting practice of 100 pst. coating may go beyond service quality. I would therefore like to raise this matter with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e851	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister of Health is not entirely comfortable with the Sjukehuset Telemark budgeting 100 pst. coating. That's very serious. Other studies include: A new German study to which the Medical Association refers shows that a patient covering over 93 pst. increase mortality significantly. The reason why I address this question is that the Sjukehuset Telemark is also in front of a liquidation of Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital, so that they will take care of even more patients. Rjukan and Kragerø were defeated by arguments such as patient safety and quality. The question is whether Höie thinks this is what the people are going to be offered in the new hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e856	It is correct for the representative to mention that there may be a link between the coating percentage and the quality. In a 2001 health surveillance report, the State recommended that the average occupancy rate should not exceed 85 pst. for departments with immediate assistance and 90-95 pst. for departments having mainly planned activities. I am also familiar with the German study to which the representative refers. That's also why, when I'm now familiar with the fact that the Hospital Telemark is budgeting about 100 pst. coating, will take this up with Health south-east. The Hospital Telemark has several locations for its hospital activities in addition to Rjukan and Kragerø. They have locations in Skien, Porsgrön and Notodden, and that is the use of these, if necessary, after the closure of the offer on Rjukan and Kragerø, which they have to look at. But this is something that I'm going to take up with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e863	The number of beds one has in hospitals, including the number of beds, is associated with the number of beds. However, beds are important. Now plan to phase out some bed places in the Telemark Hospital. I would like to ask again what the Minister of Health is now saying he is going to bring up with Health South-East: does that mean that a person will not detach beds until one is sure that one gets a defensive coating percentage? And what the Minister of Health is now saying is that he wants to demand a defence limit of 85 p.m., as for example. other countries and, as the Medical Association and the Health Directorate have said, should be a defence limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e870	It is worth noting that in its 2001 report, health surveillance differs as regards the boundaries between the different types of departments. It is also the case that the decision of the Enterprise Meeting relating to Rjukan Hospital and Kragerø Hospital is permanent. So it's not like there's just the number of beds that matter for the coating percentage; there's also a lot of other factors that matter, among other things. the competence of hospital receptions. The Telemark Hospital is one of the hospitals that are now investing significantly in improving the competence of receptions, both in the Ski and in Notodden, where patients meet specialists or doctors in specialisation, and where they work for better arrangements. Experience from other hospitals that have done this has meant that you have avoided unnecessary hospitalisation. There are also many other issues that affect this, including: the establishment of municipal island aid beds by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e881	‘The Executive Meeting of 5 June 2014 in Health South-East confirmed the decision taken at the Hospital Telemark HF on the closure of emergency functions in Kragerø and Rjukan. The company meeting asked for plans for prehospital services to be updated and renewed in good time before the closure of emergency facilities at the Hospital Telemark, Rjukan. According to the 2014-16 Development Plan, the emergency function for internal medicine at Rjukan was to continue until 20 June 2015. Is the State Council satisfied with the way in which the Hospital Telemark HF has followed up its business records?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e888	I have to deal with the last review that the board of the Hospital Telemark had on 29 October 2014, where the Chief Executive's updated emergency response plan and the prehospital services approved, and where the Board asked the Director to update and renew the plan if necessary. The Hospital Telemark has gone through the manning situation ahead and states that it is already necessary to make changes to the acute function of internal medicine in order to meet the requirement of soundness. From 7 April to 20 June there will only be emergency functions in internal medicine in Rjukan during the day. The inpatient beds at Rjukan Hospital continue until June 20, as planned. The Hospital Telemark informs us that from 1 March 2015 there will be two daily ambulances available both in Tinn and in Vinje. The system is introduced in order not to risk conflicts of co-existence. The Hospital Telemark states that preparedness represents an increase in capacity of ten times what is the estimated need. The assessment related to day-to-day operation is that of the Hospital Telemark. The migration situation has made it difficult for the Hospital Telemark to follow its original plan. This should have been reserved in the development plan. With regard to the prehospital services, I will follow developments and review the status before the conversion is finally completed on 20 June. For the time being, I assume that the scheme to which the Hospital Telemark refers is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e897	My question did not go to the management of the Hospital Telemark, it went to the Council of State. It's the Council of State's assessment we're going to have, not a record of what the Hospital Telemark is writing. On 17 June 2014, the Council of State, when examining the issue of emergency services at Rjukan, said: ‘I also hope that this decision will start a renewed and enhanced cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and Tinn Municipality on the development of joint health services between the municipal health service and the specialist health service for those of the areas to be left at the hospital in Rjukan. There are outpatient services and day services, and there will also be the opportunity to develop better cooperation with the medical service, immediate help beds, etc. So this could be the beginning of something new, not just the liquidation of something that has happened." Has the Chairman and CEO of the Hospital Telemark followed up what the Council of State said here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e909	We have followed that up – not only from the Hospital Telemark, but also from the Ministry of Health and Welfare and Health South-East. They have been in continuous dialogue with Tinn Municipality to follow up this part. Former Director of Health South-East has had a direct commitment to following up this, and it will also be followed up further by Health South-East. That's right, as the representative says, he's asking me questions and not the board of directors of the Hospital Telemark, it's quite obvious. But it must also be clear that when it comes to assessing the soundness of day-to-day operations in a hospital, and having the manning needed to ensure its soundness, neither I nor the Stortinget must ever consider relocating that responsibility from the management and the board. Then a very quick mistake will come from farms, because it is those who have to sit and assess whether the staff they have available, so that they can offer the inhabitants a decent offer. It must not be over-tested either by me or by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e916	As a member of the Control Committee, I am reasonably aware of what is the functional distribution. Now the government has said that he will address the question of a hundred percent coverage. It probably means in good Norwegian that the Hospital Telemark has made a mistake here, so it is essential that the Council of State sees itself having to intervene as a result of a question in Stortinget. In the case of the emergency function of internal medicine, it was also removed at Christmas due to a disease. There were two nurses with short-term absences and one with long-term absences, and they were not called in, so the emergency offer was cancelled at Christmas. When and where else has management not been able to maintain an emergency offer when one has resources in the total organisation to play on?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e925	It is absolutely right that if a health company has plans or makes decisions that I believe are not in line with the government's policy or what is national leadership, then I intervene. However, what the representative addresses is a situation in which the manning situation makes it difficult for the hospital's management to be in a position to be responsible for the properness of the offer that is made. Then I think the representative has to take over – I think we all have to take over – that a hospital where it is decided to close the offer will have more recruitment challenges than others. It is the local management who has to assess this, and I am very concerned that that kind of situation does not create unplanned falls in the supply of a hospital by, for example, creating a hospital. would have gone into Christmas without having planned for this, or that one would have gone into the spring without planning for the situation that is there then – then you increase the risk to the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e936	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: «In the 1980s, there were separate special-interest HV units in Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger called HV-016. They had a short response time and could have important emergency services when the police needed rapid assistance from the Defense Department. In Oslo Military Society and to the Evening Post on 7 April 2014, the Minister of Defense said that she wanted to see if it was necessary to rebuild priority units that could quickly assist the police in populace areas. How is this subsequently followed up, and does the Council of State see it as appropriate to re-establish HV-016-like units?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e948	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for a good question. As he of course knows, HV-016 was dropped in 2010 by the previous government. All the operators were then offered to join the Home Corps, and very many did so. I'm glad because they have a very valuable competence. So also asked the Right, Left and Advance Party in the budgetary position given in December 2013, the government to assess – as Bohemia also says – the restoration of similar types of departments. I commissioned the head of defence in January 2014 to look at this issue. He then made a clear recommendation to the Ministry of Defence. It is, as the representative of Bohemia is well-known, the responsibility of the police to handle, for example. Terrorism on Norwegian soil, but the defense can always assist the police, and we can do that throughout the spectrum. In the most acute situations, there are typically special forces called for, but we also provide a lot of assistance, for example. with helicopter resources, and we have now also reduced the response time on helicopter assistance to the police from 2 hours to 1 hour. The police have not yet stated that they see an unmet need where HV-016 was, and some of the reasons for it are likely that quite a central framework conditions have changed since 2010. One is that the government is now also funding the Marine Hunter Command on national alert together with the Special Command of the Defence Force. The second is that we have also considerably strengthened the forces in Homeland. We have now funded more training and training for selected troops in five effort forces. So they get to practice and train for up to 30 days, and it's also an important resource for the police. In addition, the capacity of the justice sector to handle this type of estimate has also been strengthened through both response personnel and response teams. On 1 October last year, I commissioned the Chief of Defense to prepare a new professional-military council, and in that mission, I have clear expectations that the Chief of Defense will look at both the Home Guard's equipment and tasks as a whole, but of course I have also asked him specifically to look at how we can best assist the police and support social protection whenever necessary. But when that's said, the defense chief's recommendation is very clear, and it doesn't seem to have any unmet needs at this point. Among other things, he refers to the police, but also to the fact that so much has now happened on the emergency front that the need seems to be largely covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e963	I thank the Council of State for an interesting and good answer. We as representatives of the Storting had the same starting point for the debate that was on HV-016, so I will praise the Minister of Defence for having followed up in Oslo Military Society and in the initiatives taken. The answer that the Council of State has received from the head of defence, I am a little critical of it, because it was the same position in 2010. There has been a development now where we see, for example. IS in Syria combining military warfare with terrorist attacks in Western countries, against countries participating in military warfare down there, so that the interweaving of the need for military action and police action could be even greater in the future. I don't think you see what the need for aid can be. I would like to hear how the Council of State will assess this in the future – there is a new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e975	My starting point is the same as for all previous governments, namely that it is the responsibility of the police to deal with any terrorist attacks on Norwegian soil, but they can ask for assistance from the Defense, and that is done on a regular basis. I'm concerned that we're going to have both very good cooperation, which I feel we have now, and of course we're going to take into account all the time how cooperation can get better, and whether we have the right resources at all times to assist the police. But it is the police who are responsible, and in that case they will have to ask for assistance in particular. When I ask the head of defence to draw up a new professional-military advice, I'm sure he's going to take various assessments into that work. He's also going to do it in an independent way. What he's going to present around October 1st when the council is to be finished, I don't know or I want to put leadership on. The whole point is that there should be an independent assessment. But what is important to emphasise is that there are key framework factors in preparedness, which have changed since 2010, and it has weighed heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e984	I also thank you for a good answer to the supplementary question. This was a problem that we had also raised in the 22nd July committee of the Stortinget, which dealt with the Gjørv Commission, that the police were too slow to ask for assistance from the Defense on 22 July. We have e.g. in France now sees the extent of the need for assistance in this type of situation, where there is no understanding of the extent of the attack and the extent of what can happen, and where there is a need for as many actors as possible to be on the spot as quickly as possible. It is clear that it will take time – without wondering how long the response time – before some of the special forces can arrive, for example. Oslo, Trondheim, etc., and then there's a need to have someone who's much closer to, and who's in the neighbourhoods, who can assist the police quickly, because these things happen very quickly, that's the difference from normal military threats. I would like to ask again about that police culture etc. where the government was to take the initiative to try to improve it in relation to asking for assistance and whether it has been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e996	As far as I was concerned, I feel that the cooperation between the police and the defence in this area is good. They practice and train a lot together, and it's really one of the most important basic factors to make cooperation work well when it really needs to be. As I was also concerned, the defense can silently with its full range of capabilities in support of the police – there are no restrictions on that – and the police must then ask if what they think is most appropriate at any time to resolve a particular situation. The fact that we have also reduced the response time on the helicopter on the Back and on Bardufoss from 2 hours to 1 hour is a very important support for the police. That means you can move the police quickly if anything happens, and we also have military capabilities in different places in the country that can, of course, be used. Of course, the fact that we now also have both the Marine Hunter Command and the Special Command for Defence at national level is also of great importance in this context, while we have also stepped up the reinforcement of the Home Security Force, which is more geographically dispersed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1012	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Does the Council of State need to draw up a separate action plan on antibiotic resistance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1020	I want to show that the government this spring has announced a cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance. The departments concerned, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are in the process of doing so. The strategy is inter alia: a follow-up to the report of an expert group set up by the four ministries. The experts are to be considered Norway’s foremost in the field. The report ‘Antibiotic resistance — knowledge gaps, challenges and current actions’ proposes eight areas of action in the fields of public health, animal health, food and the environment. For me, it has been important to act quickly and to take the necessary action on my own responsibility without waiting for strategies and action plans. I have met the challenges of my responsibilities offensively and am already undertaking a number of actions in several of the eight areas of action proposed by the expert group. In the 2015 budget proposal, I have announced a strengthening of both monitoring and research related to antibiotic resistance, and I also redispatched additional funds for new research projects in this area at the end of last year. This will contribute to better knowledge of reservoirs and better knowledge of the consequences of different types of animal resistance. Furthermore, in 2014 I agreed to a very ambitious strategy that involved testing about 1000 sow herds and the reorganisation of herds that tested positive, to prevent the resistant bacteria LA-MRSA from getting foothold in Norwegian pig holdings. I am now working to put in place a compensation scheme to reduce the financial burden on owners of pig herds who have been diagnosed with this bacterium. Many of the challenges related to antibiotic resistance must be met through international cooperation. In discussions with the EU Commissioner for Agriculture, Food Safety and Health, I have specifically addressed the problem of the presence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in international poultry breeding and veterinary practices and the supply of antibiotics in many EU countries. This last issue, in cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Fisheries, I will continue to follow up on the EU, which is currently working on a revision of the pharmaceutical and medicated feed legislation. I also have good cooperation with my Nordic colleagues in this work. In addition, in the management dialogue with the Food Safety Authority, I pay attention to improvements in the Register for the Use of Medicinal Products for Animals. I will continue to focus on both national and international antibiotic resistance. The most important thing is to act. I've done that, and I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1037	I would like to thank you for your briefing on what has been done. I am concerned that one, in addition to the short-term measures that one can take, has a longer-term action plan, as a follow-up to the strategy. I record that, in letters to the Committee, the Council of State has written that she has placed more emphasis on acting than on drawing up action plans. It is a little surprising that last week in the European Committee of Health Ministers Bent Höie said: ‘We see it as natural to follow up the action plan strategy in the various areas, so it will be the next step after we have put the strategy in place in the spring.’ So then my question is again, which must be a yes/no question, if the Council of State sees the need to draw up a separate action plan against antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1047	I can assure the representative Pollestad that all the work we do in the department on antibiotic resistance is a long-term work. To take one example: work towards international forums, especially the EU, will go beyond time to try to influence them to have the same legislation as we do when it comes to veterinarians, for example. not to make money on antibiotic prescription. So I think it's also important, of course, to look at what challenges we're facing. I believe that within the agricultural area it has been done very much. The use of antibiotics in livestock decreased by 35 pst. from 1995 to 2013. Looking at a prescription of antibiotics for humans, the increase over the last eight years was greater than the total use we have today for animals. Human consumption is higher than in Sweden and the Netherlands. I think we are facing different challenges, but the most important thing is that we find good measures that are being taken, and we have done so in the field of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1056	I note that the Council of State has a little difficulty answering the question, which is quite short and concise, so I want to reform it a little bit and say: Has Bent Höie coverage for what he has said in the European Commission of the United Kingdom, namely that the government ‘Does it seem natural to follow up the strategy of action plans in the various areas, so it will be the next step after we have put the strategy in place in the spring’? Does the Council agree with the Minister for Health that such action plans should also be drawn up in the field of agriculture, or does it disagree? And has the Council of State Höie provided the European Committee with the wrong information?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1066	There are no problems in drawing up action plans, but that is not what is most important in this case. The most important thing is to implement concrete measures, which the Ministry of Agriculture has done in a large way after a political change in the department. Very well known, there was little interest in antibiotic resistance before the government change, and one did not take any special measures either. Now the Stortinget will also deal with a matter in this room quite soon that deals with an action plan, and I am sure there will be an interesting round there on the same topic. But the most important thing is to continue to work on researching and keeping the pig herds free from MRSA — it's a continuous struggle — and find out more about what's in the chicken sector, at all, to gain more knowledge and follow up the knowledge you're collecting. It's a work that we're doing well and that we're going to continue whether it's an action plan or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1073	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1086	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the last representative in the Chamber does not want the floor before the sitting is cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1091	It's okay!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-11.ana.ud214e1096	It's okay, yeah! Then the meeting has been cancelled.
