ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e26	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e29	On behalf of the representatives of Pål Farstad, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on new gender-neutral titles to replace health-sisters and midwives – or sex-washing titles in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e51	Work is the red thread in meeting some of the key challenges of our time – efforts to combat growing unemployment, which is now becoming higher than in Germany and on its way to the United States level, efforts to reduce climate change emissions and efforts for the integration of people living in Norway. We need leadership in these areas to set targets and mobilise efforts, so that businesses create more jobs, that jobs come in businesses where climate emissions are falling to zero, and that pathways are created into training and qualification for work for people who have been on the run, through, among other things. Norwegian training and qualification, so that they can be included as quickly as possible while staying, become contributors, taxpayers and employees. None of this comes of itself. Business leadership is required, where innovation takes place and most jobs are created, in municipalities and local communities, to contribute to integration, and in business and social partners, who are to play an important role in making progress. I demand that the government show political leadership – against growing unemployment, for the new jobs – to meet the formidable challenge of cutting 40 pst. in greenhouse gas emissions and in order to achieve successful integration. When the budgetary agreement became clear – in the past week over time – we heard four different presentations from the settlement parties. None of them had put up a fight against unemployment as the main thing for what they had agreed on. In the last week, the debate was about who had invented an airline seat charge – bag last year, airline seat this year. My question is: is the Prime Minister planning new concrete initiatives to strengthen efforts to tackle the growing unemployment in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e60	From the day this government joined, Norwegian competitiveness, in order to create the jobs of the future, has been our main priority. That is why we have provided more funding for research and development. There has been a shift in focus, as we also see in companies' own investments in research and development, which increased markedly in 2014. There was a shift in that, among other things. as a result of increased incentives from the government to do so. We're concerned about exactly what Jonas Gahr Støre said now, namely that creating jobs in the future is the answer to a lot of the challenges we're facing. We need to create new jobs in a different way in the future to help solve the climate challenges. We have to do it to get the integration, and we have to do it because we're going to lack some jobs because there's going to be more efficiency and less activity in the oil and gas sectors. But this is not something we started with in the harvest. We started with that in the autumn of 2013, and both purposes – climate and transition to new jobs – were highly prioritised. The budget we have presented is a budget for work, activity and conversion. It is a budget that has at the bottom more money for research and development, and has more money to stimulate businesses. We have put forward a tax reform to stimulate more investment and new businesses in the future. We have a green tax commission that will soon come, to contribute to the distortion of the tax system related to it, and we have our own working group, a separate sample, working with green competitiveness and making sense to put this together. But this isn't something we started with in the harvest. We started in the autumn of 2013. There's been an even greater need for this. However, there has been a shift in Norway following the government change in terms of new jobs and raising competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e67	I note that there is no planned new initiative. New initiatives are not planned to involve social partners. The availability continues to rise. Many of the measures taken by the government have limited the impact of the government’s own investigations, and the certainty of the measures taken can be discussed to the greatest extent. Economists point out that a different effort, a different emphasis in the way the community uses its resources, can bring unemployment down. The question is, how will the Prime Minister think of an unemployment that continues to rise, and how high must it be before she sees the need to think new, to move new ways, to take new initiatives in relation to the recipe she has maintained since the government change? We proposed, among other things: in our budget, a better law on permitting, which employees and employers have requested. In addition, several study sites, action sites and stronger efforts to support the development of climate and environmental technologies. Is this action that the Prime Minister may assess whether she is taking new initiatives against unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e72	The budget contains several action areas. The budget is a major lever for competitiveness. It is a little special to hear that there is no intervention in this budget, when one knows that implementing a tax reform will lift the investments, which the Workers' Party usually says is important. But right now it is forgotten that initiatives have actually been taken – it is on the table – and we have taken the first major step in the budget that comes next year, which contributes to future-oriented investment and is necessary for good framework conditions in Norway. We also contribute more activity directly in the short term, in addition to the big, long-term promises. But we have a record of research, we have a record of investment in the transport sector, and we have a big tax reform going on. We take into account by lifting the investments in and the green regimes changed significantly since the government change. But I know there's one thing that's not the answer, and that's to blow up the long-term public expenditure -- that's the answer the Labour Party has given in its budget -- and to raise taxes. It is not to say yes to future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e79	It opens for follow-up questions – first from Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e82	For the sake of order, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that our alternative budget is not characterised by inflating public expenditure, but by supporting private business in a situation where unemployment is increasing, and increasing activity. When the government took over, they – often talking about the red-green government – took over Europe’s lowest unemployment rate and a resilient business. Now we see that in other countries the unemployment rate goes down – in Norway the unemployment rate goes up. We need to put particular emphasis on the labour market, but we also need to focus on supporting the people who are unemployed, through – as the representative Gahr Støre said – a better law of permancy, which the social partners have asked for, and more areas of action, which can help more people get back to work as quickly as possible. But the government is going the other way: they cut out the pay guarantee after bankruptcy, they cut out the holiday money for the unemployed – they cut at all almost 2 billion. For the unemployed. Then my question becomes: Shouldn't we, as a society, show solidarity for those who become unemployed, rather than – as the government does – punish them by 2 billion? kr. in cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e89	Increased activity for the unemployed is important and good, but it does not create the new, forward-looking jobs. But it helps them, so the government has put it in. An increase of 3.5 pst. in public expenditure plus significant fiscal consolidation does not provide a basis for the economic growth that Norway needs and that is sustainable in the long term. The transition we're in needs one thing, and it's getting new jobs, new jobs, in competitive business in Norway. Then it's the framework conditions for what we have to pay more attention to. The government does, it doesn't do the Workers' Party. The working party significantly increases public expenditure in its budget and contributes to increased tax burdens on businesses. It's not a recipe for new jobs. The Labour Party has a budget – like the government – that contributes to more activity for the unemployed. It is good in the short term, but in the long term, the Workers' Party has the wrong answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e98	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e101	Much of the unemployment we see is a result of the fall in the oil industry. The Christian People's Party seems to have done a lot of good work in different areas to meet this situation, both in the budget and in the action package. But yesterday and today, we could read, especially in Stavanger Aftenblad, that it is not only the oil industry and the supplier industry that are being hit, but also the five largest contractors who are notifying about their permits. It's almost like a house that's getting rich on the ground wall. Is the government assessing further short-term and medium-term measures within the next months and next year to meet the situation, especially for very many people in the South-West?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e109	Then the government added a package of 4 billion. In the budget, it was precisely because of the situation that is primarily concerned not only with oil producers but also with the supply and service industries in the area. That is why we have also said that we should concentrate some of the instruments where unemployment is growing most, and that is in the South-West. And that's why we've added up to activities related to, among other things. construction in these areas in order to have more activity to offer and to ensure that we can help people maintain both knowledge and competence, but also turn to other types of jobs. We know that for a long time we have lacked engineering skills. We know that many companies have not had enough skilled workers. Now it's about getting that workforce in other areas and getting used to it, so people don't go out on the road. Some leave will be in the job change situation, but it is important to make sure that it does not get stuck and stay long. But job number one has to be getting the new jobs. We also have to have a lot of concentration on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e116	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e119	Last year, the Stortinget decided to add 10 billion to Statkraft. crowns in order to implement the investment plan. This plan includes, inter alia: the development of wind power in central Norway. This would be one of the largest construction projects in mainland Norway ever. Norway needs it now. Quickly and unexpectedly, the majority of the parties take half of the money back. This is happening at a time of increasing unemployment and, among other things, of increasing unemployment. financing projects by bathing in kindergartens. Even for Statkraft, it's noticed when someone raps 5 billion. krones. Projects that are not realised do not provide jobs for the future. What we need now, is action, not good talk. So my question is, does the Prime Minister think this is a wise decision at a time when employment needs are high? And can the Prime Minister promise that she will ensure that the Fosen wind power plant is built in line with the expectations you had when the case was dealt with in Stortinget last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e126	There have been over time different signals from the State on whether they will participate in carrying out the investments on the Fosen, and to what extent they will implement it and contribute. I respect the fact that the parties have adopted and said that they want to take a greater profit from State power, because, among other things, they want to take a greater profit from State power. has seen a different investment structure from that originally underpinned by Statkraft. But I think we're going to respect that and take that profit. We have new challenges today. There is a lot in the budget we have put forward that contributes to more investment and contributes to long-term investment. Then there is a responsibility for State Power and the other partners finally to decide whether they can realize the wind power project on Fosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e131	Terje Breivik on follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e134	Although Gahr Støre has not understood it, the Prime Minister is well aware that measures that will strengthen employment, value creation and green growth have been one of the main priorities of the Left in the recent budgetary negotiations. The additional billion that the government had contributed to various business and innovation measures has been double, a new state green investment fund will be established, and a green tax shift of a certain format is in place, where work and employment and value creation are being premiered. The question is whether this is enough, not least because it is urgent, both for a business that has to compete in a world market where green values for the longest are heavy drivers, and for strengthening climate reconciliation – and whether the Prime Minister sees additional measures, reinforcements, all in revised 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e143	I hope we can get the state budget adopted for 2016 before we discuss how to revise it. It is good that we are getting started and seeing the effects of a budget which is both expansive and offensive, and which has not least become even more offensive in some areas through the budget agreement we have reached in Stortinget. For this government, creating a competitive Norway and taking Norway safely through a transformation that means that we have a broader basis for our economic base, a main task. In every budget round we've had on Stortinget, we've strengthened the measures related to this, and we're going to show flexibility as demand increases for different types of action to achieve it. We have to do something both in the short and long term. The most important thing about what we do in the short term is that it contributes to activity, but it doesn't go the wrong way with what we're going to achieve in the long term, which is being more innovative and greener, but also having more jobs, which can pay taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e150	Snorre the Serigstad Option - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e153	In a state budget with record oil spending, was it really necessary to cut half a billion in employment measures in municipalities and increase the tax on unemployment in order to pay for refugee expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e158	The government put forward a package of $4 billion. kr for increased employment, more conversion and more work. There is no doubt that with the establishment of more asylum recipients, with much of the activity taking place, there will also be activity and employment related to it around Norway. There are also limits to how much money you should spend. The government created a budget impulse of 0.7 pst. for our ordinary budget, which received good support from professionals, that this was a proper economic policy at the moment, and that it was where we should be in this year's budget, not spend more oil money. That is why we have chosen to make some changes to the device on some of the package, but also in other areas of the budget, which are not our primary wish, but which help us to get into port within responsible budgets, with a budget that contributes to work and employment. Then there are some parts that get slightly changed, and that's natural. It's really a good thing to fit into 9.2 billion. in a finished budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e167	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e171	There are not many weeks since the Prime Minister was in Stortinget last, but much has happened in the security policy area. The cruel war that is raging in Syria and parts of Iraq causes many to ask whether this will increase uncertainty even beyond the Middle East. The Paris terror showed that violence can infect Europe. Turkey's shooting down a Russian fighter plane created an unwanted tipping of the conflict; and since Turkey is a NATO country, the shooting down could sharpen the relationship between NATO and Russia seriously. That is why I am pleased that NATO's Secretary-General now insists that what we need is a slowdown in the level of tension, active diplomacy and political discussions on the way forward. The same blasphemy had the UN special broadcast to Syria when he visited Norway on Monday. It is clear to everyone that increasing bombing and using weapons is not a solution, because there is a lack of a common political roadmap. The main actors involved in the fight against the terrorist group IS have to step down, not use the forces to fight each other. A truce between them and a political process about Syria's future is now needed. People need to know what's coming instead of IS's terror fields. Only then can there be a basis for cooperation that can sweep IS off the track. How does my Prime Minister think Norway can help to promote the political process and the cooperation that is needed to give us a quick hope of stopping military struggles between the many parties that share the desire to fight down, create a road map for peace in Syria and reduce the threat of terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e182	I fully agree that we have a bigger and more challenging security policy situation than what we have had in the past. This concerns both what happened in Ukraine and Crimea last year, and the increased warfare in Iraq and Syria, although this is a conflict that has been going on for quite a long time – soon within its fifth year. One of the major challenges is that many of the conflicts of interest — yes, almost all of the conflicts of interest — in the Middle East are also gathering in the conflict in Syria and Iraq. The different countries have different interests, and therefore there has been no collective intervention to reverse ISIL in Syria, at least not up to now, because one has been more concerned about fighting for the interests of its own stakeholders in the area. What may seem to be a greater ‘momentum’ now is to reverse ISIL and put a little away these spheres of interest that neighbouring countries have, as Russia has had, and that have made it difficult to reach the political solutions. We believe that there is positive progress in the conversations, but we also have to do something on the ground in terms of weakening ISIL militarily, I think, in order to get final solutions. But if the cancers now work on this, we'll see more results in that area. That's how Norway contributes. We experience a lot of good feedback on the contributions we make. One of our most important contributions is the initiative we have taken at a donor country conference, where we have now received both Germany, the United Kingdom and Kuwait as partners, to help help with the refugee situation. Clearly, for the nearest neighbouring countries, it is incredibly important that we find solutions to the refugee situation and the framework conditions around it, because the local population in the same areas also bears a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e193	I thank you for your answer. The Prime Minister says that there is no collective grip; I agree. However, there are also some positive moves now – the fact that Russia and the United States are at the same table, the fact that countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran sit together for seven hours and discuss how they can resolve the conflict. We wouldn't have believed that only four weeks ago could have happened now. Staffan de Mistura, who is a special broadcast for Syria, was asked when he visited Norway, and he said, "Someone bombs them, but to win requires a political solution in Syria." If you know what the political solution is, he was asked about it. Then he replied: inclusion, including those who feel excluded, especially sunnar, so they don't feel that they have to tolerate IS, in the hope that one day they will be included. My question is, what ambition is Norway and the Prime Minister have in order for us to have a political solution, and within what time perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e202	Norway has every time this has been addressed, said that we do not solve this militarily; we solve it politically. There must be a government in Syria that is inclusive, which has a transition to a democratic or another government in the future, where all groups are included. This also applies in particular to what has been a very important political point for this government in relation to Iraq, for our commitment to Iraq, that the Iraqi Government must also be able to be inclusive, secure representation both from the Sun and from the Kurds, in a way that makes them agree with the fight against IS in their own country. We need both to fight it in Iraq, where we also participate with military assistance in the form of training, and to fight it in Syria. The time perspective is hard to say about. This is about the will of the countries with the greatest interest in this area, and now it is a ‘moment’ of the terrorist acts in Paris. I hope we can see it in months, but there are a lot of interests that need to be settled to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e209	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e212	First of all, I would like to thank you for your answers. My party leader referred to the UN Special Mission to Syria, and he pointed specifically to at least three factors that had changed, which made the situation look more positive. He pointed out first that the refugee conflict affects everyone in Europe, and thus there are several people who have an involvement in the matter. The second is that ISIL has progressed, and the third is that there has been a change in conditions since Russia intervened in Syria. He referred to the negotiations in Vienna and the conversations there, and despite the shooting that Turkey made of the Russian fighter plane, he thought it was a very positive progress. But he stressed that it needed political action to, quickly, and his goal was that the processes started well already in January 2016 – not in 2017, not in 2018. And when we see the sufferings and the conflict that rage, it's urgent. What does Norway want to do to really speed up the processes? How can we contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e219	Firstly, I agree that it is important to get solutions quickly, and I agree that there is a ‘momentum’ at the moment. Now both France and Russia are taking terrorist actions that are likely to originate from forces in or around or inspired by ISIL. It also helps to increase the motivation they have, and the military activity has increased. Then we also hope that it comes to the political table. We contribute by highlighting the need for the political solutions with all of those we talk about, but it's clear that we're not the ones in the first row to solve this. But we're dealing with conflict resolution expertise, we're facilitating groups and work. After all, we have worked for several years with individual groups in Syria to work with local peacekeeping, local conflict resolution. So, as I said, it's also this with someone taking on leadership responsibility by making sure that there's money coming in to help in the most critical areas. Norway has taken a lead in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e228	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e231	I would like to thank Mr Hareide for an important question and the Prime Minister for giving good answers. We are a small country and totally dependent on international law and that not large states are able to accommodate small ones. That is why we condemn Russia's actions in Ukraine and support the sanctions. «From dialogue to action» was the Prime Minister's slogan when she presented the government's Northern Territory bet a year ago. But isn't the time we're in now, a time when there's just a need for more dialogue? We disagree with Russia in many ways, but in today's situation we have a fundamental common interest in combating terrorism. Will the Prime Minister increase the dialogue with Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e236	I think those who come on TV see that we have extensive dialogue at the moment, with some common problems at the north border. We have conversations with Russia in different areas. But I've been very concerned that the situation that has followed Ukraine and Crimean annexation should not lead to Norway taking a kind of bilateral role that is different from our allies in this context. We're going to continue the good cooperation we have in the north, we're still going to be completely predictable in what we're doing, we're going to underline that work. But I still believe that the basis of our bilateral cooperation should be the relationship between Norway and Russia, and then we should agree on the major solutions with our allies and others. It is still important, also for the sake of one million people who are internally displaced by the war acts that go up and down in Ukraine, that we remember that if international law is our first defense, international law is also for the first time in recent years broken on Europe’s land – just by Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e243	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e247	It needs political solutions to resolve the situation in Syria and in the region, but TV 2 could report yesterday that the United States will now send special soldiers to Syria and Iraq to carry out missions. TV 2 also reports that Germany will probably offer military support in the form of reconnaissance planes, frigates and up to 1200 soldiers, and the UK Parliament discusses whether to also launch air strikes against IS in Syria. In other words, it seems that the war will be escalated. Norway has no tradition of making military contributions without mandate from the UN or as part of a NATO operation. The Central Party has expressed concern about whether Norwegian forces can thereby end up in a potentially long-term war with uncertain results. We also fear that a Norwegian military contribution in Iraq will seize resources that could benefit from training and operations in Norway. How does the Prime Minister assess this situation? What does it think is Norway's role in this escalation of military intervention that is now taking place in Iraq and possibly Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e256	It is true that France has been hit by a terrorist attack on its own land with a background in this area. They have not asked for help from NATO nor have they asked for help directly from Norway. But it is clear that they have experienced an attack on their territory with the background of this. It is always difficult to make the international legal assessments of the situation; it will always change over time. That's why I think having absolutes is not right. As of today's date, we have not received any request for military support beyond what we are giving today. Our starting point is that in Iraq, the local and neighbouring forces should be mobilised most locally and built up the Iraqi army as an inclusive army and as an army capable of reversing. There we see that our role in the future is primarily training. I would say that in a situation that is dynamic with these changes, we will make assessments if we get requests, and then we will also make the international judgements. To philosophize so much back and forth around it before we see concrete situations, I don't think will be very useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e261	Ola Elvesuen for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e264	There is little doubt that the IS must be combated militarily, and Norway also contributes with the forces we have in Erbil and in Baghdad. The situation in Syria is terribly complicated, and it's relatively easy to define who you're against; it's harder who you are for. It could be the Kurdish areas in the north where you have a stability, where you live four and a half million people, and where you can also contribute to the reconstruction needed in the area. But then it gets more complicated. Russia is primarily involved in Syria to assist the Assad regime more than it is a dedicated fight against IS. The question is: what is the Prime Minister's view of the possibility of finding a solution for Syria while at the same time being able to make a transition where the Assad regime is also gone? After all, it is all the regime that is responsible for the greatest deaths in Syria. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e271	In our opinion, a political solution must continue to include that the Assad regime is changing, that there is going to be another common government. And so it is that a political solution must be chosen by the people who are actually to be governed by the political leaders. The rest of us can have a lot of strong leadership about who should be there or not, but it is the country and the population themselves that must gradually gain control. A political solution with Assad at the top over a long period of time, in my opinion, is not a sustainable solution, and that will not allow people to come up with. I believe that the starting point must be the requirements that have been set before, and then you have to find transitional arrangements to solve this. But it is, as I said, a solution that must be owned by Syria's own population and its own groups, and not necessarily just dictated from outside how it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e276	Audun Lighthouse for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e279	Finding a solution to the crisis in Syria is not about placing only the actors in the conflict itself, but also those outside Syria who have contributed in various ways to a very complex picture of war, where conflict lines cross and cross. Then the West must also dry to look critically at our own allies, at the role of Turkey, and not least at the one Islamic religious dictatorship that the West actually supports, the one in Saudi Arabia, which plays a role in the conflict in Syria, has played a role in the conflict in Yemen, which whips oppositionists, who are known for a very brutal policy towards both their own people and others. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: Norwegian exports of military equipment to Saudi Arabia doubled last year. Will the Prime Minister now consider stopping such an export?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e284	I just want to start by saying that I agree that you have to look critically at all the actors, including those who are allies, and the interests they have. We must put them in charge of whether they support, whether they follow the sanctions, whether they provide the financial basis, for example. for ISIL, who has obtained a lot of money. They're obviously also dealing with their oil. Then it is important that we follow up and take responsibility for the trade routes and other things that are in order to get that material out. There is no doubt that there are forces both in Turkey and Saudi Arabia and others in the game between many countries that have the smaller countries in the region as a sphere of interest for their groups and that are ethnically different and religiously different. It's a big game. We are concerned that our relationship with Saudi Arabia should be based on the export rules we have today. We have currently no plans to amend the export rules to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e293	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e296	It's a long-distance country we live in, and it's activity and value creation from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. In this country with fjords and mountains and great distances, there is not railway everywhere. The president's home state and my home state are the two states where we're flying the least. But you go north, in Finnmark, that's what you fly most. There's no railway, and there's no fighting distances. If we go all the way to North Norway and also the West, the small airports, the short-haul network, the connecting link that connects the parts of the country, and that connects the country. Many of those routes are marginally profitable. Aviation has reacted more or less with disbelief that there is now a charge that makes the routes that are today marginally profitable become unprofitable tomorrow. And they are clear that very many district routes will disappear. The forest Lund, NHO, has said that thousands of jobs can disappear. NHO Aviation called the charge on nationwide radio — I regret the use of language, but it is the words of the NHO — ‘galitatias’, ‘symbol’ and ‘molbopolitik’. Last year the bag fee came – a late nightly hour no one wanted a fee. Fortunately, it was blown off in the last hour. This year, it's this plane seat fee that's coming in late at night. My question is: Can we hope that the same thing happens with this tax that happened with the bag tax last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e305	I have little faith in that. Climate taxes are among the things a broad majority of the Stortinget has said should be important instruments in the future. We're going to increase the green tax rate and reduce the red tax rate, i.e. the tax rate on work and businesses. It's important for employment, it's important for the future of work, it's important to create jobs. So we're going to have to value it to contaminate. Air travel pollutes. Then there is a climate tax on air travel, which the four parties have agreed on, in line with the basic assumptions – and the basic majority we have had on the Stortinget – that we should actually turn that way. I think this is a fee you have to charge yourself for coming. It will be consulted on how to implement it technically. It is important to remember that if the 'polluter pays' principle is to be implemented, there are some changes in our society that we need to be involved in. We'll take them, among other things. that air travel becomes a little more expensive. Then I would like to say that due to the policy of the previous civil government, which contributed to significantly stimulating competition in Norwegian aviation, air travel in the last 10-15 years has been significantly less expensive than it was in the 1990s and until more competition was provided in Norwegian aviation. So we've got lower prices. It costs less to fly than it has been for many years. But it is that the polluter has to pay, and then it becomes payment through a fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e319	In the revised national budget last year, there was a targeted tax relief for foreign aviation with larger tax-free allowances. The increase in charges contained in the year’s draft budget is a targeted increase in charges on domestic aviation, especially on many of the marginal routes. I understand that the Prime Minister thinks it is entirely right that many small places can now be in danger of losing their collective offer. To me, it's completely incomprehensible. It is also quite incomprehensible that the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the national budget, pushes the climate argument so clearly in front of him, because if you read the national budget, as the Prime Minister stands behind it, it says: ‘Extra measures in Norway for ETS will not contribute to the reduction of the total emissions of aviation in the EEA territory.’;» It's in the Prime Minister's national budget. Is it no longer valid? What has happened that makes what you presented a month ago, that it wouldn't have any effect, now all of a sudden it has an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e333	Fees have an effect, but that does not mean that it is the sum of allowances – but today there are so many allowances out there that it is likely to have an effect. In a tighter allowance market, what we're doing wouldn't have had such a big effect. But there's a discussion whether we're going to do enough at home, or whether we're going to do everything out. In the area by area, we can argue that we have less emissions in Norway, and therefore we should do more of this in Norway. For example, I'm registering. that today’s edition of the United Nations says that we should have more cows in Norway, because importing meat is more expensive or emits more emissions than others. We can argue for everything we do here, but it gives greater national emissions. If we are to take the emission reductions in the national climate of what is not in the quota areas, only transport and agriculture are left with some specific emissions. It would also be a challenge if we were to achieve the 40 pst target, because the two sectors don't even have 40 pst. of emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e340	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e343	The Prime Minister has traveled a great deal, including: in North Norway. I have recorded that the Prime Minister has said that North Norway is the growth region of the future, which will carry the country's well-being in the future. It seems to me to be a paradox now when the prospects of business are a competitive disadvantage, with increased costs and poorer collective services, because in practice the air services for North Norway and for some other regions are the only collective services available at longer distances. My question to the Prime Minister is: is not the Prime Minister at least a little concerned about the consequences of the new charge for business around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e350	An increased charge will increase the costs for those who pay it. At the same time, this government significantly lowers the tax burden. Company tax goes down by 2 percentage points in the budget. It gives tax relief to business. We're switching from red taxes to green taxes through this. That means we're doing what everyone in their party speeches says we're going to do: tax emissions more and tax labour and capital less to help create more jobs. I don't think District Norway has so much to worry about when it comes to this. I think you'll be able to find good solutions. If you use a couple of fewer flights, for example: using modern communication, you have earned back the money that this will normally cost. Then you have also done a very good climate adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e359	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e362	This is not just a fee. This is also about the fact that the sector exemption in order to have differentiated the employer’s fee has been dropped. We get an increase in the VAT on passenger transport. And now we also get a plane seat fee. I live in North Norway, and trains as an alternative are limited to half of my home country. North of Bodø, it's not a real alternative, and there's few other real alternatives when you're going over a certain distance. I record that the Prime Minister is not concerned about the consequences of this. I am. If I do not remember correctly, the bag charge was also presented as an air-conditioning charge. It was placed in the drawer – this is not to be done with it. But what is the climate effect of this? This occurred as a charge in the last rounds of negotiations, so what is the climate effect of the proposed fee? Why shouldn't you wait for the Green Tax Commission for this floating tax if it's part of a green conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e371	I want to draw attention to the fact that this is not an air fare – it is an air passenger charge. That means that it's for the passengers you have to pay the fee, not the aircraft seats. The fare was what the Workers' Party was for in the old days. It was introduced in 2001 at all major airports, including the two large ones in North Norway. At the time they were hot trailers to do this. It had to be a civil government to remove it that time, but now I realize that the Workers' Party is more for red taxes than they are for a tax change. In fact, the national assembly of the Workers' Party decided to charge air passenger charges, so I assume that it was not foreign to them, and that they also thought that they would tax air passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e378	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e381	It's almost unlikely to listen to Battle Violence Vedum and the so-called Green Center Party stand blazing over a green tax shift that way. It's the most powerful and most important tool we have to solve the climate crisis. I thought the Center Party was also busy not sending the bill to future generations, nor the climate bill. In this way I give tribute to the Prime Minister for very good answers. The airline tax is a prime example of a green tax change: it charges up emissions and reduces taxes and taxes on what we want more – in this context it applies to the climate-friendly aircraft. It's going to be 25 pst. reduction in the landing charge and aerodrome charges for aeroplanes using biofuels. We also use parts of the additional income to lower the income tax further, i.e. less taxes on work. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what is the prime minister's idea of setting up to get the maximum climate effect and the minimum negative effect on those parts of Norway that don't have alternative travel modes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e390	We believe that this must be a charge that we impose on air passengers, i.e. not necessarily on aircraft seats. We believe that this is a charge that means that in the areas where we have the purchase of airport services, we will have to compensate for some of that in those agreements, because there we have agreed on what to set the price of a ticket in total. This is an example of the dilemmas we face, including: when the report of the Green Tax Commission comes. Do we have to take seriously the fact that we are going to have a shift from red taxes to green taxes? Do we dare say that that means that someone gets a greater burden, simply because their activity pollutes more, or do we not dare? It's not going to be easy at a single point. There's going to be a lot of resistance, but if we're going to do the green shift, we're going to be able to get to a low-carbon society, and if we're going to take the commitments in Norway, we're going to have to do these grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e400	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e403	The government has brushed dust from an old SV proposal on air passenger charges. Although Jan Tore Sanner in his time called the proposal old-fashioned, fiscal spokesperson in the Right calls this good climate policy. Then I have to conclude that this is good, old-fashioned climate policy. The N.H.O. can't quite decide whether the proposal has zero effect, or whether it has enormous effect. That's why they're trying to claim both of them. That's how we have to cut the transport emissions by 40 pst. By 2030, we have to get more people to choose trains and fewer to fly. In my naivety, I thought that the point of an air fare was to get fewer people to fly. That's why I have a question to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister hope that the fee will have a zero or a high effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e410	I hope that the combination of the measures we are doing with this – which we have started now and which comes from more – means that we have a great impact on emissions. One of the effects is e.g.: what has been mentioned is that 25 pst has been added to the agreement on the Stortinget. reduction of landing charges if biofuels are used in the fuel. It will also mean less emissions. We're busy pointing out behavior. Perhaps someone who is flying today will consider travelling by other means or assessing whether the meeting can be conducted by modern means of communication – which we are building up across the country, and which we might all be able to use more at regular intervals. Then you get a little less air traffic out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e415	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e418	Air travel is perhaps the climate of the very least priced service in the entire Norwegian market. That is why it is very good that the government is stuck to this flight fee that has been proposed. It must be a very embarrassing day for all the representatives of the Labour Party and the Central Party. We hear how these two parties react to a fee equal to a pint of dart – at such a service. The problem with the levy – which can, of course, also be differentiated regionally, the rural problem is a reconstructed problem – may be that the NHO is completely wrong, that the levy will not work particularly, and that it needs to be much larger, as is the case with the Greens' Alternative State Budget. Is the Prime Minister open to assess the continued increase in the fare, so as to ensure that travel activity is reversed from aircraft and across from a collective location?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e425	I think the most important thing we should ensure in the future is that the fuel aircraft goes on, gets greener. It's actually among the things that are technologically possible in the future. If we can get greener fuel on the planes, the flight itself is not a challenge. Therefore, I believe that our objective must be to produce other types of fuels related to Norwegian aircraft – not just Norwegian, but all aircraft. We look at a range of such measures in the future. We have to do that in relation to the follow-up in the future of the Green Tax Commission, but we also have to implement our objective to 2030 of 40 p.m. reduction of emissions in Norway. We know that the transport sector is one of the areas where emissions have increased most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e430	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e433	What I think has been most interesting in this debate is how many people have forgotten what they themselves have preached: that we should have less taxes on work, less taxes on businesses and more on consumption. Even senior executives in different newspapers have apparently forgotten this assumption. Everyone has agreed on this. If this is the start of a debate related to what the Green Tax Commission can give us of input, there will be a lot of adjective use in the future – which I understand the NHO has become an expert. But the Prime Minister comes from Paris. What did the Prime Minister think of how to internationally think about taxes on labour versus taxes on consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e440	The negotiations in Paris I do not think has come to the stage of this round that the instruments are still so busy. The most important thing to do with this is not to subsidize environmentally harmful behaviour. We have now had a number of developing countries that have gone ahead with eliminating the subsidies they have on fossil fuels. Thank you very much. The Indonesian president said he had done it last year and his polls went straight down. It is well proven that this is not a good measure of poverty. It is the higher income groups and intermediate income groups that use most of this, including in developing countries. I think the main focus related to stimulation and money use is there. Otherwise, there is intense work, in which I believe it is a positive success, to have an agreement that sets out clear national targets for individual countries – as they have provided – but also mechanisms to strengthen it. But there are 14 exciting days for climate, what's happening in Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e447	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e450	The positive thing about the last question is that the economic incentive works. But as has been pointed out, the Prime Minister has been in Paris, and I assume that she also participates closely with the Norwegian delegation in the further work. There are great expectations of the role that Norway can play in the negotiations, both as an important player in finding the necessary compromises and solutions in the final phase of the negotiations, and as a driving force behind new initiatives. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister has participated in presenting several new initiatives in Paris and believes that one can do so with a credibility based on the budgetary agreement we have, which adds 420 million. kr extra into those parts of the budget relating to international environmental work. But there are three points: the Prime Minister has gone in for $216 million. kr into a new allowance buy-in fund, with the abbreviation TCAF, but some questions can be asked about this: When we now apply to new allowances buy-in, do you still think that this should be offset against emissions in Norway, the rich part of the world? Isn't that exactly what has been the problem in the past and that you don't achieve the goals? The left will be towards such a solution. The Prime Minister, together with Presidents Obama and Holland, has also taken steps to double the commitment to renewable energy in the poorer parts of the world by 2020. Is this a sign of a new policy, since that part of the government's proposal has been reduced by nearly 80 pst. in proposals over the last two years, and what is the starting point for the increase? So does one also agree that the green fund should be doubled if it ensures verified emission reductions against deforestation, and then the question is: is this new means, or is there a redistribution of forest resources, on which we have a commitment in any case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e462	There were many questions in one question, and I promise I won't be able to answer all of these. First, I would like to say that it is enough that Norway has a high credibility in what we do because we are among the largest «climate financers» internationally, but also because we have been active in these areas for many years. Although I am pleased with the budget now, I do not think the budgetary agreement is the only reason for this. Some of the measures we have now promoted are those which are not mentioned in the budget and in the budgetary context, but which are good. Let me start with the promises of energy: it's not really a question of what to do in developing countries, it's a question of all countries – developing countries and industrialised countries – promising to promise their own actions and their own research resources on renewable energy, on technologies that contribute to less energy use. So it's essentially a question of raising what we're doing, among other things. in the environmental technology system, the climate technology system, what we are doing through our long-term research plan, which can be transferred and commercialised next time by companies to enter other countries. The interesting thing about that initiative is the great private business dimension of that initiative to be able to realise things in developing countries after the technology has been invented. But it is not primarily the arrangements under the aid chapter this is about; this is our own commitment to it. So to the question of set-off, it's like you're now adding that every country has its own national obligations. Our commitment is 40 p.m., in cooperation with the EU. When we're going to have an implementation with the EU, that doesn't mean we're going to buy allowances outside to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e476	I thank you for the answer, and we will certainly find out more of the details of the contents of these initiatives later. But I'm going to look a little bit shorter: on November 24 there was a headline in the VG where it said that «Erna confirms that the climate agreement can go on». I have also been confronted in interviews later that the government has deviated from the objective of the climate agreement that we should reduce to 47 million tonnes of emissions by 2020. And then my question is: we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the government parties that we should strengthen the climate agreement. Does the Prime Minister continue to stand firm by the fact that a strengthening of the climate agreement involves not only new measures but that the measures will have an impact and that we will achieve the goal of reducing 47 million tonnes of emissions by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e483	It is also important to note that during the course of the day VG changed the title of the same statement that it might be “coming” to smoke, and it is slightly different. It is not that I have said that it is going on, but there are some of the major actions that are important in the future, for example. the large railway effort, the large collective effort, which will take place in the whole transport sector, which, on a large scale, will only start to be realised in terms of emissions after 2020. This is because we started later than we might have, with the goals we set in 2008. As I also say in that interview, we aim to try to achieve these goals. We are committed to having good instruments that can realise emission reductions now, but also that we are doing the right things in the long term. But we haven't given up the goal, and we're working in relation to it, and it's important to find good measures that work, which are also good in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e488	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e491	It is good that the Prime Minister stands by the objectives and also mentions the major changes needed in the collective field and investment in Norway to make the green shift. Next Wednesday is the Green Tax Commission report. From the questions here in the hall, I don't think we're going to get a trace of help from either the Center Party or the Workers' Party in order to do the green shift, and to be able to use the tax and tax system to achieve the changes we need in Norway. But the Prime Minister has promised that she will help us get the green shift, so it is we in this room who have to do this job. Next Wednesday is the Green Tax Commission report. My question is, how has the Prime Minister planned to put up the work related to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e500	As is natural, the Green Tax Commission report will be sent to the hearing, but we will continue to work on this. In the budget agreement, we have agreed that we will present a status report in the revision, and that the plan is to implement parts of what the four parties that have an agreement in this area had to agree on, towards the 2017 budget. That means that we want an inclusive process with the parties with which we have a budget agreement, with which we hope to have a budget agreement in 2017, too, to find ways to implement. But we also need to ensure that the proposals that they have are properly highlighted by various parties on the road, and that we take with us the whole will of Norwegian democracy and the ability to listen to people's input into the proposals that come. So it's not like I know a lot about the content today, but we know that what's out of the quota sector is essentially the agricultural and transport sector. And it's going to be hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e507	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e510	The Prime Minister traveled to Paris at the same time as proposing a major cut in international climate finance and saying that we almost did not reach our international climate commitments and meet the climate agreement. I hear the Prime Minister owes it to others, but it is the Prime Minister who is responsible and has had it for the last two years. Instead of blaming others and talking about things that have happened before, she should fold up her sleeves and say that we should do this. But that's the opposite that happens. We see a climate minister who does not have an impact on the government and who has to go to the Stortingen to get a majority. We've seen that in each budget. We saw it when we were going to pull the oil fund out of the coal, we've seen it by the Climate Act, and we've seen it in the electrification of the Utsira to mention some of the things. The Prime Minister himself says that it is difficult to stand up for the climate in a government where not everyone is so concerned about it. With this as a hindrance, the Prime Minister sees that the globe's climate is served by a new settlement in Norway on how to achieve the goal of cutting 40 pst. by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e517	I understand it is unpleasant for the Workers' Party to be reminded of the fact that when this government joined, we did not come to the covered table in the climate area. There was a lack of 8 million tonnes of the commitments and reductions we were going to have, and it was not enough to reach them either. This government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has helped us to take more action. We have increased the environmental technology fund more than the Workers' Party was willing to give us when we negotiated. I'm glad they want to add more, but they wouldn't when we negotiated. We see that companies make large investments because there is more money available for the investments they make. We're turning around to create a biodiesel market and clean diesel fuels. We did that through the budgetary agreement that we had last year, in an area that went back one step under the previous government because of the changes they made within the charging system. I understand it's unpleasant. The government is ambitious. We have even more ambitious partners at Stortinget, and then we get far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e522	Rigmor Andersen Eide for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e525	The Prime Minister has just been to Paris, and I have noticed that she was in the noise and opened the corner and opened the purse. That is positive: more money for rainforests, green climate funds and climate ratio. It is good, and it is important that Norway takes the lead in this area. Does the Prime Minister think that it is possible to buy out of the crisis, that we can thus continue as before, or is there also a need for drastic measures at home to cut Norwegian emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e531	The government believes we should cut emissions in Norway. The government came, after agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to the Storting last year with an ambition to cut 40 pst. of our emissions by 2030. So we already have cooperation in the Great Britain on the objectives up to 2030. This will happen, not through the purchase of allowances outside Europe, but through mechanisms that help cut emissions at home and mechanisms within the EU – within a closed system. The level of our commitments in the non-quota sector will then be negotiated with the EU over the next year. They base their burden-sharing principle on this. We're going to have this with us into all the big issues we're going to deal with over the next two years, for example. National Transport Plan and Energy Communication – and we come with the Green Tax Commission. There are very many of these major areas that will then help to make an effort to do more about the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e538	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e541	The follow-up to Paris is becoming important and demanding. It is incredibly important that it is based on professionally based considerations and not just on symbolism policies. I have to say that I am surprised that the Prime Minister in previous vocabulary has chosen such an easy entry into some of the issues, and thus jumps over key principles. The right has been concerned that we are part of the EU ETS, and aviation is part of the EU ETS. There are too many allowances in your system. The solution is to tighten the number of allowances, not to impose charges on sectors that are part of the ETS. The government itself says in the national budget that this will have no climate impact, precisely because aviation is part of the quota sector. On the other hand, one has not assessed what could have had climate impact, namely charging flights outside the EEA territory or fuel. It has not been evaluated. Can the Prime Minister not only acknowledge that this is a purely fiscal charge combined with the purpose of meeting an urgent budgetary need?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e550	We have imposed a flat fee on all air travel, including those travelling outside the EEA territory, into the agreement at Stortinget. We have done that because it is an action we can do quickly, it is an action that can be implemented without major ESA issues being linked to it. All other forms – and we have discussed them – will be longer and more difficult. It may well be that in the future we can imagine other solutions to this, and as I said, the most important thing is to produce forms of fuel that help reduce emissions. That's one of the solutions. But this is a charge that – as the allowance system is today – will have an impact on emissions, and that will apply to all trips out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e555	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e558	The National Climate Goals of the Storting stated – as has just been mentioned here – that Norwegian CO2 emissions are to be cut from today’s 53.8 million tonnes to a maximum of 47 million tonnes in 2020. The Prime Minister announced in the VG last week that the ‘climate agreement can be cancelled’, as it said. I think the answer she gave to the representative Elvestuen underlies that it seems that it is what the Prime Minister thinks it will do. The impression is that the Prime Minister is not so concerned about the year 2020, but in the interview with the VG, one can clearly get the impression that the Prime Minister believes the goal can be achieved shortly after that. Then I expect the Prime Minister to be aware that what she herself has communicated to Stortinget is that she is not prepared to achieve the climate agreement's objectives in 2030. The forecasts in the 2016 government budget estimate that emissions in 2030 are estimated to be 52.5 million tonnes. In other words, while Germany has now cut by 27 pst. Since 1990, the Prime Minister is currently running counter to not wanting to cut anything in 40 years. That's why we say that the climate agreement is about to become a loss of climate. Norway’s climate change target for 2020 is not just a few years late – as the Prime Minister suggests – we are now expected not even to be in target ten years later. Therefore, it is important to know when the Prime Minister sees that it is likely that Norway’s climate targets for 2020 will be achieved, since she has more than suggested, both in the VG and here in Stortinget today, that they will not be achieved by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e570	I assume that the forecast referred to here is the forecast based on measures and Norwegian climate policy up to the revised national budget 2014. We will have updated revisions of this in the future. Many measures have been taken here. There are also many corporate investments that contribute to smaller emissions in the future. It is more a judgment on the forecasts of the red-green time than it is on the actions of this government, for one does not have the measures in the budget for the current year, in the budgetary agreement for the current year, in the revised national budget for the current year, the measures in this budget, and what has been agreed in the budgetary agreement. We've done a lot with respect to, among other things. Fuels, cars and the transport sector, which, in our opinion, could be a good contribution to this. But then it's a challenge that big investments in public transport take longer. They will only be realised between 2020 and 2030 and will have a greater impact than they will before 2020. We're working on the goal of achieving the 2020 targets, but that's how we got into this with a backlog -- with a forecast where 8 million tons were missing -- from the period of the red-green government. I understand that it is uncomfortable for the representative to hear it, but it was the fasit after the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e579	The only thing unpleasant is to hear a government that has no answer other than to repeat the time's most worn-out speech point, namely that of the 'covered table'. We have heard that so many times now that it is time for the Prime Minister, at least for the sake of change, to come up with another concept, also because it is wrong. The Prime Minister has come to the table. Climate change has shown what action Norway needs to take to achieve its 2020 targets. After all, there is no one other than the government itself who believes that a quantum leap has been made in the last year that makes us now suddenly to be in a significantly different situation than the one that was the starting point when these projections were made. The most eloquent example is that in the sector of the Prime Minister himself, the transport sector, the government does nothing, but is sometimes pressured by the Left, fortunately. Last week, when we asked the Minister for the Environment if she could mention one single measure to increase the proportion of zero-emission cars that the government has initiated, she could not mention a single one. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she can mention one such measure that the government has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e586	With the way we cooperate with our cooperation parties, it is so that we, among other things, has had a good working group who has worked on how to tax in connection with the one-off fee. We will have a good working group working on issues related to the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission. Then it's like many of these measures we do four games in common, because we've agreed on these things together. When we contribute – with the budgetary agreement and the budget we have – to even better conditions for other and new types of fuels, it also helps to reduce emissions in the future. Our work is not that we do not sit and talk to the four parties that have agreed to strengthen the climate agreement – we do. We are strengthening the climate agreement in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e593	It opens for follow-up questions – first Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e596	I also note that the Prime Minister is not able to provide a single example of initiatives that the government has taken to follow up what the government sees as a goal. If the Prime Minister had been a little fresh, she would have quoted her climate policy spokesman in DN on Saturday, who said that Norway had to ‘pollinate more to bring down global emissions’. It's probably a message that had created a good mood in Paris. Therefore, I assume that one agrees with Nikolai Astrup, and does not believe that he should take care of his mouth. Therefore, I ask: In the Right World – how much does Norwegian emissions have to increase in order for world emissions to decrease sufficiently – to reach the two-degree target?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e604	I understand that it is a rhetorical question, but this is a political point we hear in many situations: that emissions in Norway are less of something, and therefore we should produce more of it. Today there is pressure in the Nation on the agricultural sector in Norway that we should produce more red meat in Norway, because it gives less emissions than if we buy it from other countries. I think Nikolai Astrup's good point is that we're good at technology, and we're good at being effective in production methods. In some areas, if we produce more, it has a total impact on world emissions. But there is a bit of justice in this, which I am concerned about -- that there will be some countries that are not as effective or equally good, that will experience it as relatively unfair that a very high technologically developed country, which is therefore perhaps producing more efficiently, would take over all production in this area. That is why I do not necessarily agree that this is the answer, but in some areas we have to be more good at looking for the effect than at self-spipping in the Norwegian climate debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e611	Then we open for the next follow-up question, which is from Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e614	It surprises me that the Prime Minister, on repeated calls to say what the government will do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, owes it to others. Unlike today’s government, which has made electricity more expensive and gasoline and diesel cheaper, it has been important for the Workers’ Party to pursue policies that contribute to lower emissions, including: in the railway sector where we increased the investment by over 400 pst. In the 2012 climate agreement, with the exception of the Progress Party, all parties on the Stortinget agreed that by 2020 – i.e. in four years’ time – Norway would cut global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. The Prime Minister is now cancelling the 2012 climate agreement, and the government’s proposal for a State budget states that Norwegian emissions are higher and that they continue to increase. Is it difficult for the Prime Minister to take the lead in a more offensive climate action and an initiative for a new climate settlement when, as she herself says, it is difficult to stand for the climate in a government where no one is so concerned about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e625	The Ministry of Transport can now show that with the decisions we have taken, we are far ahead of what the Workers' Party proposed on the railways in its national transport plan. This is one of the areas in which we have invested more money – almost so much money that it may be a challenge to use them rationally for the next year with the bets now made after the agreement on the Storting. We have increased the Climate Technology Fund, which the Workers' Party would not increase any more when we negotiated with them. I have the advantage of having been in two climate negotiations, and I have never experienced the Workers' Party as being forward-looking. I've experienced them coming back, not willing to do a lot in these areas, and most concerned that we're going to do a lot out and not much at home. It is my experience after sitting and negotiating two climate agreements with the Workers' Party. This government has not canceled the 2020 targets, but we have said that they are harder to achieve because we do not have the things we agreed on in the 2008 conciliation, among other things. because the red-green government didn't implement everything they were supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e632	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e635	I want to follow the track that has been the subject of the last main questions, precisely the relationship to climate. It seems to me that the prime objective of the Prime Minister's climate policy is to avoid a broad climate settlement in the UK. There is no doubt that the road to 2030 and the emission reductions that we absolutely have to implement and that we have undertaken to implement until then will be demanding. The government has indicated no direction until 2030. They have not materialised the measures or shown which way to go. Therefore, it is quite essential to know whether the government intends to make concrete progress when the Paris Summit is over, the road for Norway up to 2030 – for so far we have not had the opportunity to see what the government is thinking about. I understand that it is difficult for the Prime Minister to recognise that it will be an advantage to create broad consensus and unlock the measures by 2030. But I think the fear of the Prime Minister may be based on the fear that one will have an open discussion, and that the government will show its true self, where they are actually the party that has the most extreme climate position every single harvest in the form of its state budgets. They have not submitted one state budget where the cooperating parties or the Stortinget or environmental organisations have said this was a good government budget, on behalf of the climate. So it's a little bit amazing to hear the answers. So I ask: does the Prime Minister think it would be an advantage for Norway, when it comes to achieving greenhouse gas reductions by 2030, that there is a broad consensus on the measures proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e646	I think it's great if we have a broad consensus on the measures we're proposing, but the first round we had today, I don't know if gave great hope that there's going to be a large width around them. The discussion on air transport and their contribution to emissions also provided a picture that some batches do not take over, for example. the polluter pays. Now it's like we have two climate settlements behind us. The first climate agreement and the first climate communication were almost without action and became much better through the negotiations at Stortinget, with measures and more ambitious objectives. But many of those measures took a long time before they even started. The next climate agreement also had to be tightened up in Stortinget, and so we've done a lot of it now, and we've done more, among other things. in the case of peat restoration and other measures which are not clearly contained in the climate agreement. In the spring, we had the big message related to the future objectives and what we have reported to Paris and the Paris process. Then we have laid the foundations through a broad majority of the Grand Duchy, which has joined the 2030 objectives, the method of cooperation with the European Union, and the five points and areas on which we are actually going to have the cuts. And then the government is working so that in the individual cases that come to Stortinget, we're going to show that we're on our way. This means that the national transport plan should reflect the need to do something in the transport sector, that the budget should do so with regard to taxes and taxes when it comes to the harvest, and that when the energy message comes, it will be fully possible for the Storting to be involved in the discussion on the different parts. It is, of course, when the sectoral plans are put forward in the future for the different areas, it is important to implement the climate objectives – it is not by creating a separate document that is being discussed independently of what are the sectoral plans. And that's what the government has been thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e657	All first: By 2020, which is the closest target, the Prime Minister — from the last climate settlement was concluded, in 2012 — has taken responsibility for climate policy in Norway for two out of three years. It is a significant liability that cannot be depreciated. It is the government that is responsible for whether Norway reaches its 2020 targets, and no one other than the government. That's the one. In the case of the polluter-pays principle, we agree. It is therefore amazing that the government is increasing the charge on renewable energy as electricity while keeping petrol and diesel taxes low. Then you can't quite see the outlines of the government's green tax commission, but on the basis of the fact that there is a great deal of consensus in the Grand Duchy, I ask again: will the Prime Minister take an initiative to create the road by 2030 through a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, and can we expect the Prime Minister to take an initiative for a new climate settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e664	When we are finished negotiating with the EU on the question of how to take out the composition of our 40 pst target, we come back with a case to the Stortinget that will form the basis for the discussion on how to implement it. It'll take some time, and on the way we're going to do a lot in this government in terms of climate. Many major sectoral areas are being addressed, such as, as I have mentioned, the national transport plan with the ambitions for what will happen in the future. When Stortinget discussed our goals for 2030, the Workers' Party proposed that there should be a separate case now, after the Paris meeting. It fell. The majority of the population agreed with the government that we should actually bring forward the EU decision and our agreement with the EU first, and then take the round that is attached to it. Then I hope that we will be able to create a broad basis, like a settlement, whether it is a broad basis for future emission reductions and the future policy to be associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e673	It opens for one follow-up question – from Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e676	I'm always worried when I hear what the Prime Minister is saying now, that it's going to be very difficult to achieve the 2020 target, but reaching the 2030 or 2050 target – in a way – is completely unproblematic. The truth is, the more difficult it is to create a zero-emission society in 2050 than it is to cut big already next year. So the budget we saw now was the first government budget to come after the Storting adopted the 2030 targets. You would think that this is where you were going to get out of the road by 2030. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister presents a budget that will increase emissions. So I want to follow up on Terje Aasland's question about a climate settlement in Stortinget. It's not just the Workers' Party that says that this government represents an extreme point. Trine Skei Grande has said that the climate minister has left his entire job to the Left. Ola Elvesuen has said that the Prime Minister could not have traveled to Paris with credibility if it had not been for the Left. Does the Prime Minister agree that a new climate settlement is necessary to achieve our 2030 objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e684	I appreciate the Left's contribution to our work also in the field of climate, but it's probably a little political self-interest in promoting that kind of claim. We had a pretty good conscience about our budget, even if we had gone to Paris before the deal. We had good initiatives, and we feel that we get a lot of feedback that we're just doing a lot right. Our commitment to climate technologies and our commitment to research, the promises we make in those areas, are at the heart of this major innovation initiative related to the renewable sector. So the government has a lot to be proud of and is going to be it too in the future – and we're going to grab it. So it's going to be hard to achieve the 2050 targets, it's going to be hard to achieve the 2030 targets, and we're going to have to make changes in our tough society. But there's also time to get technology, and it's important to have the right incentives for it. There we have done a lot, through the cooperation we have with the parties on the Stortinget, but also through our own policies within, for example. the transport sector in the last few years — unlike in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e693	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e705	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and the President will present the electronic question list to that effect. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister for Industry, will be raised by the representative Odd Omland. Question 9, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e720	‘The CO2 tax affects competition between renewable and fossil energy. The national climate target of the size indicates that emissions are to be no more than 47 million. tonnes for 2020. Does the Council of State consider it necessary to make pollution more expensive in the coming years, and what level of climate pollution charges is needed to achieve Norway’s climate targets for 2020?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e735	Let me first take the opportunity to congratulate the representative, Serigstad Valen, on the Vice-Chairman's office in SV. So to the answer: the climate challenge is global and needs to be solved globally. Norway is involved in negotiating a new climate agreement in Paris. We are working to achieve a long-term global goal and to contribute to increasing efforts over time. Like other countries, we have reported in advance an indicative emission obligation that is in line with the UN two-degree target. The government conducts offensive climate policies and reinforces climate reconciliation. Climate policy is also strengthened in the 2016 budget. Among other things, the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund has increased significantly more than was foreseen in the climate agreement. The green shift effort has been stepped up through increased support for climate and environmental technologies. In addition, the reduced rate of the electricity charge for shipping will stimulate the transition to electricity. The climate agreement was concluded in 2008 and renewed in 2012. The 2008 agreement states that it is realistic to have a target of reducing domestic emissions by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2020, including a contribution from forest uptake. The reduction was seen in relation to the emission projections in the 2007 budget. The Climate Action Group has subsequently interpreted this as an emission level of 47 million tonnes in 2020. The basis for the assessment of the possibility of domestic emission reductions by the climate agreement was SFT’s action analyses, existing instruments and sectoral climate action plans. The sectoral objectives were based on estimates which could need to be reconsidered if changes in future forecasts, costs, technology developments or other changed assumptions were to be provided for. In the 2012 climate agreement, the majority noted that slower progress than expected in the development of climate-friendly technologies, higher costs of domestic climate action, higher immigration, stronger economic growth and greater oil sector emissions would have an impact on the achievement of climate objectives. The majority also said that these conditions do not change the ambition to reduce national emissions. The comparison further showed that the costs of implementing measures in Norway were substantially adjusted. In addition to participation in the EU ETS, climate and environmental taxes are an important instrument in climate policy. The government put down last year's Green Tax Commission. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess whether and how changes in climate and environmental taxes can contribute to lower greenhouse gas emissions, a better environment and good economic development. The committee will present its report next week. I will not in any way advance the content of it, but I would like to remind you that the government parties and cooperation parties in the 2016 budget agreement agree on cooperation on the follow-up of the Green Tax Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e755	I would like to thank the Council of State for its congratulations, and I would also like to thank you for a timely response. Environmental technology is a great asset, but it is far from sufficient to achieve the climate objectives set by the Stortinget. The price of emissions must be raised. So I almost have to ask again: what does the Council of State think that the level of CO2 emissions must be in order for us to achieve Norway’s climate target for 2020? Is it the case that the Council of State has to wait until the Green Tax Commission has presented its proposal before we can get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e763	Norway is pursuing an ambitious climate policy, and the cross-sectoral economic instruments in the form of levies and participation in the European quota system are the main instruments of Norwegian climate policy. Over 80 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are covered by the allowances and/or CO2 tax – a CO2 tax proposed by the Syse Government in 1990 and introduced the following year. According to the OECD, Norway has some of the highest charges in the world on fossil energy. There is also a variation in greenhouse gas charges in Norway, and it is precisely to get an overall approach to these issues that we have found it right to put down the Green Tax Commission. Having said that, I believe that there are many different instruments to achieve climate objectives, through taxes and taxes, but also through a wide range of other instruments we have, through climate technology, research and other measures that we have taken during the functioning of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e776	But then I will take the Council of State to the floor: can I then understand how I can get a concrete answer to where the Council of State believes that the level of CO2 tax must lie at any time after the Green Tax Commission has presented its work? Can I, for example, Does the Council ask the same question again in January and get a clear, concrete answer to what the CO2 tax will be in the years to come in order for Norway to achieve its climate objectives in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e787	The representative has to ask the Minister of Finance questions right when he wants to. And then he will probably get a complex response, simply because I think it is necessary to use a wide range of instruments to achieve the ambitious climate objectives that Norway has set itself. So it's not like we're solving all the challenges of CO2 taxation alone, we're solving them not least by stimulating new technologies, through research and through the way transport works in our country. Therefore, I believe that we should keep up the momentum by employing more instruments, and the more positive instruments we use, the better, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e799	‘The oil industry is the sector that emits the most greenhouse gases in this country and has almost doubled its emissions since 1990. Without stronger instruments to cut emissions in the oil sector, there is little realism in achieving the National Climate Goals of the EEA by 2020. Governments are responsible, inter alia, for emission permits to industry, where environmental requirements may be imposed. Could the Council of State mention one proposal that the Government has promoted that significantly cuts the emissions of the oil industry to 2020?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e806	Norway has a long history of severe climate action in the petroleum sector. For example, the CO2 tax was proposed by the government of Syse as early as 1990 and introduced the following year. From 2008 onwards, the sector became subject to allowances and simultaneously pays CO2 tax. From 1997 onwards, all new developments have been required to provide an overview of the amount of energy and costs associated with the use of power from countries rather than gas turbines. These instruments have meant that the emissions from the sector are lower than they would otherwise have been. In 2008, the petroleum industry set an overall energy efficiency improvement target of 1 million tonnes of CO2 between 2008 and 2020. Statoil's share of this was 800000 tonnes. This has already been achieved, and Statoil has set an even more ambitious target: more than 400000 tonnes by 2020. The government is also following up on measures. State Enova has established a programme to support energy management and technology development that can reduce energy demand and greenhouse gas emissions both for industry and for petroleum activities. The first petroleum contract was concluded in 2014 and is about Oseberg. In addition, this government has greatly increased the allocation of the Climate and Energy Fund and the environmental technology system. There is a broad political consensus that we should continue to conduct profitable oil and gas activities in Norway. I am concerned that companies are choosing energy-efficient low-emission solutions. Then the government is right to stick to the strict climate requirements and arrangements in Enova. It gives incentives for emission reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e826	In the State budget, the government informs that with today’s use of energy, emissions are expected to increase by 2020. This is in contradiction with the Storting climate target, which says that emissions should be reduced to 47 million tonnes. There has been some uncertainty in recent days, but I interpret the government so that it still intends to try to achieve the Storting climate target for 2020. It is difficult to claim that it is directed at 47 million tonnes without increasing the use of instruments against the industry in Norway that both emits the most, almost doubled emissions since 1990, and is also expected to increase emissions by 2020. Therefore, I wonder: What does the Council of State intend to do in the government's last two years to cut emissions into the oil industry and actually try to achieve the Great Britain's climate goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e833	The last projection of where we end up with the number of tonnes in 2020 is based on policies up to and including the revised national budget for 2014. What the government, together with the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party, has done for the budget in 2015, and what we do for 2016 is not included in the projections. As the Prime Minister also repeatedly said during the spontaneous Question Time, we are working towards the goal set by the climate agreement by 2020. But we've also set goals towards 2030, which is even more ambitious. The Norwegian oil and gas sector has the highest CO2 tax of all. Then we also follow up on giving Enova more money, so that the oil industry can also work together to reduce emissions – in addition to the CO2 tax and the quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e846	According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the identified reserves of oil, coal and gas contain between five and nine times as much CO2 as the carbon budget allows us to discharge if we want to prevent heating above 2 degrees. The world has already found more fossil energy than the climate can withstand. Norway, as it is known, has been producing petroleum for a long time. We've taken up a lot, and we've become rich. When climate projections indicate that so much fossil energy must remain on the ground, there is also a question of how much responsibility Norway should take. I wonder: is it now poor country's turn to extract fossil energy, or does the Council of State think Norway has the right to extract as much fossil energy as we can? If so, who will leave his fossil energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e858	We know that the world is going to need oil and gas for some decades to come. The main challenge for the climate now is to replace coal with gas. Then in Norway we have the highest CO2 tax, where the sector is also part of the quota system, and we have among the world's most stringent environmental requirements. We are now sitting in these days working to get an ambitious climate agreement in place in Paris that will cover all the countries of the world, knowing that if we succeed in doing so, there will in the long run be a price for emissions that will make some of what we have of fossil energy in Norway, not be profitable to extract. We are the country in the world that manages to be an oil and gas producer while we are really working for a good climate agreement in Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e872	Let me wish the Minister for Climate and Environment back to Norway for a little break from the negotiations in Paris! ‘Riche land has promised at least 100 billion. dollars annually in climate finance for poor countries by 2020. The promise has been very important for the trust between rich and poor countries. Norway has been a driver for fulfilling the commitments. Now the Norwegian environmental aid is cut to poor countries by 1 billion. kr for 2016. The cut covers rainforest conservation, renewable energy and sustainable development. What a reaction that is the government will trigger in the climate negotiations by cutting environmental aid to poor countries by 1 billion. kr?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e881	Increased climate finance for poor countries is necessary for the effective implementation of the new climate agreement. Norway is at the top of the world in this field. The forest plot is our most important contribution. Due to the exceptional situation of increased asylum arrivals, we have had to re-priorities in the budget. Of course, it's not easy. But I can assure you that this is done wisely. The Norwegian commitments given to forest countries to pay for reduced greenhouse gas emissions from forests will also be honoured in 2016 if forest countries deliver. We have already announced contributions of 1.6 billion. SEK to the Green Climate Fund in the period 2015-2018. It's one of the highest contributions in the world measured per capita. In Paris on Monday, the Prime Minister announced that we would increase significantly our contribution to the Green Climate Fund. If the fund ensures verified emission reductions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, the total increase will be equivalent to a doubling of our contribution by 2020. This means that we will double the contribution from 400 million. kr per year to 800 mill. kr per year. The government has also launched other new initiatives in Paris. We are participating in a new fund for climate action in developing countries, in cooperation with the World Bank. That's what we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going We have signed a new forest agreement with Colombia, which will facilitate the conservation of the rainforest in this wonderful country for future generations. We're going to extend our cooperation with Brazil until 2020. And we announced that Peru gets its first payment in forest cooperation, $5 million. dollar. So, if the representative Solhjell is wondering what reactions the government triggered in Paris, I can answer: we triggered joy, optimism and increased faith that, through cooperation between developing countries and countries, we can achieve a climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e894	I fully recognise that it was necessary to allocate resources from other fields of the budget to deal with the particularly large influx of refugees and asylum seekers. In many areas of the budget, however, the budget is in defiance of it, while in some fields it was cut, and a cut of quite a large amount of money on the environment and energy. So I think it's worth noting. So I'm not in doubt that it was joyous in Paris when an extra promise was made in the years to come, but the more alarming it is that one should cut in 2016. It is good that many countries are now making promises towards 2020. But I can imagine that it's not just Norway, it's a whole lot of European countries that are in the same situation and cut in development aid, especially against climate and the environment. Can I ask the Council of State: Do they believe in isolation – I understand that it doesn't rage everything – that they cut it more likely with a good climate agreement or less likely?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e901	As I referred to in my first answer, the reactions we got through the launches we did were joy and optimism, and one was happy that Norway is a country to trust. We have been for a long time by promising long-term climate finance. Not least in the climate and forest project, which is well known by the representative of Solhjell, long-term sustainability is important. It has taken time for some countries to work in their own country to put it into practice that we can now pay for results. The fact that we can say that we do not go from any of the agreements concluded in 2016 is important. The fact that, to date, together with Germany and the United Kingdom, we were able to announce a new investment in Colombia was a very important signal, and also that we could now make the first payments to Peru. The other country sees that Norway is to be trusted within this. Maybe that's the most important signal we can give.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e906	The international negotiating meeting where a person is not met with joy and optimism when someone promises money five years in advance, I don't know. But I believe in isolation that it would have strengthened Norway's chances of contributing positively to an agreement if we increased our promises in 2016 than if we significantly reduced them, as well as for some other European countries, although, of course, it's not the whole thing. But let me then ask another question, about energy more specifically. It is about 2.7 billion people in the world who feed on smoke-filled hamlets or fires. It causes serious health damage, as well as a significant contribution, not least in Africa, to deforestation. 1.3 billion people don't have access to the stream. So now the government is cutting over 600 million. kr for renewable energy. How will the government make sure that a stronger effort does not weaken it from the Norwegian side in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e913	What Norway was also involved in launching in Paris in addition to these climate and forest projects was the new international climate initiative called Task Innovation, where we are just going to work with other countries on more clean energy investment. The fact that there we have promised to double our efforts to get more of that is important. In all the meetings I have attended in 2015, India has repeatedly said that what they need to do is to transfer technology. The fact that India was also part of this international climate initiative, called Task Innovation, makes me think that the kind of work is going to mean more in the future. I also think it was nice that Bill Gates, who was at the launch, said in this connection that Norway is always generous and helps the poorest countries. That's what we want to do in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e924	‘In the GAP report of the Environment Directorate of March 2014, with subsequent updates, the government was presented with the recipe for achieving the Storting Climate Goals to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions from today’s 53,8 to 45 to 47 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. Why has the Council of State and the Government not followed the Eco-Directorate of State, but instead deliberately failed to implement important measures to increase emissions by 2020?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e934	I believe that the representative Holmås should note two interesting aspects of the report. First of all, the report of the Environment Directorate does not provide a recommendation on how to move forward in order to meet the 2020 target. The report assesses the distance to the target and looks at possible measures that can be taken quickly to achieve the target. Second, the distance is interesting. The report shows the status of when this government took over the management of climate policy from the previous government. It showed a gap up to the climate targets of 8 million tonnes. That is why it was good that a new majority and a new government came in 2013. This means that we could implement stronger climate action than what the representative Holmås’ own government did. We have implemented many new measures that will have an impact by 2020 and follow up the report in the work we are doing. We have spent more money on the Climate Technology Fund far beyond the consensus in the climate agreement. The report points out, among other things: on the target of keeping emissions from new passenger cars below 85 grams of CO2 per km in 2020. This goal now seems to be within reach. The Environment Directorate points to the objective of taking passenger transport growth in large cities with collective, pedestrian and bicycles. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we are filling in the reward scheme for public transport in larger urban areas. The government is also engaged in negotiations on urban environmental agreements that will contribute to long-term emission reductions. According to the Environment Directorate, increased turnover of biofuels can reduce emissions. The turnover requirement for biofuels in road traffic has increased from 3.5 to 5.5 pst. Furthermore, the report points to the phase-out of oil boilers and to the increased production and use of biogas. We phase out oil fires as intended, and we presented a national bioga strategy a year ago that has been followed up with new instruments and money in the budget. The government is also counting on the development of a full-scale carbon capture and storage facility. The ambition is for an installation to be in place by 2020. In view of this, it is strange to get criticism not to follow up the report. Of course, we're not done with the climate job. But we are in the process, and emissions in Norway have stabilised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e956	There's two things I have to point out here. The first is that it's not right what the council says nothing was done from the red-green government. On the contrary, emissions projections for 2020 have moved down from 59,2 million tonnes in 2007 to 54 million tonnes. In other words, they were almost halfway downhill towards the goal of 47 million tons. During the period in which the Council of State has held, this has not moved downwards either as evidenced in the forecast in the State budget or in the report presented by the Environment Directorate itself in June 2013. The second is that all the measures taken here by Sundtoft that came from this report — fuel oil, biofuels — were either contained in the 2012 climate agreement or were forced into budgetary negotiations by the Christian People's Party and the Left. For this reason, I ask: why do the initiatives to implement the measures contained in the report not come from the Council of State Tine Sundtoft?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e965	Firstly, the last projections made are based on policies up to and including the revised national budget for 2014. We have not made projections that contain what the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, has got in place in 2015. Nor is it revised for 2015, or what we now get in place in the 2016 budget. There was a gap of 8 million tons when we took over. That is why the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has said that there is a need to strengthen climate reconciliation. And that's what we've done. That is why we have focused more on public transport, more on rail, more on the environmental technology system and more on the climate and energy fund. We're going into the area by area and doing more, because we're working to achieve the climate deal in 2020, and we've also set ambitious targets for 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e972	In the Environment Directorate's update of forecasts and the latest updates of all new policies, there is no need to achieve the climate agreement's reduction target of 47 million tonnes. It will not be achieved by 2020, nor will it be achieved by 2030, as it is today. Last week, I asked the Council of State for a good response in the Environment DG's updated report on how to reach the zero-emission society – i.e. the low-emission society – by 2030 with further reductions, which will also have an impact for 2020. It is necessary to provide for a greater share of zero-emission cars in the transport sector as a crucial and important objective. Last week, the Council of State had not presented a single concrete proposal from the government. Is it so that the Council of State can now point to any proposals that the government has made to get more zero-emission cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e979	As I also told the representative Eidsvoll Holmås last week, it is this government that, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, agreed on the principles for the conversion of the car charges. We did so through the revised national budget for 2015. Some of the changes are now being made in 2016. We have also informed that we will do more when the Green Tax Commission comes. Changing the car charges to make it pay to buy cars that emit less, a conversion with more emphasis on emissions and less on weight and effect, is a conversion that this government initiated, and that we have received support from the Left and Christian People's Party to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e990	‘More than 100 countries require global warming not to exceed 1,5 degrees. The background is that the so-called 2-degree target has a major negative impact on these countries. What is Norway’s position related to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e997	Combating climate change is one of the most important challenges of our time. That is why 190 countries are now negotiating a new climate agreement. On Friday I went back to Paris to follow the end of the negotiations. The aim of Norway is to reach the most legally binding agreement possible. I've been saying it for a long time, I'm an optimistic realist. The vote on the opening yesterday was positive, although many obstacles remain before we can agree on a new agreement. In the UN process we're part of, the 2 degree goal is an important concept. But neither 2 degrees nor 1.5 degrees is a magic number. What is important is to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible and as quickly as possible. Now in Paris, we're a pusher to include a maximum temperature measurement. Not all countries agree to drop such a target. The last main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change contains a number of scenarios for the best way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. None of these scenarios are in line with an increase of 1.5 degrees. This illustrates that the 2-degree goal is considered ambitious. However, Norway is open to reference to 1.5 degrees as an important temperature limit and to formulate the 2-degree target as a minimum target. Norway considers that the new climate agreement should specify that the temperature rise should be limited to ‘well below 2 degrees’. In other words, we're going to do everything we can, and not stop even if the 2 degree goal is within reach. But once again, it is certainly not all countries that agree to drop such a target. In addition, Norway – we have worked on this for a long time – is working to include a long-term climate neutrality emission target in the agreement in 2050. Such a goal is offensive, but will be the goal that will make us the best able to possibly also reach 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1012	I thank you for the answer and will follow up with a question that is related to this, namely the Norwegian position during the climate negotiations. During his participation in Paris, the Prime Minister stated that her objective is to receive Norwegian climate allowances for the Norwegian rain forest start rate. We can see that this proposal has met both with the amazement and with the rejection of the President-in-Office of the negotiations with Brazil, who said yesterday: ‘There is nothing to consider at all.’ And it's not so hard to understand that Brazil doesn't think it's okay for Norway to get emission rights to burn fossil energy because Brazil is able to stop its own deforestation. The question that then comes up is quite simply: Was Norway’s main partner for forest conservation, Brazil, informed that Norway came with this event during the climate negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1024	If it had resulted in the correctness of what has been in the newspapers in the last few days, that we have asked for it, I understand very well that Brazil reacted. But that's not right. What the prime minister has said is that we want to double the support for the green fund, assuming that a person receives verification of emissions into the green fund. Then we've also been involved in launching a new fund. We have said that market mechanisms are important in the new agreement. It is important if we are to increase our ambitions beyond 40 p.m., or if we do not get an agreement with the EU. Unfortunately, this is messed up in such a way that it appears quite selfish – I almost want to use that word – from Norway, but that is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1031	Then my next question will be whether that means that the government is quite clear that it does not want an allowance system where you mix fossil emissions and emissions from deforestation in the same quota system, because that is what is the starting point for it to react here. Allowances are, of course, the seventh and last emission allowances. Emission rights are something we want to make sure that we can continue to pollute. The poor country fears that they will end up in a situation where they are asked to leave the forest, so that rich countries can continue to use fossil energy. There are considerable technical objections to mixing fossil emissions with forest emissions in the same allowance system – because forests are important carbon stockers, but also unsafe, right? If we pay to preserve the forest, and thus require emission rights for fossil energy, we have no guarantee yet that the forest will stand in the years to come. So my question is whether the Minister for Climate and Environment is opposed to an allowance system where these different types of emissions are mixed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1036	When Norway has been talking for a long time about the importance of a global climate target and about climate neutrality, it is because it is important for Norway to contribute to the care of rain forests. It's important that we thus manage to bond carbon. The support we have given includes: to Brazil, is important. It is recognised as one of the most important climate measures in the world and, as Brazil itself says, is why they could present an ambitious climate target for Brazil’s own part. So we don't do our foresting to drag it into the quotas. What we've done is we've said that we also want a market mechanism that allows us to increase our ambitions beyond 40 pst. The principle that we can work together to do more is important for Norway to include in the agreement, because the climate challenge is global.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1045	My question is the following: ‘How does the government intend to strengthen the ability of municipalities to realise climate change and adapt to climate change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1052	Municipalities have an important role both in contributing to emissions reduction and in adapting to climate change. That is why this government wants to cooperate with the municipalities on this very matter. One part of the cooperation is about financial measures. There are several schemes that can be used by municipalities to realise climate action today, for example: through Enova. Municipalities have pointed out that they do not have statistics showing greenhouse gas emissions in municipalities. Therefore, this government in the 2016 budget has proposed to establish new municipal statistics. The budgetary agreement has also agreed to establish a reward scheme for climate action in municipalities. It is therefore on this side of the political centre line that there are concrete measures for municipal climate action. The second aspect of cooperation with municipalities is the use of instruments other than money. For the first time in many years, the government updated the State planning guidelines for land and transport planning in the municipalities. The climate was emphasised here, among others. the aim of including traffic growth in bicycles, collectives and corridors was included in the guidelines. Work is now under way to develop a State policy on climate adaptation, with the intention of placing greater emphasis on climate adaptation in land and community planning. In 2014, we set up a legislative committee to go through the regulation on floods. The selection will deliver its setting later today. We have also strengthened the climate adaptation subsidy scheme in the municipalities. We have a good dialogue with KS about the work on both emissions reductions in municipalities and the work on climate adaptation. In addition, local policy priorities have much to say for climate action. For example, the previous Oslo City Council has put down enormous efforts to improve public transport. There is a lot of positive happening in the municipalities of the country, and I am happy to follow along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1063	In relation to the last three budgets, I have asked the government of the municipal minister if they have at all invested some resources in the municipal sector to address the need for greenhouse gas reduction, which KS seas in their own reports have estimated to be 1.3 million tonnes. That's a lot. The response from the government has been no, no money has been added to this or to climate adaptations, for which the local government sector is in dire need. In budgetary conciliation with the Left and the Christian People's Party, it is right that some measures have now also been introduced, which is pleasing, because they are fully in line with what the SV has proposed in the last two years, namely to have a separate grant or reward scheme for municipal climate action. The question then is this: Will the government follow this up and create a greenhouse gas reduction target related to these subsidies, so that the objective that can be achieved in municipalities is met?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1070	Now there are 190 countries and dealers in Paris. What we agree on in Paris is crucial. The government proposed and has brought Stortinget to our own 2030 goals, much of what we need to reduce in transport. We know that municipalities have a very important role to play in achieving both our 2020, 2030 and 2050 targets. That's why we're working closely with KS. KS has said that it was important to put in place statistics, so that municipalities themselves can monitor how they reduce greenhouse gases. We have now proposed this in the 2016 budget, and also set out the new reward scheme. But the most important thing is how the municipalities plan for the transformation we're going to undergo. Here this government has come up with new government planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1077	What is happening in Paris could also be greatly influenced by the fact that rich countries such as Norway are doing their part of the task at home and show that it is possible. Statistics and facts are good – it has to be if the municipalities are to be able to do this job. However, as stated in the 2010 NOU on climate change adaptation, they must also have the necessary planning capacity and competence to implement this, both in terms of climate adaptation and in terms of greenhouse gas reductions. Therefore, the sample proposed an earmarked scheme for such planning capacity. It is also necessary to impose requirements for competence in each municipality if they are to be able to implement the necessary greenhouse gas reductions and climate adaptations. Will the government support a requirement for the local government sector to have competence that can benefit from these grant schemes in a correct and planned manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1086	The representative, Andersen and I, at least agree that municipalities have a very important role to play in reducing emissions, as well as adapting to what we already see from climate change. This government does not want to designate the municipalities in this work. I trust that even now the municipalities are working both on cutting emissions and adapting to climate change. Now, as they have asked, they get better statistics, so that they can follow up and see the results of the work done, and also a new reward scheme. Then it is important that it is reflected in all policy developments, including local, that the climate has to be integrated into planning. We have to plan our municipalities and cities in such a way that we reduce transport needs. We need to do that if we're going to be able to achieve our ambitious 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1099	This question has been raised by the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but is addressed by the representative Odd Omland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1102	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘In the Newspaper on 26 November 2015, we can read about the internal alarm in Innovation Norway due to high management salaries. According to the newspaper, 136 employees earn more than 800,000 kroner, and this development has escalated in the last year. 38 employees now make more than 1 million. kr. This happens at the same time that the government has cut the company's allocation to save costs. Can the Council of State defend what appears to be a pay gap in the management of Innovation Norway, while at the same time reducing the company’s workforce?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1111	Innovation Norway is a special law company where the state owns 51 pst. Companies in which the country has a holding are very different in terms of size, industry and area of activity, and what is a competitive level of remuneration will vary between companies. Innovation Norway has explained to the Ministry that the company is in line with the government's expectations of management wages. Last year the company reported almost zero growth in wages and salaries and that the company's wage differences have decreased. The information provided by the company on the annual salary settlement does not indicate a pay gap, as the representative Botten describes it in his question. Innovation Norway explains the salary situation in the company’s annual reporting. We will be able to go into this thoroughly and make an assessment of this when we receive the report for the year that is soon to come. As owner, I am concerned that there is emphasis on moderation. It is followed up in the dialogue with the company, and I am confident that the Board of Innovation Norway will follow this up. Conversions and reorganisations are challenging both for employees and for the management of the company. And among those who have been affected by downpours, too many will be a time of great uncertainty and unrest. At the same time, public utilities need to be renewed. For Innovation Norway, this is important in order to meet customers’ demands and expectations and to fulfil the role they have been given by the Stortinget. I do not think it would be a good follow-up of the company if I concluded on the basis of the statements in the newspaper. During the examination of the 20l5 budget, a majority of the Business Committee noted that organisational adjustments would be needed. I believe it is important that we are tidy and keep the division of labour between the owner and the board. Organisation and determination of wages and salaries are the responsibility of the Management Board. I will make further assessments of this when Innovation Norway delivers its report for 2015. Here we will also look at the reorganisation of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1124	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the dialogue between the company and the state council must go on level, but in the last year's budget it was still such that the Stortinget cut 35 million. kr in basic appropriations for Innovation Norway. Developments show, with reference to the Newspaper and Innovation Norway itself, an increase in top management positions. When there are more and more top leaders, how can the Council of State defend it, given that it is cut in Innovation Norway's basic appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1131	It is such that the reorganisation and wage fixing will be reflected in the annual report for the current year. We're going to go into it thoroughly. Innovation Norway was last ten years. It's a company with over 20 owners, who receive over 40 letters of credit, who have 22 home offices, 35 outhouses and a total of 16 boards. There was a basis for a thorough review of the organisation, and we have been concerned that innovation in Norway, as elsewhere in the business world, must constantly be more efficient and improved. They also state that they have gone from six to eleven top managers, but that the next years will have a reduction: from 69 leaders in the organisation to 43.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1138	Thank you again for your answer. In the Labour Party, we are concerned that Innovation Norway has a local presence throughout the country, and a lot of money will go with it as it is now expanded by the number of top leaders. Now the Council of State says that the number of middle managers will go down over time, but it is that these middle managers are mainly out in the districts, and the top management group is in central Oslo. In view of this, how will the cuts turn out in the districts, and how will the districts be cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1145	Innovation Norway will be where customers are, and it is in all of Norway. It is also regulated by the specific law under which Innovation Norway operates. Innovation Norway shall be present throughout the country, and I am concerned that they organise themselves in such a way that they offer the best services to customers. Then it is more important to have an efficient organisation than a system that is fixed year after year. So they're explaining that they're going to go from 69 to 43 leaders next year. I think it sounds like a reasonable number. But this is what the board will be able to explain more when the year is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1154	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘At a meeting held on 25 November with 15 Norwegian cities on the refugee situation, the government announced that it would like to rapidly establish settlements with around 3000 emergency places. Cities are positive about taking their share of responsibility, but believe building such large concentrations will have negative consequences for urban integration. Does the Council of State agree that although space is urgent, it is necessary to take account of the integration challenges in the neighbourhoods of Oslo and other cities, and not to do things that can reinforce them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1163	I would like to thank the representative for the question. In the challenging situation we are facing, new solutions are needed. The most important thing now is to get in place tightening and faster returns, and it is important that we work to integrate those who have been legally accommodated. Many tasks need to be solved in new ways. We are now in a situation where we first have to get a roof over our heads and move asylum seekers out of expensive hotels and sports facilities. Many of the solutions we have today are expensive. The offer must be accurate but sound. But it is important that we also look at new solutions. There have recently been several meetings between state authorities and KS, both at political and administrative level. On this occasion, the government will cooperate with the local government sector to find good solutions to the challenges we face, both in the short term and in the long term. That is precisely why the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and, in cooperation with the KS, took the initiative for the first big city meeting on the refugee situation on Wednesday a week ago. The government is engaged in good cooperation both with the KS and not least with the individual municipality to find good solutions. I am concerned that the integration perspective is being brought across sectoral responsibility in the selection of both short- and long-term solutions for the organisation and placement of larger receptions. I am also concerned that the local population needs to be kept constantly informed. Many municipalities have very good experience in holding public meetings. People's concern about what it means for asylum recipients in the neighbourhood must be taken seriously. Here many municipalities do a good job both in providing information and in contributing to transparency. We need a climate of debate where everyone can participate without being afraid of being harassed. Today’s integration challenges will not be reduced by the large increase in refugee immigration that we now have. There is also a background for government action. The government has already announced that we will present our own keynote on integration policy in 2016 and a possible proposition together with RNB in 2016. We have also announced that we will set up an expert committee to look at the long-term consequences of increased asylum arrivals and high levels of immigration. Renewal of the integration field is necessary to ensure the effective integration of those to remain in Norway and a broad anchoring of integration policy. We need clear expectations and demands for all citizens, including those who are new in the country, to support and contribute to society. It'll be even more important in the future. When it comes to solving the question of the roof over the head of those who are coming, I am convinced that this will be solved in a good way, after the meeting last week. I believe that integration must also be seen in the context of the need to have asylum places for those who need to thank them at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1186	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I think it is commendable that the government will show the power to act in order to provide enough space and to take initiatives to cooperate with the big cities. But then it is also important to listen to the big cities and what they said at this meeting after this with flares with up to 3000 seats in and around the big cities came up. It was quite clear from everyone that they thought it would be too big. I think it's important to think about what they're saying, those who are specialists and those who are close to, that it can be too big. Cities have larger and more inconspicuous environments where, for example: are active groups working with radicalisation, active groups working with drug addiction, active groups working with trafficking in human beings, and there are communities. It's more difficult to protect these environments and get an overview if there's too large a unit. So my question to the Council of State is, when you want to cooperate with the cities, and they say so clearly that 3,000 are too many in a fallacy, why can't the government answer that instead of repeating this with 3,000, as you've done in the last few days?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1193	It is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for the establishment of asylum recipients, but I would like to stress that the entire government with several ministers is in good dialogue with the KS. We have also noticed the signals that came from the municipalities we met last week, where they wanted to have received in no more than 1000 places. What's our challenge, and it's important to get there, is that it's a crisis. So we need to find the roof over the head of about 300 pieces every day. When we look at the reception structure that we now have in place quickly – with expensive hotel arrangements, and it’s about using sports facilities – it’s important to avoid the expensive solutions that we open up to look at new opportunities to get in place more reception. It's important in this work. I believe that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Local Affairs are in good dialogue with the municipalities concerned to address the challenges we are very well aware of that there will be large receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1200	I am at least happy that the Council of State says that they have noticed what the municipalities have meant about it. It's important to get solutions that make you agree, and can work well on it. Then there is no good contribution to continuing to repeat this by 3,000, as both Minister of State Kalldmyr and Minister of Justice Anundsen did by Friday at the latest. As far as the other considerations I think are crucial, as the Council of State was concerned about integration: for example, in the Groruddalen in Oslo, the state is using together with the municipality of 1 billion. kr now over 10 years to address integration challenges. I think it should also be possible to give a signal that large units, large new receptions now, should not be placed in the middle of the areas where we are already working with very large integration challenges. It is clear that those tasks will be even more demanding with an even greater share to be integrated, and that other areas of the cities and the country should be found than the cities where we have the most concentration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1207	I can stress to the representative that the government is working high to get asylum recipients and places for those who are coming and going to have a roof over their heads. As I mentioned in my articles before, it's the expensive solutions we see now, we're trying to avoid. That's why it's important that we have to assume that with the great number of arrivals now we have to think about new things. But we're in dialogue with the municipalities. We've noticed what the municipalities have said, and it's going to be what's important to come up with on this question. The representative then points to several integration challenges. It's very clear that it's going to be. With the big arrivals here now, integration policy and the work to be done not only in Oslo, but also in the other municipalities to get them out quickly in both education and work, so that they can be involved and contribute, some of which will be my primary responsibility as Minister of Integration to focus on the next few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1218	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Per Olaf Lundteg.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1221	«Ministry of Health and Health Bent Höie writes the following in a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen on 20 November, the same day as the National Health and Hospital Plan was launched: «Today, surgeons specialize in different parts of the body. [[2016–2019]] A surgeon who specializes in the stomach and intestines does not operate on the heart. A surgeon specializing in the brain does not operate on the knees." Can the Council of State do any good for what time the surgeons did this, that is, that the same surgeon operated the brain and knee, and my council of states such argument is correct public information?»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1228	I am pleased that the representative Toppe, who originally asked this question, is concerned with public information. So am I. Therefore, it is a goal for me to formulate myself so that even those without medical training and knowledge of health care understand what I mean. I have mentioned the specialisation in surgery in a chronicle in the Official Journal of Bergen. There I insisted that surgeons who are specialists in one area do not perform operations on another. To explain this, I wrote that a surgeon who is a specialist in brains does not operate on the knees. The representative asks me if anything like this has happened. As indicated by the chronicle, it does not take place at all. I have, however, let me tell you that bar cutters and field cutters may have performed both amputations and some dubious surgery in the skull. That happened hundreds of years ago. The representative and I probably agree that it has raised the quality of patient treatment that doctors, and after each surgeon, have replaced both the field cutters and the bartenders. The fact that the surgery has become more specialised means that we can treat diseases and damage it previously did not exist for treatment. It also enhances the quality of patient treatment. But we have to use the surgeons' skills wisely. In 14 of our small hospitals, an average of one acute surgery per day is performed. Should the hospitals in the future be fully prepared for this one intervention, it requires at least one orthoped, a gastrointestinal surgeon, a urologist and a gynecologist on watch 24 hours a day. It is not wise to use a high level of competence in my view. In the chronicle in Bergen's Official Journal, I did not just write about operations of brains and knees. I wrote that the specialization in surgery makes it increasingly demanding to maintain emergency surgery in the smallest hospitals. I also wrote that we need both the small and the large hospitals in the future, but that we have to distribute the problems between them wisely. I am pleased that the representative does not ask questions about any of this. I choose to interpret this as a support for my analysis. It is positive that politicians are concerned with public information and rhetoric. In my view, in the debate on the future of hospitals, rhetorical instruments are too often used to create fear over understanding. Even I prefer the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1245	It was a comprehensive answer, and as the Council of State knows, we also have representatives for a short time, and that's why we're trying to have precise questions. It is expected that the Council of State is among the foremost leaders in our healthcare system, and in order to have respect and a natural authority, a leader must stand up with honest reasoning — not dictate a story that is to be led by a layman to believe in. Now, what the Council of State says is that what it says is that a surgeon who is a specialist in brains, does not operate in the knee, is what happened several hundred years ago. That's not the situation today. My simple question then is: I am sorry for the state council's statement, among other things. in Bergen’s Official Journal, which seduces people to believe that what was happening several hundred years ago is also the situation in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1254	No, I have absolutely nothing to complain about, because what is in my chronicle is absolutely correct. Surgeons specializing in brains don't operate on knees. In fact, this helps to make people understand the challenge we face, namely that the specialisation in medicine presents us with challenges in how to secure and maintain a decentralised hospital structure with good quality in the future. So this is good public information. But I'm writing it in such a way that even those who don't have deep insight into health care or are doctors themselves should be able to understand the point. I think that is definitely the case. National health and hospital plan is just about being honest and clear on the challenges we face, and I had hoped that there would be more of them in this discussion. I record that some others very much want to play on fear and fear, instead of having a fact-based discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1261	Where some others are going, I don't know, but I'm assuming that the Council of State can verify that. What's at the heart of this is that there's an impression that's wrong. If we go to the heart of the matter, it's probably that only about one in ten people who are admitted and assessed by surgeons are operated on. There's a lot of intrusions that a surgeon assesses without operating, because it's not broken. There are many bad-in-gastric cases considered by a surgeon without an operation. It is a fact that professionals who are in service today tell us when we contact reality. And it is very special that the fact – in the name of public information – is not communicated by the Council of State, on a topic that is so important. My question is, is the Council of State of the opinion that it is misleading to count operations to show what a surgeon is doing on guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1270	No, it's not misleading at all, because as I said in my original answer: it's maintaining a broad emergency surgery preparedness – as long as I realized that the representative fully agrees with me in the description that a surgeon is no longer one type of surgeon. So even though the representative himself is talking about surgery as if it were a general term, it is not. I see that the Central Party has no particularly pressing interest in providing information about people. When up to three to four different surgical specialities are needed to maintain a standby in a hospital, it is not uninteresting what the three to four specialities do — with the resources and competences it requires — over the course of the day, in view of the long-term challenges facing healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1282	‘More chicken producers face an uncertain period of time. Many are at risk of losing their livelihood. It should be noted that the absence of market regulation, increased concession limits, overproduction and unstable markets make the situation too much uncertain. The Council of State has argued for «to release the farmer», which shall involve maximum deregulation and increased concession limits in general and in particular for the production of chicken. Is the situation of several chicken producers ‘to release the farmer’ or ‘to release the farmer in a free fall’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1289	The market regulation for chicken was adopted in the agriculture agreement with both agricultural organisations in 2005 and implemented with effect from 2007 by the government of Stoltenberg. The background was, among other things, that production was already in practice governed by contracts between the chicken producers and the recipients. The increase in concessional limits from 1 January 2015 was necessary to ensure that the production of chicken can also be full-time professional production and not only be forced to be an additional production. Concession limits are a structural instrument, not a market regulation instrument. However, raising concession limits will always create some dynamism in the transition to the new limits – new limits that will lower production costs. The chicken market has grown strongly over a long period of time. The main cause of the problems we see in the chicken market now is the huge failure in demand that followed the attention to antibiotic resistance. In a short time, demand failed at over 15 pst. Such a demand failure was unpredictable and would be very demanding to deal with in all markets. It is up to the industry itself to regulate the production capacity of that market demand. It is, of course, demanding and has consequences for many producers. But it is my opinion that the industry itself has more effective means of making rapid adjustments now than if we had had traditional market regulation in the chicken sector. Then the probability is great that because of the late scaling down of the production we would have had large and unmanageable surplus stocks, which would burden the manufacturers further. The chicken market is now in the process of recovering, and this will ease the situation somewhat. To run an industry means a continuous need to work on development, risk and competition in the market. Structural changes are part of it and have been going on for decades in agriculture. I trust that the recipients and suppliers will find the best solutions to adapt their capacity to market demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1302	That was an expected answer. But it's not to hide that when you increase the concession limits as significantly as it was done, and as I understand it is part of the Council of State's ideology and approach to just food production, it could cause problems for some. Fortunately, the demand side seems to be improving, which the Council of State was also in on, but combined with the grips that are now taking place, among others. of the industry and where one has increased efforts in the vertical — and how many seem to merge its pilings, whether in terms of production, distribution, retailing — there is a cause for concern. And I would like to ask the Council of State first whether one is concerned, and whether the department and government look at measures to address the major problems that some people now have, especially those related to chicken production?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1307	We've examined this a little bit with the concession limit and how many have now started building larger chicken houses, and it's about three to four pieces on the iron. So if it was this concession limit that was the cause of the problems in the chicken market, then I find it hard to find the explanation there. What is certain and, as I hear, the representative of Storberget also agrees, is that the most significant demand failure is. Then I understand very well that there is a difficult situation for them. I also know that one in the Nortura system now assesses the situation that is up in Trøndelag, where we know that there are some producers that are insecure. But then we need to increase production in agriculture, for example. on bovine animals, so that those who wish to engage in farming have further opportunities, if not for chicken production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1314	First of all, I asked if the Council of State was willing to look at any remedial measures for those in a difficult situation. That question is still there. However, since the Councils of State have introduced this into other types of production, such as: cattle, I would like to take a somewhat general approach towards this kind of policy, which we know the government and the Council of State are anxious about, where deregulation, increased quotas and to a large extent release is medicine. Now you can't see that it has at least some disadvantages in a country where we want food production across the country and to exploit all the areas that we can, and if we're going to be able to increase food production, it seems that we also have to bring with us the little ones. Does not this policy in its entirety make it difficult to achieve the goal in Norway to increase food production and also to maintain housing and other side-effects of an efficient and good agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1321	It is that we could have produced much more chicken in Norway and increased food production if we consumers wanted to eat more chicken. Therefore, we consumers will determine how much chicken is produced in Norway at all times. In advance of making changes to the concession limits for chicken, I talked to farmers who today were forced to work part-time outside the farm because they could not live off the chicken production. There were producers who thought to be full-time farmers, to be at home on the farm and to have full-time chicken production. I think it is important to facilitate more full-time farmers, that more people should be able to live from farm resources, and that is why this is an important step towards doing so. This is a market governed by contracts between manufacturers and suppliers, and I am therefore confident that good solutions will be found. It's also done in the situation that's now, where we see that you have had to scale down production for a period, and then I hope it will recover as a result of us consumers eating more chicken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1334	‘In order to combat dangerous climate change, research efforts need to reverse renewable energy, climate technologies and climate solutions. Norway and other rich countries with strong research institutions must take primary responsibility for this effort. This suggests that Norway should increase its research efforts in the field of climate change and go ahead of the international for a green shift in research efforts. Research must be shifted from fossil energy to climate solutions. What is the strategy of the Council of State to contribute to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1341	Let me first mention that the Prime Minister, in the context of the Paris climate summit, has said that Norway will double the efforts in the field of renewable energy research by 2020, from 1.1 billion. kr today to SEK 2,2 billion. kr per year. It has, among other things, The Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy has written about today. The government fully agrees that we need to take a great deal of responsibility in global efforts to acquire the knowledge needed to combat climate change. Climate, environment and energy are one of the priority areas of the Long-term Research and Higher Education Plan, and growth in funds has been the focus of priority. At the same time, the government has even higher ambitions than that. In further work on the follow-up to the long-term plan, we will assess the scope of stepping up research on low-emission development. As regards the relationship between research on environmentally friendly energy and research on petroleum, the Research Council has since 2009 spent at least twice as much money on research on environmentally friendly energy as on petroleum research. In 2015, the targeted budget for environmentally friendly energy in the Research Council was 780 million. kr, while the budget for petroleum research was 366 million. kr. Climate research is also part of many of the tools of the Research Council, both targeted initiatives, open programmes and programmes for purposes other than climate and energy. Together, the Research Council financed in 2014 climate-relevant research projects for 1.3 billion. kr. This government has also been particularly concerned with strengthening the open areas of the Research Council. For example, we have an escalating research infrastructure plan of 400 million. until 2018. The last call was the largest ever, and the award was given a green profile — including several major projects on environmentally friendly energy. It is also worth mentioning that the EU Programme Horizon 2020 prioritises research on climate and energy. Norwegian researchers are good at the competition for funds in this area. Petroleum research is a much lower priority in the EU. Finally, I would like to remind you that not everything in petroleum research is bad for climate and the environment, to say it that way. Part of the research is environmental-oriented, e.g. research on energy efficiency improvement and the reduction of the environmental impact of the sector. In summary, I believe that we have a reasonable balance in prioritising research funds between important topics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1362	When it comes to the balance between our joint effort in the field of petroleum research and renewables, Norway currently spends around 5.7 billion. NOK in petroleum-rate research, which is then 11 pst. of the total Norwegian research effort. For comparison, 3 pst is going to go. of the total renewable energy effort. That means that the balance is very biased and then mostly on petroleum straight research. In the state budget submitted by the government for 2016, they propose that the maximum individual investment, Demo 2000, which is a petroleum-retarded investment, should be increased by 100 million. kr – and is the largest. My question remains: how will the Minister achieve a better balance between petroleum-oriented and renewable research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1369	In terms of the figures the representative uses, I almost have to ask if there are total research efforts or if there is public research effort. If you look at the Research Council, which is, of course, the most important instrument of research, the figures are as I explained. So we're going to use more. We prioritise climate energy higher than we prioritise petroleum research. At the same time, in a situation where the oil price has fallen dramatically, we also believe that petroleum research and further development of the oil and gas industry in Norway should be pursued, but the great investment and the greatest money within the Research Council's programmes go to climate and environmental research. And what the Prime Minister announced here today is that our ambition is to double that wager from today's, approx. billion, by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1376	That's $5.7 billion. kr it's about, is the total effort – that is, both public and private. This is going to be over 4 billion. kr from industry itself within the very good frameworks to invest in research that petroleum industry has through our tax laws. In addition, an expert group set up by the Council of Technology has proposed to phase out public support for petroleum research and to turn the funds over to renewable energy and other future solutions. So there's no reason why the public feed is heavily involved in petroleum research when this is a mature industry that finances this to a large extent itself, and we also see that it is so extremely unevenly distributed. And petroleum exploration is one of our all, the biggest research arenas in Norway. Does the Minister not see the need to shift public efforts from petroleum research to the underfunded research on renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1381	It was clarifying. It is clear that oil and gas are a major industry in Norway, and we want them to spend money on research, we want them to spend money on development. But it probably does that if you add up to private and public research, petroleum research gets bigger. My point was that in the areas for which we are responsible through the Research Council, climate and environmental research is clearly a priority over petroleum research. I believe we should continue to do that, and that is one of the reasons why the Prime Minister announces a strong commitment to climate and environmental research and not a similar commitment to petroleum research. But we also have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. I think the representative of the Joint Association, the LO organisation that organizes a lot of those who work in Norwegian oil and gas industries, puts it quite well in the class struggle when he calls SV's policy on desktop policy – simply because SV here ignores important jobs and also advice from trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1386	Then there's case no. 2, today's regular Question Time, over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-02.ana.ud524e1399	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
