ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e43	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, has taken the seat. Representative Karianne O. Tung will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e51	I will, on behalf of the great-great-great-representatives Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Niclas Tokerud, Trond Giske, Christian Tynning Bjørnø and myself present a proposal for a representative to bet on mental health in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e56	The representative of Trond Helleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e59	I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of the Magnificent Jonas Gahr Støre, Knut Arild Hareide, Marit Arnstad, Ola Elvestuen, Rasmus Hansson and myself on increasing Norwegian efforts in connection with the humanitarian crisis in Syria and the neighbourhoods. I also ask that the proposal be examined in accordance with Article 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which states that it is to be ‘opened to the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e66	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner, which means that Trond Greece’s request will be met. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e82	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after submission by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e89	The size of the premium shall be considered today by the Economic and Social Committee on the agricultural situation for 2015. I would like to thank the Committee and not least the Committee Secretary for a good cooperation some hectic days last week. The requirements of agriculture were presented on 24 April and the country’s offer was submitted on 5 May. On 8 May agriculture announced that they would be negotiating. On 14 May, the State negotiating committee presented a revised offer as a basis for a final solution. On 15 May, Norwegian Farmers' Associations chose to break the negotiations, and the State and Norway's Farmers' Association later concluded the same agricultural agreement for 2015–2016. The financial framework for the agreement includes changes in target prices from 1 July 2015, amended capped allocation. 1150 in 2016 at 45 million. NOK 30 million transferred from 2014. DKK and changed value of the agricultural deduction of 10 million. kr. On behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Directorate of Agriculture has carried out an evaluation of the short-term effects of last year’s settlement. As a result, it was established that the target prices for some goods increased from 1 July 2014, with full-year effect in 2015. The arrangements for budgetary support were amended within the unchanged overall allocation framework for the calendar year 2015. The district grants were continued unchanged. The grant profile, with decreasing rates of aid at increasing operating levels, was flattened and the subsidy ceilings were raised for livestock subsidies and for area grants lifted. At the same time, the Mechanism was simplified and the possibilities for monitoring grant payments improved. The evaluation concludes that the changes in the grant measurement result in very small and unsystematic changes between the counties and the housing and labour market regions. Overall, the resolution in 2014 has been positive for increased production and value creation and neutral to the objectives of sustainable agriculture across the country. An overall committee wants an environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking Norwegian agriculture with small and large uses across the country. The aim is to stimulate Norwegian agricultural policy to increase food production, with the intention of increasing self-sufficiency, for emergency reasons. The Committee considers that a differentiation of the instruments should be maintained, which facilitates a varied use structure and ensures sustainable production of agricultural land throughout the country. The Committee agrees to ensure the appropriate use of State transfers, to reduce the level of costs and to provide farmers with new and better income opportunities. The Committee also believes that it is essential that the agricultural policy pursued provides safe and safe food, agriculture throughout the country, increased value creation and sustainable nutrition. The Committee has noted the high productivity growth of agriculture over the last 10 years and that the activity of agriculture is in many ways more environmentally friendly today than it was 20 to 30 years ago. The Committee also points out that although processing and placing on the market of agricultural products are mainly outside the scope of the Agreement on Agriculture and Trade Policy, market organisations and price developments in raw materials are of major importance both for the food industry and for the placing on the market. As a result, agricultural policy and the design of the instruments of the agricultural agreement must have all stages in the chain from land to table as a perspective. An overall committee also highlights the importance of active and profitable forestry and a competitive forest industry for housing, employment and industrial development in large parts of the country. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believes that the agricultural settlement for 2015 marks a new important step in the process of facilitating environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking agriculture with small and large uses across the country. This majority also indicates that the distribution profile of the agreement this year reflects the main features of the last year’s agreement. Furthermore, this majority notes that the agricultural budget title has forecast a strong growth in income in 2015 and that the agreement facilitates the development of agricultural incomes at least in line with other groups from 2015 to 2016. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation and look forward to a good debate in an important policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e120	One of the major issues in the debate on food production is how it affects the profitability and income of farmers. I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote write that they ‘consider it essential that farmers should be able to have income development and social conditions in line with other groups’. To ensure that these practitioners have income development and also social conditions like other groups, does the representative and the party Right believe that these practitioners should serve less than, earn as much or earn more than other, comparable, groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e127	The calculation of the basis of income for farmers is a quite complex system, and the basis for the agreement this year is the calculation of the budget item in several of these areas. Our view is that the development of agriculture will be good in 2015 and also in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e132	I repeat the question. If you want to achieve the level playing field in both social conditions and income, which I see as the Right Party and the Advance Party in part, do these groups have to earn less than, as much as, or more than, the comparable groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e137	The objective is for farmers to have a level of income in line with other workers. As I said, wage developments are good. There are many things that affect this picture, and there are also great variations in these reference uses with regard to those who do the best, and those who do the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e142	The report referred to a report, an evaluation carried out by the Directorate-General for Agriculture on the impact of last year’s settlement. It is attached as an out-of-office attachment and is partly reproduced in the Proposition. It shows the loss of small and medium-sized sheep farms, the loss of small and medium-sized dairy farms, and the negative impact of small and medium-sized dairy farms. In addition, the report states that from a district perspective, this also has an impact because changes in the structure also affect districts. It is therefore a policy in which the small and medium-sized uses in the districts are the losers. Is Right satisfied with such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e147	As the representative pointed out, this investigation concludes that there are no major differences in this. It's a composite picture, and the objectives are calculated from many different indicators, so it's hard to get a clear picture of it. But the main conclusion is quite clear; this does not give the very big results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e152	There is no doubt that Norwegian agricultural policy is now on the wrong track, and it is quite right, as the representative Pollestad says, that it is now entirely systematic that small and medium-sized farmers lose, that the districts lose, and that large productions are partly based on imports of feed and soya. When you write again and again in the notes that you are going to use all the land in the country, and that the small uses in the districts are going to last, is the question: does it mean that the Right, the Government and the majority have to adjust the course to achieve that goal? The measures that you are putting in now mean that it is not possible to keep those uses up and that rural agriculture is going to disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e160	Structural changes in agriculture have been going on for decades, regardless of government. This is something that forces itself, in terms of increasing productivity and profitability. Now it is that larger grazing resources are put into use. One also sees that there are niche producers who use smaller farms, and I do not think it is going in the direction described by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e167	The agricultural agreement applies to the calendar year 2016. The representative, Foss, replied to questions from the representative, Storberget, that the number of the subject of the budget was the basis for the negotiations. My simple question is: Is it that the Budgetary Department produces figures for 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e172	I have great respect for Lundteg's knowledge of this, and it's probably possible that I was a little unyanished here. But what underpins the agreement is the calculation made by the Budgetary Department and on which the agreement is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e177	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e180	I would first of all like to express, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that we think it is good that we have managed to reach an agreement in such an important field as the Stortinget deals with today. We believe that it is essential to achieve ambitious objectives for food production that we are able to have a negotiating institute that helps the main actors – read: the agricultural organisations, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government – to be able to negotiate both the target prices and the budget once a year, and that such an instrument, which has been codified in Norway since at least 1950, is crucial for the ambitions of most parties in this room for food production. Then I must also state that it is a paradox that, with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government, we see that there is an increase in the frame vis-à-vis Norwegian food producers and Norwegian farmers, but that to a large extent this is done by taking out an increase in the target price. I say this because I remember earlier debates, where exactly the prices and prices of consumers to us other groups were made a major appeal point for the blue-blue, under the cover of the fact that the food was too expensive, among other things. This might seem to be a little dangerous way for the right-hand side to finance increased food production. However, it is gratifying to show that we have now left the line that was laid down when alternative budgets were created in the Grand Duchy, when both the Right and the Advance Party decided to cut significantly in the budget transfers to agriculture and even in the election campaign signaled very clearly that when they came into government, there should be a policy to continue, and among other things. contribute to the financing of the tax havens that were intended to be implemented. In this way, my and the Workers' Party's recognition of the agricultural agreement that we – a majority – are making today is also based on the use of many of the instruments that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy has actually done over a long, long period of time, and in this way a goodbye to what the Right Party and the Progress Party have stood for in opposition, where they wanted to bring this down considerably. When this is said, there are also several aspects of this year's agreement that the Workers' Party should have seen differently. We have our clear right and duty to assess the appropriations given in the Storting, but on this occasion we believe that the negotiating institute is so important that we choose to base this on. This does not mean that we agree with each other, and that we should not want another development of the agreement that is being discussed today. As the representative of Geir Pollestad was involved in the change of line with the case rapporteur, it is among other things. significant challenges when talking about structure. If you do not make dramatic structural changes now and have taken out the milk quota regionalisation for future treatment, it is that what was adopted last year is continued. We are fully aware of that. It's also true that in terms of the results that are calculated, you can see, if you look at the unexplained appendix as, for example, Pollestad pointed out that the little ones aren't exactly getting out of this. Here are tasks for the future and for future agricultural settlements to bring us all together, so that we can use all possible capacity to increase production. We are also concerned about the economy of the cereal producers. In the view of the Labour Party, a strategy should have been put in place to improve the cereal economy considerably over a period of two to three years. I see what is present today in the case of cereals, to a large extent a zero settlement, unlike what you really need, a significant increase, which I will come back to later in the debate. So it's also the way to secure a good recruitment in the future, we're dependent on being able to close the income gap, and there we also have a significant task ahead of us in future settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e195	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e198	There are interesting times in agriculture. We see that stimulating production works, simplifying works, stimulating that the farmer actually gets confidence as a self-employed person, works. The arrows are on the move to start pointing in a different direction from what they've been doing for many, many years. The Labour Party seems to be going from being reform-friendly, as they were 25 years ago under Minister of Agriculture Eyeågen, to becoming quite so reformless with Storberget in opposition. I just wonder that you can't see that the need for reform is there, and I ask myself: why is the Labour Party looking to fight for the ever fewer people who don't see that the policy being pursued is actually producing results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e205	Thank you for that line. It gives me a very good opportunity to talk about exactly what we need to simplify -- obviously. This applies not only to agriculture, but also to other areas of society. But what is so sad is that the kind of simplifications outlined in this settlement, which the government uses to decorate itself with when drawing up lists of simplification measures, is, after all, the opposite of simplification in the view of the Workers' Party – that is a deterioration. So when you take from a food producer the opportunity he has for, among other things. to get compensation when winter is hard on none of his – i.e. repair of winter damage meadows, where the government is now liquidating the grant – we do not see it as simplification. We see it as a deterioration when the winter damaged cannot be repaired. The working party is thus in favour of measures that contribute to making food producers simpler and not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e212	In the comments, among other things, The Labour Party stresses the importance of the negotiating institute and that the agricultural agreement is an important institute for which they will call. In the Declaration of Government, we absolutely do not disagree with that. But my question is whether Storberget, when some – or one – of the parties are constantly breaking the negotiations, when the agricultural settlement repeatedly ends up in Stortinget and the Stortinget are constantly making changes in the agricultural settlement, the danger is that it can help undermine the entire negotiating institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e219	Now it's probably the case that this majority today actually doesn't make changes, and it's a very clear signal that you're taking the negotiating institute seriously. But I do not, unlike the Progress Party, have any need to hack into negotiating parties that choose to break. I have full respect for that. The negotiators of the negotiating institute must also accept that organisations, the trade unions, make the decision to break. That's what's in the negotiating institute. It would be completely absurd if we from Stortinget – or elsewhere – were to send signals that it is unacceptable behavior. So I really respect that. So I am pleased that the Progress Party has now clearly turned around on the question of the negotiating institute, because there is someone who has really made the point that farmers and food producers should not have this extraordinary access, it is the Advance Party. In this way, I would like to welcome them – I kept saying – in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e226	The representative Storberget said he was happy that an agreement had been reached. It is also important, in order for the Storting to be able to rely on it, that there are some clear policy objectives defined. I am thinking in particular of income policy. There may be a percentage of similar developments as income targets, which will increase differences, one may have a chronically similar trend, which will keep the difference in income between agriculture and other groups stable, or one may reduce and close the income gap between agriculture and other groups. The attitude delivered by the Committee today is very unclear on this point – on the current income target. My question to the representative of Storberget is: What is the income target of the Workers' Party for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e234	The party as a party has just had a national meeting and chosen an ambitious agricultural policy, fortunately, where it has been very clear that what we see between the farmers and others, comparable income groups, should be close. This is also the background to the fact that, together with the Centre Party in this setting, we state very clearly that ‘agricultural incomes should be increased and that the gap between agricultural income and average comparable income should be reduced’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e239	Everyone is committed to the negotiating institute, but in this round of negotiations one of the trade unions has broken. In a situation where agricultural policy is going in the wrong direction and the trade unions are closest to the knife on the throat and back against the wall, SV believes that the Stortinget has a maritime responsibility to assess whether or not to say yes to this direction and take a maritime responsibility for ensuring that agricultural policy is such that we reach the objectives we agree on, namely that it should be production on Norwegian resources, and that even small uses must be maintained in order to achieve the objectives we have. Therefore, SV chooses to present its own proposal and vote against it, while the Workers' Party chooses to vote for a proposal for a direction they thought was completely wrong last year. Then my question to the Workers' Party: Is there any limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e246	Yes, there are some limits, it does. The size has a very clear constitutional right and obligation in this field, but when assessing the appropriations that we are considering today and which we are going to receive in the budgets later, the ability of agricultural organisations to negotiate is very crucial for the Workers' Party. I am of the opinion that SV is very wrong in its assessments of this settlement, in the sense that if we are to be able to achieve at all the ambitious objectives we have for food production, we are totally dependent on having an effective and well-functioning negotiating institute. The Labour Party is afraid that the negotiating institute is more or less dead, in so far as it is committed by the Stortinges to correct this, in particular where one or two of the trade unions have signed an agreement. It could be a risky strategy if the bulk of the population were to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e253	The social role of agriculture is food security, and what we are talking about now is enough food and safe food from Norwegian agriculture – safe food, for example. in so far as it is to be free from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. So we're talking about a consumer case. This food safety depends on plant production on Norwegian land. Some of the plants we eat directly, others eat the animals, but it's plant production that's crucial. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties choose to subsidise the feed for electricity by 70,2 million. kr, an ultimatum from the government to keep the feed price at a standstill. We get a cost increase in grass production that makes growing grass less profitable. My question is: does this in total mean that Norwegian food safety is strengthened or weakened by this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e262	It's a rather difficult question to answer, but for the Labour Party, we're of the opinion that with the developments we've seen in the last year, and also the developments we're going to get in relation to this settlement, we have the least of the big challenges of using the Norwegian grassland. That was also one of the reasons why I used a little bit of my post to say that from the Workers' Party we believe that one of the weaknesses of this agreement is that the grain economy is too poor. That's why I'm excited about the results that will come out of this as we move into 2016 and eventually into 2017, to see to what extent we can maintain a grass production that I fully agree with Lundtegen in is absolutely crucial to achieving both climate and food security goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e267	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e270	Then we have again settled the farm for treatment in Stortinget. The difference from last year is that there is now an agreement, i.e. an agreement between the negotiating parties on which we have to decide. It is gratifying to see that the Biggest – at least the large majority of the Biggest – will agree to this and agree to confirm the agreement, so that agriculture will have a good deal to work out from to next year. It shall also have the possibility of increasing its revenue under this Agreement. I said there was agreement on an agreement, i.e. there was agreement between the Land and the State. So the farmer and the small user team chose to break. As was said in the line change here, it's completely legal to break. That is why we have a negotiating institute, so that one can agree or not, and when one then breaks, it is because one disagrees. But it's a little remarkable that the same party has broken into five of the last six settlements. It's worrying to me. It says a little bit about the entire contract institute, and whether this contractual institution is really justified. You're allowed to ask the question. Then we can hope that we will reach an agreement next year, where the Farmers and Small User Team will join the agreement, so that there will be a greater consensus. Then I also assume that there may be an even greater consensus in Stortinget, and that, among other things, SV and some members of the Centre Party may also agree to the agreement. This agreement, now presented, is a continuation of the last year's agreement, with some simplifications and, as I have said, opportunities for increased production and revenue, and that is, of course, among other things. the agreement shall specify the possibilities for agriculture to increase its revenue. It is not that we should decide here at Stortinget how much a farmer should earn, but we should facilitate the conditions so that a farmer can be allowed to use the resources he has, to make the most of the money, like any other seafarer in this country. This is because the farmer is a sea-going businessman and has a unique opportunity to use enormous resources to secure a good and stable income. Then any seafaring business must expect to work a little more than they do. The 1,740 hours that are standard in working life, but the opportunity is there, and I have the impression that the farmer is exploiting the possibilities of those degrees. It also makes some farmers have an income that is absolutely respectful of. So this settlement says a lot about simplification. Simplification is important for agriculture, and it is also important for the state. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that removing grant schemes does not represent any simplifications. Then we might have the explanation of why a number of new grant schemes were introduced under the red-green government. It is the way some people manage and deal with these schemes, and it is the government bureaucrat that does. Yes, it's okay that we think about employment, but that employment should have a certain purpose, and if the purpose is to sit and move paper and process support schemes, I think there's a wrong use of resources. The resources to be allocated towards agriculture shall be allocated in such a way as to enable the farmer to increase his income and not to allow bureaucrats to have a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e283	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e286	It is always expressed, with great satisfaction from the government parties – we heard it now in the debate from both the representative of Gundersen and the representative of Ørsal Johansen – that there is so much to be done in terms of simplification. I'm here with the proposition, and it lists 14 simplification measures to be implemented in the year's settlement. When you read this, you can see that 9 to 10 of these 14 simplification measures are the winding-up of schemes – and as I think most farmers will perceive as the exact opposite. If I was a farmer and a year had great winter damage on the meadow, most of the crop this year would be lost, in addition, it would incur great costs to repair the area, so I would like to hear the view of the Advance Party on the removal of this compensation. Is it a simplification that I as a farmer will experience as an improvement – or a deterioration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e293	As I said in my post, simplifications are also to be able to get less bureaucracy. When we remove some arrangements, such as the arrangement that the representative is in here, it's a simplification that makes us spend less money on the bureaucracy. Now it is also such that the system of compensation for winter damage meadow is not a subsidy for operation, but a compensation for the repair of winter damage. Simplification is about much more than removing grant schemes. It is largely about facilitating the farmer's ability to decide more about his own working day and the possibility of exploiting farm resources. I don't think that winding up this grant scheme will lead to farmers not repairing their meadow, they actually depend on it to be able to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e300	I think it will be experienced by those who are farmers, that they get it worse – that it is a deterioration. Another thing is that the majority of the committee in a joint remark states that ‘anti-corridoring in the West should not be part of the agricultural settlement’. Can we count on the government to base the majority's view, and not in future settlements come up with proposals that will not have an income effect on the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e308	There are now several schemes in the agricultural sector which are of the same nature and which should not be strictly there, but it is also such that some schemes may be necessary to further develop Norwegian agriculture. What we are doing here can help to ensure that agriculture actually gets more opportunities to develop. The main purpose of agriculture is to produce food, but at the same time it should also be possible to have income in other areas. In this way, improving the cultural landscape will contribute to increased travel life, which in turn can contribute to increased incomes and opportunities for more widespread housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e315	The Government Declaration states from the Progress Party and the Right that one will retain the contractual institute. The negotiations between LO and NHO will negotiate one for the calendar year 2015 and will generate figures from the 2015 Technical Calculation Committee. In the negotiations between agriculture and the country, there are many who believe that a continued negotiator and conclude agreements for the calendar year 2015. It's not happening, it's for 2016. Several, including the rapporteur-in-chief, are in error as to which figures come from the Budgetary Title. The budget title comes with figures for 2015, not for 2016. My question then is: wouldn't it have been an advantage to have a common number material for the negotiations, so that negotiations should thus take place for the calendar year 2015, as they are in the LO-NHO settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e322	Now it is, as the representative Lundtigen also says, that the negotiations in the agricultural settlement are valid for the following year. When the budget item presents its figures, it is a numerical basis based on what has been and what is in the current calendar year. When entering the agricultural negotiations, a numerical basis is needed, and that is what the parties have agreed to do. Then it's also true that we at Stortinget relate to it, that the parties still relate to it, so that you have a common sense of it. I have the impression that the parties have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e327	Now the rapporteur has been up and dampened the impression that this is a major change and a whole new direction, whereas today, therefore, new figures have come from the Directorate of Agriculture, from the redistribution of agricultural production, and there are shocking figures. It shows that the subsidy to the largest farmers has increased by up to 1.4 million. kr for a single use, and all money has been taken from small and medium-sized enterprises. It must mean that there is a very great transformation that has been made, and a direction in which very increased subsidies for use as well as in principle, at least in the policy of the Progress Party, should be taken because they are large and self-employed, while the smallest ones, who have to keep agriculture throughout the country in claim, get nothing and are laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e332	It is such that with agriculture, as in other industries, increased production will lead to increased income opportunities. Many people in agriculture have taken advantage of it. What we've done with this budget and the previous budget is to make it easier for the producers to get paid for it. That is why we increased the slaughter premium on lambs from NOK 207 to NOK 500, so that those who produce and supply slaughter for food are paid for it. That's why we did it so that those who have over 40 nurses would receive grants for them over 40 as well, so that they are stimulated to produce more food. The same applies to those who produce milk. We arranged for those who have over 50 dairy cows to receive a subsidy for the 50 dairy cows. All of this is with and stimulates increased production and opportunities for farmers to increase income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e337	Agricultural production is important for the income of the farmer. Tax is another thing that's important. Farmers have little problem with the taxes on wealth. The removal of the inheritance fee was a good thing for many. For agriculture, the principle of discontinuity was removed in such a way that the generational shifts became more expensive. But the government platform says that a desire to use targeted tax changes to strengthen the farmer’s financial position – ‘targeted tax changes to strengthen the farmer’s financial position’. My question is quite simple. After two years in government, what targeted tax changes has the government implemented to strengthen the farmer's financial position?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e342	This government has, among other things: reduced income taxes, we have reduced property taxes, and we have improved depreciation rates, which also helps Norwegian farmers get a better economic base. Then we also know that part of the changes to be made to taxes are not part of the agricultural settlement, but part of the government budget. Now I'm not going to in any way to advance what's going on in the state budget, but we've said a lot on the government platform about the measures we want to take. So it's that we don't get to do all the steps at once, and we saw that, among other things. during the last eight years of government, when nothing was done in eight years or very little in eight years. Now we've managed to get a lot in two years, and we're going to keep doing that, so that the next two years and the next four years will be tax changes that also benefit agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e347	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e350	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the parties that agreed. They have shown exemplary ability and willingness to find a good deal, an agreement that gives predictability to the farmers. An agreement this year also guarantees the legitimacy of the contractual institution. As I see it, agriculture was set up this year unnecessarily exciting. The demand was the lowest in ten years, and the same was unfortunately the offer. I am therefore impressed that the parties came together to find a solution both felt worthy of it. The Christian People's Party is committed to maintaining the agricultural contract institute. It is important that the Institute not be undermined. Therefore, it is important that the settlement of the year follows common practice. The size adheres to the agricultural agreement and does not interfere with the arrangement. In the setting for the year's settlement, the Economic and Social Committee has re-established agricultural policy pillars. Simply summarised are these: increased food production for increased self-sufficiency of agriculture throughout the country more intensive agricultural recruitment The Christian People's Party subscribes fully to these. The Christian People's Party wants active farmers throughout the country. We want to vary the usage structure in order to be able to use all the areas we have available. We want to increase the belief in the future in agriculture both for those in the industry and for those who are going to invest in it. We want to increase food production on Norwegian resources with a view to increasing self-sufficiency. The Christian People's Party is eager to secure the future of the industry. We then need to ensure competitive income, flexible and good working conditions, and we need to ensure that industry is forward-looking and innovative. The high productivity growth observed in agriculture in recent years is due to innovative and adaptable agriculture. Agriculture is able to use innovation and technology to promote increased value creation. That's very good. I think it might be a good idea to facilitate greater use, while at the same time not having to go beyond the small and medium-sized uses. It's not everywhere it can be done to get bigger. If small and medium-sized enterprises have to shut down, we do not exploit the full potential of agriculture. It will also run counter to the objective of increasing food production and agriculture across the country. I would therefore warn against just thinking about larger and more central usage. Attention must also be paid to putting the whole country into use and to using all available land. Feed cultivation is the basis for the fact that under the polar circle we have a self-sufficiency rate of about 40 pst and that we have a living agriculture with small and medium-sized uses across the country. The regional division of labour is central and an appropriate distribution of production must be governing when the milk quota regions are to be assessed in the forthcoming agricultural notification. In today's setting, there are a number of comments on which a large part of the Committee is involved. They are based on the main principles of increased food production, increased profitability, enhanced soil protection and improved recruitment. Around these main principles, agricultural policy should be pursued. It is also about this job that it has to be done in settlement and in the coming big message. Yesterday I could read in the nation that there was to be a revelation today, and it was to be forced by the committee's chairman, Pollestad. I must say that I personally have a little sense of coercion and disclosure, but enough about it. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to value the labor of the peasant, so that they are secured a income in line with other professional groups. The Christian People's Party regards the farmer as self-employed. We want to give farmers the opportunity to reduce the income gap for other professionals, which we attended last year by giving agriculture a krona growth of 26,900, against 13,603 kroner to other groups. That's twice as much. So there's no disclosure or secret of what notes we were in last year's settlement. We arranged for a growth of 26 900 kroner, and we're dealing with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in notes about this and about a percentage growth. The reason we get this discussion on income targets is the lack of willingness to make formulations in the last agricultural notification of 2012. I know this in particular since I was, from the opposition's side, the one who tried to get a formulation together with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. It was a pity we didn't get a formulation in 2012. We see the consequence of that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e394	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e397	Yes, it may be a pity, what happened in 2012, that you couldn't get a formulation. I'm not going to go into the historical debate. I really don't think that's interesting, to be completely honest. We're getting pretty tired of these descriptions over the last eight years. But that gives us a good opportunity to be able to get to a formulation now. It is in this way that I am somewhat surprised that the Christian People's Party in its comments actually chooses to jump off the note that is very clear on the need to close the loss of income, so that the Centre Party and the Labour Party remain standing alone on the wording that income should be increased, and that the gap between agricultural income and average comparable income should be reduced. I want to give the Christian People's Party the opportunity to say now that this is an ambition that is supported, also taking into account that the party leader at Bondetinget has recently addressed this issue. It cannot be that one thing is said to Norwegian farmers and something else in Stortinget when it really applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e405	Yes, as the representative Storberget said in a previous reply, the Workers' Party has had a national meeting this spring, where they have done a great turnaround in income. So if we look at the big message that Knut Storberget's government presented in 2012, and that he does not want to discuss, there are no formulations that say anything about chronic development. It's not. What this big message says is: «Agricultural income varies from year to year and therefore there is a need to assess income trends over a period of time.» Looking at income trends over some time – the two years that the Christian People's Party has been a constructive opposition party, there was an increase in other groups of NOK 10 000 in last year's settlement, and this year it is smaller than for other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e417	This is really a little bit unclear to me. If you're so concerned that you couldn't do anything before, and it's the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens who owe it to you, I think it's all the more important that you manage to get this formulation today, especially when the parties you're accusing of not contributing to clear wording earlier, now that the Christian People's Party's leader at the Bondelag's annual meeting is in fact saying that the income gap should be closed. It actually holds for us in the Storting today, for the Ministry of Agriculture's bureaucracy and also for the Council of State to hear from the Christian People's Party that there are followers of future agricultural settlements where you close the income gap between the food producers and comparable groups. It keeps saying it now, and not just doing it at Lillehammer to Norwegian farmers when you have the word there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e422	I think the representative Knut Storberget was more concerned about preparing for the line than about listening to my post. Because if I'm going to quote from my post, I can say: «For the Christian People's Party, it is important to value the work of the peasant in order to ensure income in line with other occupational groups. The Christian People's Party regards the farmer as self-employed. We will give farmers the opportunity to reduce the income gap between other professional groups.’ We have the same message in this room that we have at the National Meeting of the League of Bonds. We have the same message all the time. There should be no doubt about that. That's what the farmers have brought with them. Then I am a little more surprised that Knut Storberget's representative has not got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e432	I do not think it is the representative of Storberget who has a lot to do with this matter. This year’s settlement results in an increase in income between agriculture and other groups of NOK 3000. The Christian People's Party writes that future settlement should not be subject to negotiations in the Storting. Then it is important to clearly define what is the will of the Storting. It did so last year's Christian People's Party when they said in a note that it was percent equal to the income trend that was the current income target. This year it is much more unclear. So what happened in 2012 does not prevent the representative Hemdal from writing posts in the United Nations on 24 April to close the revenue gap. It does not prevent the leader of the Christian People's Party from being on the Bondeting and promise to close the income gap. Then I can't understand why what happened in 2012 is going to prevent the Christian People's Party from supporting a goal not to increase income differences. So my question is, what is the Christian People's Party's income goal for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e439	In any case, I would like to ask myself that I have said that Knut Storberget's representative is having a hard time doing this. I don't think he's heavy on it. But I think he was busy with other things than listening to the representative's posts when he prepared himself for a reply. It is such that yes, now I have quoted twice from the party program of the Christian People's Party the same as the party leader said on the Bondeting, and the same thing as it says in the nations on 24 April. That is the position of the Christian People's Party, and there should be no doubt about that. Most people have brought it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e446	The question is whether the Christian People's Party makes the government aware of it. I hear that the representative from the Christian People's Party is impressed by a settlement where the figures now show that you are systematically taking from the small and giving to the large, so that one does not get to use the food earth throughout the country, as the representative now said that one should. You can't keep the earth in claim. The representative was concerned that we should increase food production on Norwegian resources. In contrast, the figures show that there is more Norwegian food production on imported resources than before. It becomes more to those who are the largest and who should be able to produce what they sell, and less to those who are small. Is there a direction that the Christian People's Party believes can continue? Is it in this way that the Christian People's Party believes that it is possible to achieve the objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy with production on Norwegian resources, and that all Norwegian food soils should be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e453	I do not think I said that I was impressed by this agreement, but that I gave tribute to those who have negotiated it. Last year, the Christian People's Party and the Left strengthened, through the work we did here, little peasants who run with sheep – that was important to us. We strengthened milk production – it was important for us to maintain the channelling policy. I took up in my post that the feed resources are important to use because it is a advantage we have. Then it's important for the Christian People's Party to use grass where we can grow grass, and grain where there can be room for it. I don't think there's any doubt that the government, the Progress Party, the Right and Agriculture Minister Sylvi Listhaug, who is now right behind me, has got what the Christian People's Party's policy is. I think we can agree on that in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e462	This year's agricultural negotiations took place on the basis of the agreement reached in Stortinget last year between the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Institute of Agricultural Agreements is based on the fact that negotiations are to take place on the basis of the Stortingen Foundation's previous year. There is a clear division of roles between the treatment of the agricultural contracting parties and the treatment of the Stortinge. The Christian People's Party places considerable emphasis on not undermining the negotiating institute, which I fully agree with. At the same time, the representative says that the Christian People's Party will not interfere with the device. It was also said that the agreement should not go beyond small and medium-sized uses, and it is important that we have a significant feed culture so that the degree of maritime supply can be about 40 pst. But if it goes beyond small and medium-sized uses – what is today called large family use, because that is what is real – and it goes beyond plant production by reducing it, will the Christian People's Party see it as a problem for the negotiating institute on the Storting today intervenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e471	I am very pleased that the representative Lundteigen fences about the negotiating institute, but also is clear and clear about the role of the Stortinget. We're dividing that. Then I have to say that it may not be surprising that the representative Lundteg today chooses to vote against the settlement. It might have been surprising if the representative Lundtigen had voted in favour of it, since he voted against in 2012, when there was a settlement that was negotiated and agreed when he himself had his party in government. What is important for the position of the Business Committee in relation to the settlement of next year are our comments. You think I'm pointing in a clear direction. That's how the Christian People's Party wants to fence around the negotiating institute – using notes to point out the direction for next year's settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e480	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e483	The Norwegian farmer must be able to rely on the Center Party. The Norwegian consumer shall be able to rely on the Centre Party. They will trust that we are in the process of developing Norwegian food production, so that we can produce more healthy and safe Norwegian food. They must be able to trust that the Senter Party will have an agricultural policy throughout the country. They must be able to trust that the Center Party will work for both the full-time farmer, the part-time farmer, the mountain farmer, the eco-bond and other farmers. Increased food production and self-sufficiency in food are important for a number of reasons: preparedness, food safety and the environment, and to ensure housing and living communities throughout the country. Food production is in large, complete food chains, contributing billions of turnover and tens of thousands of jobs spread throughout the country. Norwegian food producers deserve predictable framework conditions. The government has so far provided only uncertainty, both in the agricultural sector, in the customs matter and in proposals for legislative changes. In addition, the government has been much more eager to deliver on the poor matters for agriculture than on the few promises of positive action. If we are to manage to increase Norwegian food production, we must use the resources we have. Then we must have large and small uses throughout the country. Income is very important for farmers – as for other groups. Then it's wrong medicine from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left not to give priority to spending money on the state budget and to down-prioritising budget support for small and medium-sized applications. The agricultural directorate’s analysis of the impact of last year’s settlement is clear: negative impacts on small and medium-sized applications. It is in stark contrast to the formulations of an environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking Norwegian agriculture, with both large and small uses across the country. The Centre Party has submitted a total of seven proposals for the settlement of the year. I'm taking up these. There are proposals to increase the framework corresponding to agricultural requirements, a proposal on the sealing of income gap, an investment package proposal, a proposal on the impact of the conversion of the lamb premium and two proposals on taxation. The centre party also has a proposal to define a clear income target for agriculture. The negotiated agreement increases the income difference between farmers and other groups by NOK 3000. The Government Parties and the Parties stress that the agricultural settlement should not be the subject of negotiations in the Stortinget. Then it is very important to have a clearly defined income target, not beautiful promises on the Bondeting or in the debate. As at present, the maximum amount of the income target is unclear. Income is the main instrument for strengthening Norwegian food production and ensuring recruitment. Therefore, the Storting should make clear to the Government that chronically equal income trends are the current income targets. And today we will get the answer to whether the Christian People's Party leader's flirt on Bondeting was something more than just empty words. No other part of Norwegian business has been more efficient than the agricultural sector. There is a development that cannot continue forever, without going beyond other important objectives for Norwegian agriculture, such as food security, animal welfare, increased food production and agriculture throughout the country. The government is using big words about its simplification policy. To a large extent, it consists of cutting schemes that are important for individual industries and for individual actors. For the fur farmer in Sogn and Fjordane, who risks having to shut down his production because the support for the transport of feed falls away overnight, I don't think it feels like simplification. It feels like a total lack of predictable industrial policy on the part of the government. The conversion of the lamb premium is a simplification, but there is a loss over time of 0.5 billion. kr, which will be realised later. Here, organisations must also take their part in the responsibility. The process around the year’s agricultural settlement was also special, as the state, in fear of being run over again in Stortinget, made a revised 12 hour offer. It was also not a perfect offer, but it was a step in the right direction. We need a new agricultural policy — which increases the incomes of farmers, who do not set up different parts of agriculture against each other, which does not defuse rural agriculture. We need a government that stands up for the interests of agriculture in both the national and international debate. We need a policy that provides a basis for increased Norwegian food production, based on Norwegian resources. The centre party has a great heart for Norwegian food production. Norwegian farmers, large and small, need a new agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e510	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e515	We in the Right regard the farmer as a businessman. There are very many good and good farmers who create good and forward-looking jobs in the industry, and they must be likened to other businessmen. But it must be for the Center Party to see that these tools work, and that the farmer takes responsibility and creates good and forward-looking jobs for himself. My question is, why isn't the Center Party involved in these new grapples that are necessary for these entrepreneurs to create good and forward-looking jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e520	The centre party agrees that the farmers are sole proprietors. The centre party agrees that there are very many good farmers in Norway. The centre party compares the farmers with other traders, but when we see a policy that reduces the income of very many farmers because subsidies are passed on, and the small and medium-sized uses are cut, it is not easy to get around that it means what income policy a leader is. In terms of all these arrows that are supposed to point the right way, I think someone must have turned that sheet on their heads, because it was built down more food soil in 2014 than in 2013. Several of the other arrows have also, after the Council of State presented them, been revealed as false.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e527	One example here, which may be a small point, but still: In 2009, we got a plan for clearing wood and wood along the road, the viewpoint, etc. This was very much countered in 2009, when it was introduced by the red-green government. But what is the reason why it was well taken at the time, when it was under the agricultural development fund, but now it is not a particularly good measure at all? What does it do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e532	The central party believes that the main task of agriculture is to produce food, not to care for the weak and to clear viewpoints in some Western countries, and we are very pleased that a majority in the committee has said that this is not part of the agricultural agreement. We don't want more of this to the next year. It is important for tourism, rural tourism and others to clear a view, but it should then be financed from the State Road Administration's budget, and it can be financed from the Ministry of Industry's budget, as a tourist effort. We believe that the positive side-effects of Norwegian food production should come as a consequence of the production of food. That is why we are opposed to lawn mower subsidies, and therefore we are against subsidies that are not targeted at increasing food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e539	This helps to strengthen the foundations of many farmers. And many farmers who want to take responsibility and create good and forward-looking jobs may need to be able to take such a responsibility and be involved in doing such a thing. When the farmer is then a self-employed person and wants to participate in and develop his job, I think it is striking that the representative Pollestad is opposed to the principle that this should be part of creating good and forward-looking jobs. So I want to challenge the Center Party to take a greater share of the value creation in that way, by facilitating that the farmer is actually a businessman and makes it more possible to take a greater responsibility on his own garden, with new additional tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e544	The center part is a hot follower of the multi-syslery. That is, we have a sense for the farmer who has sheep, some forest, who might fish a little bit and break the municipal path. This is important, and that is why we can say that agriculture is a pillar of many rural communities. That is why we disagree when the government decouples agricultural policy and rural policy. In the case of e.g.: Japanese and Chinese tourists shall have a view of the fjord by a chopper down trees, we believe that it is a task that the State Road Service should take care of. The majority of the Committee also agrees. In the case of these tourists looking at beautiful and well-kept cultural landscapes, as a result of the production of food, and that there is an agricultural industry in the whole country, with small and large uses, there is a positive added effect of food production, and that is the centre party for the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e553	It is nice to listen to both posts and cord changers, and I wonder how many times small and large use has been mentioned, but that is not what I should ask the representative about. In the notes, the Centre Party says that they believe that increased income opportunities in agriculture are important in order to increase food production, and there is no disagreement between the parties. During the eight years of the Central Party in government, i.e. in the last period, this wasn't completely closed, rather on the contrary – why?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e560	I do not recognize myself in the description given here. First of all, it's right that we're here to secure a small and large-scale farm. I've said that many times, and it's written many times. What separates the Center Party and the Advance Party is that the Center Party has a policy that is suitable to achieve that goal. So I understand that you're most concerned about what happened during the eight red-green years. It was a time when there was a sharp decline in the degradation of food soil. Unfortunately, they spin the arrows in 2014. After a long time of real income decline in agriculture, an increase was made. If you look at the overview of the settlements that were in those years, compared to those that have been before and after, then you see that it's on a completely different level. During these eight years, budget support increased by 3 billion. kr. It is significant, and it shows that the Centre Party takes its policy seriously, and that it is best for Norwegian farmers that the Centre Party sits in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e567	The SV and the Senterpartie agree on a lot of things in agricultural policy. Today there are probably two things we're most disagreeable about, and one is fur animals, and the other is how we're going to deal with the vote today. SV has clearly concluded that the Stortinget has a maritime responsibility when the negotiated proposal goes in the wrong direction and we do not achieve the agricultural policy, the cultural landscape policy and the distribution policy objectives we have for agricultural policy, i.e. the multiplicity and the diverse objective we have for agriculture. Then I need to ask the Center Party: When the organisations stand with their backs against the wall and are forced to sign something that they think is wrong, will the Center Party always vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e574	I won't answer what had to happen in the future. It'll be an overall assessment every time. We're committed to taking care of the negotiating institute. I don't think it's like one party voting for a year is a be or not. At the same time, the situation is that we have two parties in government that want to get rid of the negotiating institute. Then it is that the granting authority is in the Basic Law § 75, that's quite right. One has in a way given up some of it and said that this gets the state and the organisations negotiating. When one has now chosen to conclude an agreement, there is an assessment that the Norwegian Confederation must make. I'm very pleased that Karin Andersen referred to all other measures than the income target, because in terms of the income target, it's also a problem that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party poorly defined it in the last year's layout. Our conclusion this year is that we want to vote in favour of the agreement that exists, but it is only after we have received a vote on our alternative proposals, which involve a completely different agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e587	I would like to start by thanking the Committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for the work on the matter. It's an important thing. I am pleased that this year we have a concluded agricultural agreement between the state and agriculture. The fact that it was an agreement shows that the negotiating institute works and has its right – the honor of the parties that agreed! In 2014 there was an agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That agreement maintained a differentiation in the instruments and provided for a varied structure of use and sustainable development, taking into account differences in the conditions of farming in different parts of the country. The agreement also stated that the offer made by the country should ensure a predictable framework for agriculture and that farmers should be able to have income developments in line with other groups. Norwegian agriculture has long traditions of sustainable management that take into account the environment, cultural landscapes and biodiversity. Developments in knowledge and instruments have helped to ensure that activities in many areas are more environmentally friendly today than they were 20 to 30 years ago, as the Committee pointed out. For the Left, it is important that the challenges in Norwegian agriculture are met with forward-looking solutions based on knowledge and research. This may sound like a matter of course, but it is important to remember that knowledge and research are fundamental to finding forward-looking solutions. That is why we are committed to strengthening agricultural research and development. The Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, NIBIO, shall be present throughout the country. It is important to provide knowledge locally, as there are considerable climatic and geographical differences in Norway. This, together with independent advice, must help the industry to become even more forward-looking, forward-looking and innovative. The left is pleased that there is an overall committee that believes it is important to stimulate increased organic production and indicates that there is a target of 15 pst. food production and consumption shall be organic in 2020. This obligates. Another challenge for achieving the objectives of the Great Britain is related to soil protection. The Government is annexed to the Proposition of the National Soil Protection Strategy. This shall be treated during the harvest session. The left is satisfied that we finally managed to get under the national redeployment target of 6,000 deches. That's why we don't think it's ambitious to propose that this be carried on, and we want a lower measurement number. We will come back to these matters later – to the autumn. Agriculture is important for today’s Norway, and agriculture will also have an important place in future Norway. Therefore, the Left will have an innovative, sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. I believe that agriculture shows the will and ability to do so. Norwegian agriculture is essential to ensure settlement throughout the country, biodiversity, cultural landscapes and food production. Agriculture policy needs to ensure that food production is safe, environmentally friendly and long-term, and it is an overall objective for the Left to maintain a decentralised agriculture with a varied use structure for environmental, cultural and animal welfare reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e610	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e613	I want to start by giving Left praise first because they were very clear early in the process on the proposal on milk regions. It was very, very good. So the representative in his post says that agriculture should have an income development in line with other groups. The year’s settlement increases the income difference by NOK 3000 per year. Is it having an income trend in line with other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e620	I assume that here the parties have agreed on a solution that is satisfactory also for the Left. The left does not want to do anything about what the representative here is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e625	It is a fact that the income target, as formulated by the committee in the vote, is rather unclear. Then my follow-up question on the Left is that it is desirable that next year's settlement and settlement be at a slightly higher level than today's, so that at least the income differences between agriculture and other groups do not increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e630	As I said in the post, I'm concerned that it won't increase, and we're assuming that you're striving to present something that meets it, next year's negotiations, and what we're going to have here on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e635	SV believes that agricultural policy is now going in the wrong direction. When you read the comment in the setting, it seems that the Left also believes it is, because it deals with important fundamental issues such as soil protection, production distribution, channelling policy, not the move of food production to the flatlands, that it is the combination of the skin we have to invest in, so that we get more environmentally friendly meat production as well, and also that there is concern about the decline in the grain area and that it has to be stopped. But what's strange is that the Left is involved in this in comments, but the Left parties support the government, are not included in the comments on these supports in Norwegian agricultural policy. There is reason to ask questions also to the Left: is there any limit to the Left in how wrong direction agricultural policy can go before the Left says no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e640	There is, of course, a limit for the Left in terms of small and medium-sized use and against greater use. It definitely does. With regard to what the representative asks about what we are referring to in the comments, the Left is clear in the form of the comment here. We're showing what we want with agriculture, but we're basing what's in the position and in the text of the nutrition committee, and we've found it satisfactory, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e645	The representative Farstad and I have been together in many fisheries debates and stressed that agriculture is very important, so I know he's busy with this theme. The representative said in his post that the farmers should have an income development in line with other groups, and he said in reply that the gap should not increase. I see that the Right Party and the Progress Party have a note that's about income development in line with other groups, and indicates that it's the same as the percentage supplement. Does the Left share the view that income development should be measured in percentage additions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e650	Thank you for the question. Like the Labour Party, we are not in favour of a comment that is related to what Mr Heggø is asking for, so it should be satisfactory for the representative of the Workers' Party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e656	The representative of Pål Farstad was essential for the Left to contribute to ensuring customs protection last autumn. It was vitally important for the agriculture we now have. In the setting, there are several comments about the income development of agriculture in the future. I choose to interpret it a little positively, because there is no Left and Christian People's Party on the issue of percentage equal development, but they have also not chosen to participate in what is at chronically equal development. They're not giving any signals. My question to Mr Farstad's representative is: if the aim is to close the revenue gap over time, should there be a chronic or percentage development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e663	I am choosing the question that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is presenting, to say that our text in the vote is the one we want to deal with further on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e668	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e671	First, I would like to address the suggestions made by SV in this matter. We are promoting them, and we are going to vote in favour of them and some of the proposals of the Greens and the Greens, to which I shall come back. We do this because we believe that Norwegian agricultural policy is now on the wrong track. I want to quote someone who has said something very wise, and it is: From the earth you have come, to the earth you shall be, in the meantime you must conduct good agronomy. This is what this is all about — it is using one of Norway’s most important resources for preparedness and security. We're talking about soil use in Norway. The soil in Norway needs to be used to produce environmentally friendly — safe food suitable for production in Norway. The earth must be maintained in a thousand-year perspective. It's a heavy responsibility we have. We're going to trade food with others, but increasing power feed imports are not marine storage, it's land use in other countries. We need to strengthen the medium-sized and the smaller uses – they need to get more, because that is where we have the large soils – if we are to be able to produce the food we can, in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way. Therefore, SV proposes that we reintroduce the ceiling on area subsidies and animal husbandry and rotate the income so that the smaller ones get more. Today, the overview of the distortion of subsidies has come. It shows that very large use, which should be able to cope with seas, gets millions of income, while the smallest, which has to exist if we are to have agriculture throughout the country and use all the food, gets less. Then we reach none of the goals we have. We propose that we take better care of the food soil, that is, the way we produce food, and that it be paid more by the state. The food soil must be grown where it is, because it is small, and the food soil is scattered. So it's not useful to think big business in Norway. With the current facility on the farm, all medium-sized and small areas are lost and the districts are lost. It's an agreement. I saw someone writing a piece here one day that if Sylvi Listhaug had come to Innovation Norway's leader, Anita Krohn Traaseth, with her idea that Norwegian agriculture would compete on big business and low prices, she would have got the door slammed in her face and got cash no, because it's a bad idea, which is doomed to fail in Norway. Others have this idea -- they have better assumptions and make it better. The operating conditions in Norway are such that if we are to win, we must invest in quality, clean food, ecology and sustainable and, above all, animal-friendly production, which I have missed in the debate today. I am pleased that the government has now tried animal police, but SV also believes that the Food Authority should be shared, and that there should be a separate animal supervision, as we have our own supervision in other areas. That's one of the SV's proposals and of our most important points. We are pleased that the milk regions were preserved in the scheme that is. There's a lot that was moved a little bit in the right direction, but that wasn't enough. We have a lot of suggestions, and time doesn't allow me to go into everyone. But I would like to mention in particular the follow-up and testing of recruitment measures for women, in line with the report Women, democracy and participation, of 2015. That's important, because agriculture needs more women. SV is voting against this arrangement, because we believe it is going in the wrong direction, and because Stortinget has a maritime responsibility to ensure that Norwegian agricultural policy is heading in the right direction. When it comes to maintaining and using the soil we have in a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly agricultural production, it is the small and medium-sized uses that are the backbone. This agricultural structure, as it was before, is going in the wrong direction. Then SV cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e704	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e709	The representative from SV is very concerned about soil and soil protection strategy, we can hear. That's also the nutrition committee, but we've said that it's going to be treated for the autumn, so maybe we haven't heard so many articles about that very topic right now. This year, the Farmers have reached an agreement with the Government on an agreement for the agricultural settlement. In the Workers' Party, it is important that this agreement be supported, although we believe that the agreement contains a number of weaknesses. It's because we think it's important to maintain the negotiating institute. Can the representative from SV confirm that SV has the same view, or does SV see it as currently parking the negotiating institute in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e718	I replied in a reply to Knut Storberget that, of course, the negotiating institute is both good and important, but it is not that the Stortinget can push the organizations in front of them when they are in an impossible situation and are confronted with a negotiation counterparty that is not willing to move in a wrong direction. At that time, Stortinget has a maritime responsibility for ensuring that the agricultural policy that is being pursued does not reduce our potential in the future to produce Norwegian climate-friendly, clean and good food on Norwegian resources because too much of the food soil has gone out of production, and because too many of the uses and users have had to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e723	This is an interesting debate primarily to see the difference between the former government partners. We have heard that the Workers' Party is already tired of hearing about the results of its own policies, and I also perceived the Central Party's posts as evading the results of its own policies. In other words, Karin Andersen must see that there is no sign that the number of decaves leaving production is increasing – rather the opposite. And there is no sign that the number of farmers leaving the industry is increasing – rather the opposite. And when Karin Andersen focuses on the systems that actually focus on production – because we discriminate a little less on greater use, I agree – then I will ask her: Is agricultural policy primarily for producing food, or is it for housing Norway, which we have shown in the past that we have not achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e732	Norwegian agricultural policy is for us to produce as clean, climate friendly and healthy as possible on the soil resources we have in Norway. This is what Norwegian agricultural policy must be for. So we're going to have to pay for the operating expenses that it's producing food in Norway, because it is, but there are also some advantages, because we have little use, because we have a long distance between the uses and some climatic conditions that make us have advantages that allow us to produce clean and good food. Food is a scarce resource in the world, and then each country has an obligation to produce food on its resources in the most climate- and energy-friendly way you can achieve in each country. There is also a preparedness and security policy in this area, and agriculture has many other objectives to meet. However, producing as much as possible, as cheap as possible, has little to do with Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e739	In Norway, we will never have any industrial agriculture that we see in Denmark and other countries, with several hundred dairy cows and huge farms with suckler cows. But the representative Karin Andersen is very concerned and concerned about this with size. Then I would like to ask: what is really size? How many dairy cows are there in size, how many suckler cows are there in size, and how many sheep are there in size?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e747	The proposal we have presented today says something about it. We want to reintroduce the roofs that were before. But I think the representative is wrong when he says that this development is not going to come to Norway. It will. And one of the most serious things that can happen is that we are weakening rural agriculture in such a way that the channelling policy is also moving, and that we are moving milk production to the areas we need today to produce cereals in Norway. Norway produces too little grain seawater. That's why we believe that the grain price should rise, but the very scarce areas in Norway on which grain can be produced must be used for it and not for grass production and for moving milk production to these areas. I see that the direction of the policy of the Progress Party and the government stands for points out to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e754	The first stanza in an important song reads: «All culture is culture – primarily of soil». Norway is a grassland, 60–70 pst. of the fully cultivated soil is grass, and the feed price, a high feed price, is absolutely central to any agricultural policy debate, because the feed price defines the value of the grass. I very much appreciate that SV agrees with this basic understanding. It could have greatly simplified the agricultural agreement if you had that understanding among the majority of the population. But my question is that when you have to have more land, you have to use a ditched watersick soil – including ants – and then you have to grow a new land, then you have to use more pasture. Does SV agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e763	Yes, if Lundtigen also reads our other proposals, then there are many suggestions about this in our approach, for example. this by stepping up the rate of drainage subsidies in order to increase and improve agronomy, soil welfare and the capacity of soil to bind CO2. There are also many other measures here to ensure the available use of the soil and to use it for self-produced feed. We also want the creation of an Earth Welfare Fund, according to a model from the Forest Fund. Because we believe that this is how to use the Norwegian soil, and that it must be used in a thousand-year perspective, which is the Norwegian agricultural policy first and foremost, because the basis for us to be able to produce food at all in the future is that we are able to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e771	The Labour Party does not call for us to automatically, and at any time, base either the state's offer or a negotiated agreement when we deal with the agricultural settlement. But does the representative Karin Andersen see that if the SV's proposal today had a majority in the Stortinget, would it really be a year for the negotiating institute in Norway and for the farmers – given that there is actually an increase in the budget, not a significant structural intervention in this agreement? What kind of points would it be for the Norwegian Farmer Team or the Small User Team to go to negotiations next year if one knew, almost on autopilot, that this could either go up or down in the case of bulk treatment? Does Andersen see the risk that the negotiating institute would be a mere saga?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e776	No, I don't. What I see as a risk now is that a large majority in the United Kingdom are supporting a wrong direction of agricultural policy. We believe it would have been right that the majority that I know is in agreement with SV – for the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left really agree that much of this is going in the wrong direction – had put the foot down properly, put the cabinet in place and said in which direction it was going to go. I think it's the only way to adjust a course towards a government that wants to go in the opposite direction. We cannot leave that responsibility to the agricultural organisations alone. It's Storting's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e781	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e784	In 30 years, the agricultural share of the state budget has fallen from about 5 pst. for about 1.3 pst. It illustrates a political development in which national food production is evenly less concentrated, while imports have become similarly more important. This is a development that does not correspond to a decision on the strengthening of Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. The Green Party sees this year's agricultural settlement as a new step in a policy where the objective of competitiveness is so governing that Norwegian agriculture is removed from its own resource base. This policy will over time weaken and reduce real Norwegian food production. That is why we are voting against this year's agricultural settlement, and we are tabling three proposals on measures that we believe will take agriculture in the right direction. The Greens like both international trade and competitiveness. But the main task of Norwegian agriculture is not, in fact, to be internationally competitive. The primary task of agriculture is to produce food from the resources available in the country. There is a task that goes beyond normal product production. The small number of Norway’s agricultural resources is scattered and difficult to access. Taking advantage of them is more expensive than in many other countries, so it makes sense in society that we primarily organise agriculture and allocate resources to ensure that the food we can produce is actually produced. It is then obvious that it makes sense to produce as efficiently as possible. It may also be okay if we also import and store products on imported raw materials, but there is something different than Norwegian food production. And at a time when even the Prime Minister from the Right is talking a lot about the need for a green shift, it doesn't make sense that such a production actually exceeds Norwegian food production, based on Norwegian resources. The parties to the Government say in their comments that: ‘The main objective of agricultural policy shall be cost-effective food production’. This objective is in our opinion for snow. It allows focus on increases in income for the largest uses to mask increased imports of power feed, decreases in cereal areas, poor profitability in roughage production and overall decreasing self-sufficiency of Norwegian agricultural products. There have been no minor contradictions in agricultural policy because the government has entered into an agreement with the Confederation. In last year’s agreement, strong growth impulses were sent to the main uses, the milk quota ceiling was raised, the maximum subsidy cap was removed, and the subsidy profile between small and large uses was flattened. This year's agreement continues these features. In fact, the milk quota regions are maintained for district reasons, and that is very good. However, growth weakens the importance of feed resources on individual farms, milk production is further removed from its own resource base, and apparent growth is increasingly based on the purchase of feed. The Greens agree that Norwegian quality food can cost more. There is a lot of reason that food is gradually reconquering a greater share of household budgets to the detriment of other material consumption. However, while there is room to increase prices, we believe that in the year’s settlement, the priority should be given to promoting food production based on local resources, with a focus on animal welfare, more organic production methods and the environment and climate. This is the main competitive advantage of Norwegian agriculture, not low prices. That is why we disagree with the fact that the increase in this year's agricultural agreement is primarily taken on price. It weakens the other instruments of agricultural policy, while at the same time reducing cereal prices both contributes to a low level of profitability in cereal production and reduces the competitiveness of roughage-based livestock. We therefore propose that the government set up a plan for increased Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources, that the government reverse structural measures introduced last year, and that the government increase the overall agricultural structure by 1,276 million. SEK, divided by 772 million. NOK in grants and SEK 463 million. kr in target price increases. I'll bring this up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e813	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e818	The Greens have made themselves advocates that we should not eat red meat. New research shows that if a rate of combikua and sees meat and milk production from it as a whole, the environmental impact of this production can be compared to the production of light meat, such as from chicken and pigs. Can this research result and the commitment to the combikua help to make the Environment Party change its view and perhaps both escape and think of a good steak dinner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e825	The Greens have become spokespersons to eat less meat. We haven't picked out red meat that is particularly problematic, not least for the reasons that the representative Botten mentions, because red meat is obviously a meat type that corresponds well to the Norwegian resource base, as opposed to the whitest chicken meat, which is largely produced on imported feed. So I don't think the contradiction that the representative Botten is trying to travel is so big. We agree that milk production and the combination of milk production and meat production are a sensible backbone in Norwegian agriculture, but it does not change the fact that the dramatic increase in overall meat consumption that we have here in Norway is both climate-impaired, internationally resource-disadvantageful and unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e830	All domestic animals can eat power feed. Another word for power is flour, and flour is human food. Some animals can only eat flour, it's pig and chicken the foremost representatives of, and they're very good at it. Ruminants and horses can eat both power and grass. What each farmer uses for cows, how much power feed and how much grass depends on the price. If power feed is cheap, use a lot, if power feed is expensive, use a little. I understand the Environmental Party so that a desire to have a plan for increased food production of Norwegian resources, in good Norwegian means in Norwegian areas. One wants to get the areas up, and the areas that are available are grasslands. Will the Green Party also strengthen the grubbing-up of fescue bogs, re-cultivate and increase grazing in order to ensure their vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e840	The Green Party will contribute to supporting the mining of productive soils that can be used more extensively for grass production, but it is very important to set the limits on bogs that are natural and which are a very large and important carbon stock in Norwegian nature. Afforestation of bogs is not the way to save Norwegian agriculture. We have explained a good deal of the measures we are proposing, and I believe that we and the representative Lundtigen are very much in agreement. But I think it is a bad strategy that Norwegian agriculture should lift itself up by attacking more of the remaining Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e845	This is very important. A good part of the full-grown earth we have is an antsoil. That moorland is the one that needs, in many cases, the most ditching. Is it, then, that the Greens do not want a water-sick full-grown land mine to be mined? Is it so, then, that one doesn't want to cultivate land to get more full-grown? Is it so that you don't want to get better, so increase, the grazing? If you're against the three things, there's little credibility about building Norwegian agriculture more on Norwegian land.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e850	Then I get to repeat once again that we are not against; we are to maintain the fully grown Norwegian food soil. We are opposed to growing up, digging up, what is now biologically and ecologically defined as bogs, i.e. increasing the area by using more bogs – we are against that – and then we are using the Norwegian outcrop resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e855	We're not talking about ants, we're talking about full-grown land that has been ants in the past – it's full-grown land now, but it's ants. Is it really such that antsoil, of which we have very many hundreds of thousands of targets in Norway, should not be mined to get the water out, to be fruitful – according to the view of the Green Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e860	Then, for the third time, I try to say that soil that is now fully cultivated and that needs quarrying to remain in production, is the Environmental Party of the Greens in order to receive support for cultivation. What we reserve against is the cultivation of what is ant today. I am not sure that we and the representative of Lundtigen disagree on this. But what we clearly agree on – three times in a row – is that full-grown land that in its time is based on ants, we are to provide subsidies to maintain, among other things. through ditching.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e865	SV will support the Greens' proposal No. 22 and proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox After this passion between the representative Lundtigen and Rasmus Hansson, I also expect the Greens will support some of the SV's proposals, among others. the proposal that we are asking for an increase in the rate of the drainage premium to improve the agronomy, soil welfare and soil's capacity for CO2 capture, i.e. not to re-cultivate ants, but to take care of the food that you already have, so that it also binds more CO2. There are a number of other proposals on soil welfare, agronomy and organic production and consumption that I believe the Greens will support. It is interesting to know about the Green Party, like SV, will support proposals to strengthen recruitment measures for women in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e876	On a general basis, I can say that the Greens will support many of the proposals for SV, probably also the representative Karin Andersen. As the representative Karin Andersen has just heard, there's a question of definition that you have to be quite aware of, what's the usual full-grown land, what's the water-sick soil, what's the ants earth, and what's the ants. Also in a climate perspective, there is a transition between soil that will bind more CO2 if it is mined, and moor that will lose CO2 if it is mined. So you have to be quite aware of where that limit goes, even when you're proposing grants. Initially, I tried to clarify where our limit goes. That means that we're probably going to support such a proposal, but everyone has to be aware that here there's a limit rise that it's very important to do right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e889	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e892	I am very pleased with the agreement that the state and Norwegian Landers agreed this year. Norges Bondelag has once again taken responsibility for the industry and provided negotiating profit for all farmers. Norwegian Farmers and Farmers' Teams once again broke the negotiations – for the fifth time in six years. In this way, they detract from their ability to influence and demonstrate that they do not relate to the framework of the bulk of the population in such a way that a responsible organisation with the right to negotiate must. It is the Farmers' Team that is hurting through the negotiations, and the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team is involved in harvesting, without having to take responsibility. The government is satisfied with the agreement we have concluded, even if it means that agriculture receives a stronger increase in income than other groups, at a time when moderation is necessary for competitiveness and jobs. The peasants made a 310 million negotiating profit. kr. It provides the basis for an income growth of 3,75 pst. in 2016, following a very good growth in income also in 2015 — in a situation where the growth of income elsewhere in society is declining. The development of income is measured as a percentage in all wage and income statements. Everything beyond that is leveling. The most important thing for the government in this year's agreement can be summarised in three points: The structural changes adopted last year by the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left are firm. It provides greater opportunities for individual farmers, greater freedom to develop the use and to increase production. It gives a fairer system of grants, where those who produce food get more than before. We remove feed supplements for fur animals. This is an industry of free international competition, which we believe must be successful without this kind of subsidy. Target price increases over the agricultural agreement are on the way down. We halved the price increase last year and further reduced it this year, so that the increase is about about. 10 kroner. in the month of an average family. It's claimed that power feed is cheap and grass expensive. This is an incomprehensible claim. I haven't met one farmer who thinks power supplies are cheap. On the contrary, it's one of the biggest expenses that farmers have. The Norwegian cows are not packed with soya from Brazil, as some claim. On the contrary, 80-85 pst. by the herds that they eat, produced in Norwegian resources. Feed is not a problem for Norwegian agriculture, but an important explanation of the effectiveness that has been achieved. Each cow produces more milk, and the farmer needs fewer cows to milk the same amount. What we're going to do is continue efforts to replace imported feed materials through research such as: The Foods of Norway do at Ås. The use of grassland has been greatly expanded over the past 25 years. Growing roughage production is cheaper than purchasing power feed. This agreement makes cereals more profitable, and grass-based livestock farming becomes more profitable. It stimulates the use of Norwegian land. I'm above average occupied by the West and by the amazing landscape that's there. For years, the cultural landscape has grown again. No grazing animal, neither goat, sheep, nor cattle, can cancel this in many places, because the regrowth has come too far. Therefore, it is a good and important arrangement that has entered into the agreement for Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. It is a reasonable and good investment, which fits well with the development of diversity in agriculture, because this can be a work that farmers can help to achieve. Recently, the government promoted a new message to the Stortinget. It is called Garden as a resource – the market as a target. Here we come up with proposals to help farmers make use of the possibilities of the farm's total resources, whether it be local food and drink, travel, exploitation of the land resources, welfare services or the farm as an energy supplier. I've traveled incredibly much around this country in the time I've had this job, and learned that it's not the size of the farm it depends on, but what one does out of the farm's resources. We want increased production, more start-up and value creation on Norwegian farms, as a basis for several full-time farmers. The government is well-informed to provide a basis for it. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy supports this and supports the agricultural agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e922	I hear that the Council of State is very pleased with the agreement entered into. But from my experience in government, I have to say that when I was very happy, it was an intense feeling. It was rare, but it was intense. So we are facing an agricultural agreement where the budget transfers, what we spend on public funds, actually increase – sail if any of us think that it does not increase enough. Target prices are increasing, searing if we can discuss the growth rate of the increase, the negotiating institute is standing steadily and well, and we see that the proposed structural changes of importance in the negotiations are being pushed out in time. In the light of this agreement, is the intention of the Progress Party to cut significantly in agriculture, to wind up the negotiating institute and also to make further significant structural changes now abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e932	It is sad to hear that it was a rare feeling that the representative Storberget was happy when he was sitting in the Council of State chair. I must say that I am largely happy. It's a great job. Then cut. This government is a minority government. That's why we have to set ourselves up to get through the policies we want in Stortinget. On these two settlements, we've made a change. The fourth year was the largest ever in the history of the agreement, especially in terms of structural changes. This is also true of simplification, so I'm very pleased that we've come this far. So it's always the way you have to keep going. I think this industry needs to change. It needs new tools for us to go in the right direction, and I'm glad that it seems so far that it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e943	I may be able to moderate my description of experiences from my reign – I remember smiling several times too, I have to say it [[muttering in the hall]] But my question really went on with the line selection that is now being made. Will budgetary resources of the country's community be actively used in the future to increase Norwegian food production? I would particularly like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the situation in the cereal economy, where perhaps the need is three or four times what is on the table today. It is a crucial tool for the use of all land in Norway, so that we use the grassland to harvest grass and the grain regions to grow cereals. Is it so that the Progress Party is now of a different opinion than when you were in opposition, where you cut 5 billion. NOK 6 billion. kr, 7 brd. agriculture’s subsidies – that we now look forward to and will increase, for example: taking care of the grain economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e952	Next year's agricultural settlement, we will probably have ample debate when that time comes. But I want to say something about this thing that's been up several times, that grain area is being converted into grassland and milk production. There is hardly one single example of farmers turning from cereals and starting milk production. But there are many examples of farmers who convert from grain to grass, and are involved in suckling. It was a wild policy of the previous government. Agricultural settlements were made between the previous government and the Bondelag – it is asked whether Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers were involved, they were not so often so – that made it easier for them to pay off with suckler cow production. What is now being criticised is something that you yourself prepared in previous agricultural settlements. In Hedmark, as the representative knows well, milk production has not moved from the mountains and down to the cereals areas. On the contrary, the mountainous areas of Hedmark have strengthened. So there's a lot of things to discuss about these statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e961	The councils said it like this: she was at the top of Western agriculture. That's good. I think there are many who are concerned about agriculture in the West and elsewhere in the country. The undersigned is at least engaged in West Agriculture. With the topography we have, we have to have small and medium-sized applications, because topography requires it. We have been concerned about this in connection with the milk regions, to which we are going to come back, and that they must be more fine-skinned than what the sample came up earlier in ours. Governments used this expression for clipping edges. My question is: has the Council of State come to the conclusion that the majority of the Committee is not so concerned about this cutting as part of this year's agricultural agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e968	Yes, I have got that, but when the concept of edge cutting is used, you have to take a trip to the West and drive inwards, for example. The big fjord, and then you'll see that it's not cutting the edge it's about, but huge trees, which make neither the local population nor those visiting the areas see a glow of fjord. I don't think it's just Japanese and Chinese who want a better view. I also think that all those who live there are quite annoyed by the regrowth that has occurred, and that has taken from them the amazing natural landscape that has been used to seeing. In the case of grants which come directly to the farmer, first of all this grant may come to the farmer by carrying out these tasks. However, there are many other subsidies in the agricultural agreement that do not go directly to the farmer: funds for research, development, advice, development measures in the field of organic farming, other development measures, means of investigation and preparation, bioenergy programmes, resources for recruitment and competence, welfare arrangements and price reductions, etc. So there's a lot of things to grab if you're concerned that these funds should go directly to the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e975	I notice that the Council of State and the Government are talking a lot about simplification. It's measured in the number of simplification measures. Everyone is equally worth it. I think Norwegian food producers are most concerned about the effect of the so-called simplification measures being implemented. So my question, as the Council of State may have heard before, is: With the measures implemented in the spring and in the year's settlement, a Norwegian farmer will save more or less than 30 minutes in red tape and paperwork – not per day, per week or per month, but per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e980	I have answered that question to the representative Pollestad several times, and now, as before, it is not just related to what the farmer has to fill in forms etc. It's also related to the fact that we need a number of people to process the applications. Some of those grant schemes are very complex. It's about that we need a device to follow up and check that those who want the money get them. That's how to remove an arrangement a simplification in itself. If I'm going to pick out one scheme that I think represents a very good simplification, which also benefits farmers, it's the co-operation code that the previous government put on and looked at. Five farmers could go together. If it was six, one had to go out, and they could at the top of it all not live more than 17 miles apart. When I asked why 17 km and not 16 km or 18 km, I did not get a good explanation for that. It is a typical example of a regulation that does not look at the farmers as self-employed, who are able to make their own choices, but want to have a governance that is unhealthy to an industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e987	I would like to stress that the use of investment instruments is important for the development of agriculture and that these instruments need to be significantly strengthened, because most of the productions are unable to return on the investment that needs to be made. Investment vehicles may be used to maintain and develop small and medium-sized uses across the country. Is this an opinion shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e994	Yes, investment vehicles are important. It is also an important part of the efficiency and modernisation of agriculture. That is what has happened in many productions. New operating buildings, more modern operating buildings and new technologies have been developed, enabling you to operate more efficiently and also operate more efficiently. In the demands of the trade unions in the agricultural settlement of the year, the aim was to increase investment aid by 20 million. kr. It was also included in the country's revised offer, so we have fulfilled what was required by the organisations. We also see that there is a great demand for this money. In some countries the money has already been spent, and this is a good sign that farmers want to invest and participate in the future in increasing Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1001	Agriculture is important, but that is even more important than that, if we are to maintain Norwegian agriculture, and that is customs protection. Without customs protection, it is almost impossible to imagine that there will be something in particular left of Norwegian agriculture. So taking the fight for customs protection is absolutely necessary for the government to do. The government and the state council have said that one wants to reduce parts of customs protection, but has been instructed by the Stortinget to go against their own policies and maintain customs protection. My question to the Council of State is now: Does the Council of State now agree that customs protection must be maintained and that this is the main basis for Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1006	There has never been a question of whether customs protection should last. What is going on is the level of customs protection. There are now a number of international negotiations, which will also have an impact in Norway and for Norwegian agriculture. Firstly, we have now started Article 19 negotiations. It was negotiations that the former State Council, the Battle of Vedum, agreed to start up quite immediately after the changes to the ostetoll had been made. We're now in the process of doing that. Of course, we want to take care of Norwegian interests. The second is the WTO negotiations, which were also positive for the previous government to reach an agreement. There is also a positive progress in these negotiations. If you get to the goal, you'll see during this year. Then there are also the TTIP negotiations between the EU and the United States, which may have an impact on Norway. So there are big and important questions within this field that are to be resolved over the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1018	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1023	Norwegian food production is a success story. Norwegian farmers do a very important job for Norwegian society, not least to ensure Norwegian food security and food security by producing food for the Norwegian population, but also by laying the foundation for a large and heavy value chain. The industry alone has a turnover of 160 billion. kr and has activity from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south, so it creates great ring effects around the country. I have sat and followed the debate, and I have noticed in particular that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are very busy talking about the eight red-green years. When they are, I also get to talk a little bit about the eight red-green years. In the 25 years before the red-green government came to power in 2005, there was no real wage growth in Norwegian agriculture. Other groups had a real wage growth of 50 pst. in that period, but in agriculture there was no one. From 2005, it had been chronically similar every year — a completely different development. Then came the agricultural notification in 2012, and the important thing with it was that it concluded that it wanted to increase Norwegian food production in line with the Norwegian population growth – 20 pst. within 20 years. It has been fully defined for agricultural policy afterwards, and that is what made it possible to achieve the improvement in customs protection that was made in the autumn of 2012. That we were able to achieve an improvement in customs protection, provided the basis for an agricultural settlement that was chronically similar in the spring of 2013, but plus NOK 13 000 to close the income gap. The red-green government said quite clearly that it was the beginning of a wild escalation to balance income differences, and it was measured in dollars, not in percent. This should actually delight the Christian People's Party. They should be inspired by the eight red-green years, and let themselves be more shocked by the years we're in now. The two agricultural operations that we have now been through have had one single area where there is some basis for income growth, and that is customs protection and the target price. Had it not been for the grips they took with customs protection in the period before 2013, the agricultural settlement of the year had not been possible. State Councillor Sylvi Listhaug should thank the pastors for improving customs protection, which makes it possible to charge increased target prices in the Norwegian market, and makes it possible to have a living Norwegian food industry. Looking at developments in Norway compared to developments in Sweden, it can be seen that in Norway we have a completely different level of self-sufficiency — in the case of beef, in the case of lambs, in the case of poultry, and in the case of pigs. In all the large productions, we have a completely different level of self-sufficiency in Norway than in our neighbouring country Sweden. For example, in Sweden you have down to 30 pst. The degree of self-sufficiency in lambs, in the case of cattle, is about 50 pst, while we are almost self-sufficient. The main difference is that we have a national agricultural policy, an agricultural agreement, a customs protection, and have had political will over time. This year's settlement is not a settlement for further wagering; it is a settlement for a gradual decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1034	Although the requirement in the year’s agricultural settlement had a clear district profile, one still sees that the year’s agreement continues the agricultural settlement of the year, with a redistribution from small and medium-sized uses to the main uses. Listhaug said today, and has also said on several other occasions, that these are the greatest structural changes that have ever been made. This change in course was supported last year by the Christian People's Party and the Left, but the Workers' Party does not agree with this change in course. We proposed to send the settlement back to negotiations between the parties by half a billion. NOK in the pot, but we did not receive support for it. This year's negotiations started with a $90 million offer from the state. kr and that the milk regions would be reduced from 18 to between seven and nine – a conversion that would lead to a deforestation of rural agriculture, in my opinion, and a reduction of the grain area by putting this into use for feed production. Fortunately, although unusual, the state came up with a new revised offer that kept the reduction of milk regions out of line, which ended with a negotiated solution of 400 million. kr. The Labour Party emphasises in its observations that the negotiating institute is a pillar of agricultural policy that has lasted over time. We stress that the negotiating institute is not a tool for a minority government to get through a policy for which there is no majority in the Stortinge, as the government tried with the proposal for a reduction in milk quotas. We are very critical of the agricultural policy that the government is pursuing. The trend in revenue over the last two years has been too weak, and the willingness to use budget resources is too small – as we also see in the year’s settlement where a total of 315 million people. kr is charged. I would like to stress the importance of focusing in future settlements on continuing an environmentally friendly channelling policy, on increasing subsidies for small and medium-sized applications, on food production based on Norwegian resources with agricultural resources across the country, and on reducing feed imports through a strengthened cereal economy and strong customs protection. The agricultural policy pursued in the future must result in a reduction in the income gap between other comparable groups. From what I have heard in the debate today – both in the change of lines between the Hemdal of the Christian People's Party and the Storberget, and also between Pål Farstad and Ingrid Heggø – one sees that the income gap needs to be reduced. Then there is a majority in this Chamber for that, and I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will remember next year's settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1045	The Labour Party will give priority to strong agriculture and predictability for agriculture throughout the country, and we agree that the most suitable food soils must be used. This means that we must continue to have agriculture throughout the country and that the geographical distribution of production continues. One must be guaranteed in future opportunities to operate farms of different sizes. One must ensure that milk production is not moved to the area where cereals have traditionally been grown. Only in this way can we take advantage of the Norwegian area and not least ensure the most sustainable and environmentally friendly production. I believe that today's government is not the friend of agriculture. They're more busy tax cuts for those who already have the most. But it's good that it was possible to achieve an agricultural agreement sail if I believe that one here has stretched to a pain limit, from the farmer's point of view. In fact, it's only 45 million. to pursue policies and innovation. The rest is that we consumers have to pay in terms of increasing prices of food. It is quite alarming that we have a State Council from the Progress Party that is going hard on the election campaign and promises lower costs for consumers, who are now providing the opposite. For my home country of Northern Ireland and agriculture there, it is primarily positive that we store quarterly milk quotas and the distribution of production – at least until further notice. I could also plan a recruitment package for young people with a fund scheme, so-called farm savings for young people, the GSU. I also see and record that interest subsidies amounting to 60 million. be eliminated despite high investment needs in agriculture. I also see that research and development are being cut despite the fact that it is going to be green in the future. This doesn't rhyme at all. As I said: I am relieved that Listhaug has gone away from the former agricultural policy of the Progress Party – at least until now – and what we remember they said in the election campaign, which could have meant cut in the order of 5 billion. NOK 7 to SEK 7 billion. kr. The state’s revised offer was essential for a solution to the agricultural situation. As we know, the offer that was put on the table was a cut. Luckily, you've got it on the plus side. The fourth year's agricultural settlement provides a basis for recalling that the redistribution of subsidies from small and medium-sized enterprises to the largest ones was envisaged. It's like Listhaug has actually referred to, that there are some of the biggest changes that have ever been made. This was supported by the government from the Left and Christian People's Party last year, and I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party was not behind that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1066	It is important to be clear about the division of roles between the agricultural negotiations and the responsibilities of the Storting. The agricultural negotiations must be seen as a preparation for Stortinget's treatment, and I am very pleased that the Labour Party's agricultural policy spokesman, Knut Storberget, now agrees with that understanding. This is carefully discussed in NOU 1988:10, the main agreement for agriculture. This goes well in Chapter 5, which I recommend more people to read. This year's agricultural agreement has been negotiated on the basis of the agreement concluded last year by the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is the priorities of these parties that are in the agreement of the year. It is therefore natural that the four parties agree on what is happening. When assessing a concluded agreement, the Stortinget and its representatives must be assessed on the basis of the social role of agriculture. It's the social role that makes us have a public agricultural policy at all. What is the social role is food security — the safety of adequate and safe food from Norwegian agriculture, i.e. the use of soil. Agriculture is the use of land. This is a consumer case. It is in the interests of consumers that we have food safety. In order to achieve that consumer interest, there must be an alliance between consumers and farmers. In order for farmers to do their part of this job, income opportunities must be provided that are attractive to young people – for the next generation. It's the lacmus test on whether the alliance works in practice. This food safety has been reduced over a long period of time so that it is now close to 35-40 pst. – very low. The reason for this is a reduction in plant production in Norwegian areas due to smaller total area and falling yields. Falling crop is something that every waking eye sees when one sees grass growing around. The agreement will reduce plant production in Norway because the production of grass will be even less profitable. The agreement means that one uses 70.2 million. kr to subsidise the feed. It's over 25 million. kr more than the sustained increase in government budget appropriations. That's the central one. I will come back closer and complement this understanding, but I will already address the proposal to which I have referred and which I will then go into. So finally, I will vote against the agreed agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1079	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1082	Farm-based farming last year provided the basis for reallocation of subsidies from small and medium-sized enterprises to the largest. The working party disagreed with this change in course. That being said, I am pleased that the Progress Party has stopped leading the Advance Party policy before agriculture and seems to have scrapped them in opposition. It's really exciting to see where they land in a few years, when the opposition role comes back. Let me say once and for all: the Labour Party wants an agriculture all over the country. We must now and in the future have differentiated instruments that provide the basis for a varied structure of use and ensure sustainable production of agricultural land throughout the country. As the representative Knut Storberget said, this year's agricultural policy does not take new major structural measures, nor does it reverse the grips that were taken at the declared last year. I would also like to remind you that the government has not scolded the issue of milk quota regions, but has postponed it to the treatment of agricultural gross domestic product. I would like to stress that it is crucial that we maintain the county boundaries in order to maintain milk consumption throughout the country. Food production based on Norwegian resources must be strengthened and imports of forage reduced. Then you can't put any more effort into it. Then we have to bet on the Western farmer and have incentives that allow us to have agriculture throughout the country. Yes, the Labour Party is critical to further economies of scale in Norwegian agriculture. In order to ensure sustainable agriculture, including for those currently investing, we believe that one should focus on increasing the supply of small and medium-sized farms in future agricultural operations. I agree that the government should invest more in travel life, but – I'm sorry to say – what is it about cutting edges and clearing for the Western farmer inside an agricultural business? It doesn't belong there! Finally, I would like to say a few words about the importance of calling for a channelling policy. Milk production must not be moved to the area where a traditional grain has grown. This is the only way to exploit the Norwegian area and ensure that production is as sustainable and environmentally friendly as possible. Effective milk production, with the production of meat and milk in combination, also provides the best climate footprint.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1101	Over the next 10–20 years, we will see that the population of Norway is increasing in number and that more people are moving in towards cities. This development makes me think of our old slogan 'By and land hand in hand', because now it's about rigging for the future. It's about building on, rebuilding and building new ones. We must do the same in agricultural policy. We need to ensure that the whole country is used for food production, and it requires that we also have differentiated instruments in the future to provide the basis for a varied use structure and to ensure sustainable production of agricultural land throughout the country. The centralization focus of the government is the opposite. Taking a grip that centralizes, under the tyre name simplification, is unruly busy. Basically, everyone is in favour of simplification if it benefits the farmer, but cutting into a number of grant schemes and calling it simplification is not a pure-haired political drive. Farmers don't get any easier when you wind up a district grant for poultry meat, it gets worse. We believe that food production based on Norwegian resources needs to be strengthened and that imports of feed need to be reduced. The decrease in the cereal area is also of concern. In order to stop these developments, it is necessary to improve the profitability of cereal production. If we are to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, we must ensure that milk production is not moved to areas where cereals have traditionally been grown. Only in this way will we exploit the Norwegian area and ensure the most sustainable and environmentally friendly production. In view of the climate footprint in agriculture, it is good to show that food production of meat and milk, i.e. combikua, provides the most efficient milk production. The majority of the population has had an excessive use in this settlement, where the increased grants to the largest farmers up to 1.4 million. kr for a single use, all taken from small and medium-sized applications. Each crown given to the major uses is taken from the smaller uses, because the total amount does not increase. For the sake of the negotiating institute, we are in favour of the agreement concluded in the Labour Party, despite the fact that it contains a number of weaknesses. If we had corrected the negotiated agreement now, we are afraid that the Right and the Advance Party's wish to park the negotiating institute would be realised gradually. We need to meet the growth challenges with a good policy, with objectives of increased food production, viable districts and food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1114	I took the floor first because when I hear the debate here today – and especially from the Labour Party and the Centre Party – it is a slightly negative focus on agriculture and developments in the last two years, after we had a change of government. The Labour Party believes that simplification is not really simplification, and that also means the Center Party. Hegø says here that we re-distribute from small to large, and the bottom says that it's a centralization focus. They feel this is very negative, rather than looking at what is actually the consequence of this policy and the changes and the simplifications that have been done in agriculture. I think it might be nice to look at the result of this and the important arrows and parameters that show how this actually went. Farm investment is high and increasing. Milk quotas are broken in order to obtain more quotas, and the number of natural-purpose seekers in the secondary school is large. So after several years of decreasing the number of seekers, we're now experiencing an increase in the number of seekers. This testifies to the fact that young people also have faith in the policy pursued, which is both right and right, both for new generations and for our country. I think it's quite appropriate to give tribute to both the government and the government, and to the vast majority of people who have made it possible to bring about such a change in Norwegian agricultural policy, which is the best thing for society, even though both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and a few other parties are opposed to such a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1123	It's been an interesting debate. The representative Trellevik is right in saying that there are enough people in this room who are not overly impressed by this year's agricultural agreement. This is also the reason why more people, including The centre party has its own proposals, which represent a clear alternative to the government's agricultural policy, as the main speaker of the Central Party has also explained earlier in the debate. Central is the proposal which states that an income target based on a chronically equal income development must be provided and that can contribute to the sealing of the income gap between agriculture and other occupations. The need for stronger investment vehicles, especially for small and medium-sized applications, is also important. It must also be said that it should be in the government's own interest to review the conversion of lamb subsidies in such a way as to clarify the actual impact of the scheme in a proper and tidy manner. The Central Party is promoting proposals for all these things. I take the floor because I want to send with the Council of State a question that I believe the Council of State must pay attention to during the summer, and that is the fact that almost 60,000 decan earths in Trøndelag are still not sown. This is a very serious situation, a similar situation has not been experienced in Tread layers in almost a hundred years, and it is a heavy burden on many of the individual users who experience it. Now we have well-founded rules that require you to then get a grant, but what's happening in Trøndelag today is a totally extraordinary situation, and a lot of that suggests that to get some crop in the house at all, it has to be sown during the week we're in now. That means it's a very uncertain picture. It's a situation that I'm asking the Council of State to pay attention to over the summer. The hanging hair can go well on the seams, but it can also be a quite serious situation. It is important that the Council of State is willing to put people ahead of the system in such a situation, where it is no longer about individual users, it is simply about a collective situation for almost all users between Levanger and Snåsa in Trøndelag. Finally, I must also be allowed to say that there was a bit of a witty line-up between the representative Lundtigen and SV and the environmental party of the Greens not long ago. Interestingly, the replication of ants that you have experienced here today is quite different from what I experienced that the Environmental Party of Greens and SV said about ants and the protection of ants in an environmental debate a few weeks ago. But we're going to hope that they're gradually starting to get on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1138	Although the Workers' Party and the Centre are tired of being reminded of the poor results of the red-green government period, I hope they can enjoy that much is going well in Norwegian agriculture for the time being: fewer are leaving the industry. There is a greater interest in both milk production and meat production. There is a decline in the re-disposal of cultivated land, and there is a greater demand for investment funds. Several young people are also applying for agricultural-related education. The government and the aid lots are engaged in designing the instruments in a way that stimulates increased food production. It is designed to enable self-employed farmers to increase production and thus also income. It also facilitates the better use of resources by small and small users. A number of targeted measures to improve performance, especially for smaller producers, are contained in the recently submitted Farm Founder’s Communication. But it's perhaps the way for the Workers' Party and the Center Party that it's difficult, and that it's a long way inside, to say something good about today's agricultural policy. Perhaps it is as difficult as it was for dairy farmers Steinar Kyrvestad from Valle in the Valley of Seats, as at a meeting opened his post with: ‘There is nothing that annoys me more than when someone praises the Minister of Agriculture.’ At an annual meeting in Evje and Hornne's sheep layer, where it was about the optimism of the sheep team, it was strongly underlined that it should not be a reference that was 'alto Sylvi-friendly'. In the report of a sheep meeting at Ose, the peasant team said: «The message of particular good relations in the sheep industry is now spreading faster than both influenza bacteria and cancers in large parts of Agder.» The newspaper Setesdølen writes: ‘This gives reason for optimism, but let it not in any way be seen as the only good word about Sylvi Listhaug!’ This clearly shows that there is optimism outside the farmers. [[Laughter]] I think we can enjoy it all. The debate is approaching the end. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good and interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1170	Let me first say that the Central Party supports proposal No. 22 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. I want to use this article to settle with the misuse of numbers that happens. It's like the government councils and government parties have an easy relationship with the facts. Norwegian Farmers' Teams are accused of breaking five out of the last six years. Yeah, that's right, but here you pick your numbers as appropriate. For the state councils could have said five out of the seven last years, five out of the eight last years, five out of the nine last years. But you deliberately pick the number that puts Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers in a bad light. It's a bad strategy. Furthermore, the state council says to the NRK that it is invested as never before. But then it says in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee that it does not vote. The investments have gone down. It does not prevent the representatives of the government parties from saying in this pulpit today that investments are increasing. Then it's said that the council said that the farmers wouldn't have grown more land if they didn't believe in the future. It was said in the NRK again. Then it's the disadvantage that the Directorate of Agriculture comes with figures that show a trend that goes in the opposite direction – but the numbers are still being used. It is said that the re-disposal of food soils is record low. Yes, those figures have been used by the representatives of the government parties today, but they are not correct. The new KOSTRA figures show that the positive trend has turned around. The same can be said about the history of the historical demand for milk quotas — a slight increase from 2013 to 2014. But if you look at it in a slightly longer time horizon, there's no basis for that claim. And I have to ask the government parties, the right-wing representatives and the party representatives in this room, to be more critical of the speech points they get from government teams. Because we have to have a discussion based on facts, and not on what you believe. To income targets: a lot has been said about income targets today. The ambiguity in the setting is being reinforced, but we hear that the Christian People's Party wants to close the income gap. I interpret the left in that direction that they also want to close the income gap. I record that the Workers' Party has both written in a note and confirms today that they want to close the income gap. That's what the People's Party is doing, and the Green Party is doing, and so has SV. Then I hope the Council of State can come up to the pulpit and clarify what she sees as the current income target – is it percent equal to income development, is it chronically equal to income development, or does the Storting have a goal to close the income gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1185	I fully agree with the Labour Party's agricultural policy figure, which said that the grain price had to be increased. It's an important signal. I think there is a broad understanding here in the Chamber that the price of cereals must be increased more in the years to come. What is more, is whether the increased cereal price should be subsidized away when talking about power feed. I hope that the representative of Storberget will be able to clarify this in the next article. These include: was in particular with the agreement of the year, that the government of the Council of State listed as ultimatum that the feed price should not be increased. The council also provided another ultimatum, namely that one should take away the shipping allowance for fur animal feed. These two things were put as ultimatums to agricultural organisations. If the government wants to end fur farming across the country, one should say so — and then substitute for those affected so that they do not have a financial basis to continue. That would give predictability. I want to say that negotiating with agricultural organisations from the ultimatum is unheard of, and it doesn't stand the light of day. It would appear that agriculture had put the ultimatum in the negotiations. Then there had been a riot. The premium for lambs’ lettuce has been changed. One has changed the time of payment. The government's saving money. Such changes are consistent for the benefit of the country. Agriculture is losing – this year it is the sheep farmers. It is good that the recognition of this system becomes more known, making it more difficult to carry out such operations next year. If you had moved the payout time back in time, then you would have heard a noise coming from the government. It costs more for the state, would that be said. A negotiator on the will of Storting. No one in Stortinget has said that one will weaken food security, that one will increase income differences, no, one talks about having more food security, about removing income differences. But what happens is the exact opposite. So over time, one has given the impression that food security needs to be increased, that income differences need to be weakened. That's the opposite, and it's this cover-up that undermines the negotiating institute. It is therefore important that we have a debate about it, so that it can gain greater credibility and so that we can gain confidence in the system. It is absolutely essential that this should continue. The veils must end. It has to stop saying one thing – and then the result is something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1198	I would like to make a explanation of vote so far from the Labour Party, but first some comments. First, I have to say that after this debate and the discussion of the agricultural settlement of the year, we must at least conclude that the Stortinget is calling about the negotiating institute. I think that's right. That is one of the main conclusions of the debate, in my opinion. But I don't like the fact that from Stortinget's pulpit one of the negotiating parties has chosen to break. Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers have no opportunity to defend themselves here. I believe that when calling about the negotiating institute, I would just like to stress once again that this must mean – in the case of those organisations that support it, which contribute to negotiations and ensure that the State interacts well with the voluntary sector, among others. – that you also respect the more solar right to draw the conclusions you want. And if you do it for many years in a row, it's their more sunny place. From the Labour Party's side, I would like to say that we have had – and have – great use of both trade unions in agriculture, historically, but that we will also have it in the future. The representative of Trellevik said something about the Workers' Party not saying that simplification is simplification. Then he must have misunderstood us. We're just saying that simplification is simplification, but it's aggravation that's not simplification. And when measures are taken to eliminate subsidies to make it easier for food producers, there is a deterioration — not simplification. It might be a little bit hard to understand, but we're going to have to do more laps on it, if necessary. I would also like to say that next to the negotiating institute – which must have strengthened itself through this discussion – the question of farmers' income is also one of the conclusions of this debate that I believe the government, the government apparatus and the government parties must note. In my opinion, it is clear from a majority in the European Parliament that it is important, both to increase recruitment, to increase food production and to increase the possibilities of using the most suitable area, that we are also able to close the income gap. It's a very important part of this debate, at my discretion. I would also like to say that if you read the comments, it is also clear from the majority that major structural changes are not taken into account in the agricultural settlement – the majority of people want to take part in the announcement of the gross domestic product. What we see from the Workers' Party is particularly important: then you have an opportunity to see the tools together, so you don't take out anything that we know can have great consequences for anything else. Then, on behalf of the Labour Party, we will support the Greens' first proposal, i.e. proposal No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1217	To the previous speaker's information, I would say that the income gap is exactly what we close. He should have realised that the trend of income in agriculture has been better now than in any case over the previous eight years. We should, of course, deal with the realities. Otherwise, we have learned in the debate that the facts are defined by the Centre Party: it is not the Ministry of Agriculture or official statistics that reflect facts, nor is simplification when it comes to simplifying public procedures and bureaucracy. It is a strange form of debate, I think. We have also heard that agricultural policy is a success story that the Labour Party is tired of hearing about, because they are tired of hearing about the results of their own policies. So I think the debate has been primarily influenced by the fact that it cracks in every direction of what was former partners in government. You shoot with a tail on a target that you don't know if you're willing to shoot down anymore, and you can't accept that many of the arrows actually start pointing in the right direction. You make loose statements and black paints out of no root in reality or no root in alternatives. It's the serious thing. You just don't accept that a lot of the statistics indicate that you're going in the right direction. I mean, there's been a lot of good grip. But as we approach the end of the debate, there is one thing that really needs clarification, and that's what happened in the line change with SV's Karin Andersen, where she said SV will reintroduce the roofs of production. It's a pretty dramatic signal if it were to be done. This will mean hitting those who are now betting, those who are now investing for the future, those who have faith in the future. They're being targeted. And I miss a clarification from the Workers' Party, especially in the light of Ingrid Heggø's posts, where she was on the same track. I want a clarification on: will the Workers' Party and the Center Party reverse the removal of the roof? In my opinion, Norwegian agriculture is going to have an objective of increased food production, and it is also missing what really stimulates professional farmers, namely to allow them to adapt their production as they find it best. What we have done is to discriminate against large production a little less, I agree, but we are still stimulating small production as well – we are busy with small and large uses around the country. But will the Central Party and the Workers' Party reintroduce the roof that was? I think that'll be an interesting debate out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1226	I would like to follow up on the previous speech, Gundersen, in terms of SV and their definition of economies of scale, which I never got a response to during the line exchange. We have so-called small, medium-sized and large uses in Norway, but what are these small, medium-sized and large uses? Is there something that we're defining by area? Is there something that we're defining by the number of animals? Or is there something that we define after income from the use? That's kind of interesting, because there's a lot of so-called small use in some 40-50 targets that run with, among other things. niche production – are gardens, farm tourism, green care, etc. – and has from a usable to a good income because there is an industry to produce. They produce food and meat, and then they drive something back, and this again allows them to concentrate on farming. To say that a use that has a very good income from this, is a small use, I do not actually agree. There are people who have been able to use the resources that the farm has, and they will have all the honor of it, but to call it a little use, I do not agree. Many of these uses have very little cultivated land, but they have some land resources. They take advantage of this in a phenomenal way and make money on it. Look at the farmer in the Gudbrand valley who drives his cows, the mammal, inwards on the mountain by horse. People pay to be with and drive inwards. It's making good use of their resources. And don't say that this is some small usage, that I absolutely disagree with. These do a phenomenal job, and they rate on agriculture, although they have ‘small’ use. And then a little bit more: this with milk regions has been mentioned. Now it's out of the deal, but SV said a little about it in the reply. It's not like that, even though we combine some regions, it's necessarily going to be larger interconnected areas to grow the soil. If we had the concern that this would accumulate in the flatlands, it would have happened today, too, with the structure we have today. Let me mention Uppland and Hedmark: the production of milk is not carried out in the Solør area or in the Hadeland area, where one has large, continuous areas of cultivated soil. It's happening in the Østerdalen, in the Gausdal and in the Gudbrand valley, because it's where you have the professional environments, and that's where you have the opportunity to do it. So there won't be any change, even if we get a little bit bigger regions. The change will result in more trading of allowances and that is an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1242	Here's something that there's reason to comment. The representative of Omland pointed out that there has been a weak trend in income in the last two years. The fact is, one cannot remember the last time you had such a strong income development in agriculture — in 2014 7.6 pst. In 2015 it is estimated to be 8.7 pst. The representative Heggø said that if we're going to have less power, we're going to have to bet on the Western farmer. I am to bet on the Western farmer, but the West is one of the most used areas in the country, in addition to North Norway – for information. I'm very aware of what the representative Arnstad was into, these 60,000 decks in Trondelag. We follow this closely from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and of course we will do it in the future. The representative, Pollestad, was in this with a very good deal of facts. When we first used numbers last autumn, we were very clear that the numbers were preliminary. So the numbers have gradually become final. The fact is, if you look at Innovation Norway funds — which I talked about — their use was higher in the first half of 2014. In 2015, they were used up in parts of the country. Then it's like you've had a huge investment over many years in pigs, chicken and eggs. There have sometimes been some challenges with the market balance, so that investments are now primarily in milk and sheep, for which we have also seen a great increase in interest. That's very good. All those who are concerned with the increased use of Norwegian resources should be pleased with the developments now taking place within the sheep population, to which the adoption of last year’s Stortingen decision has contributed a great deal. In the case of soil: more is being cultivated. In 2014, the cultivation of 17 000 deer was authorised. Redisposal was slightly over 5,000, that was so far above what was in 2013. But since it began to measure this, in 1976, there has never been any redisposal of less soil before than in the last two years. As for how many people have left the industry, it was said that there was going to be a race of farmers who would disappear, because you didn't believe in the future. So it's only one year since 2012 that so few have left the industry – 1.8 pst. It's a sign that a lot of people want to be on the go. I understand very well – in the end – that it hurts the centre party that things are going relatively well, that there are more people applying for the natural sciences, that the search for livestock on Ås increased by 69 pst. this year. I don't think this should be a problem; it should be something that we're very happy about together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1263	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1266	It's claimed that I'm dealing with bad sources. For the number of years of breakage with Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers, the source is the final protocol from the settlement. In the case of re-disposal of food, the source is KOSTRA. In the case of the quantity of cultivated land, the source is the Directorate of Agriculture. As regards the fall in investment, the source is Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug, who has a brilliant office. As regards the source of the loss of small and medium-sized applications, the report of the Directorate of Agriculture is that of small and medium-sized applications. There should be no doubt about that. Then maybe I'm underestimating the voters a little bit, because I don't understand: when the council says to the NRK that it's being invested like never before, I thought that the voters might not understand that then there is a demand for innovation Norway funds for the first six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1273	I think it's full of confusion about what, for example. The party of progress really stands for it. First of all, they talk about the full-time user, that the use will be much bigger, and that one will get more and more paid as one gets bigger – one would think that those who were the biggest, at least some use was going on – but then you're up here talking nice about the combination user, who is the backbone of Norwegian agriculture. If we're going to keep the earth up and use the land we have across the country, it's the combination user that we have to support. And if they lose support, as the government's and the majority's arrangement is now, and as the last figures have been published by the Directorate of Agriculture, it shows, that the largest is now up to 1.5 million. While all the money has been taken from the smallest, because the framework does not increase, there is no agriculture left to run this multi-syslery. But the backbone of all this great entrepreneurship that is now going on around the countryside, with a combination of travel life, outland, agriculture, culture, art, yes, I don't know what – there are many incredibly good people – is that they actually get paid for the job they do in agriculture. And I haven't heard that the government, the Advance Party and the Right, will increase the frame. This means that the distribution is going to continue, and that the big ones are going to get more and more, and that means that the smaller ones get less and less, and that all of these important food producers and the rural, and agricultural, and food, and travel, and culture, and I-not-know-what entrepreneurs are going to get less. The sum of this is negative. The proposals we are making, and the criticisms we have against this agreement, we share with the trade unions. This is not a description SV has found. This is a description that the trade unions used both last year and this year. And I record that the Farmers found out that they had to enter into this agreement, and what they did in the milk regions in particular was very important. But this direction is wrong. It will lead us to produce less food on Norwegian resources, but that's probably what's different here, that some people think it's okay that this food is produced on power supplies that are not produced in Norway, while SV believes that what we should support and invest in is food produced on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1280	Just some considerations related to the debate: when it is claimed from the Right and from very many others that the farmers are self-employed, it is such that there must be something in that concept. The fact that you are self-employed does not mean, as you can understand from SV's proposals and SV's rhetoric, that you are government food producers. Self-employed means that the farmer runs a small enterprise and manages his resources in relation to who is to do the work, what tools to use, and what investments to make this production, in the way you want to, on an independent basis. And that's a part that falls completely away when you listen to SV and how they're going to put up their agricultural policy. They also ignore the fact that there are actually good and less good farmers. Some of them are nice and some of them aren't quite so good, and there's also an impact on income. There is also something that is completely erased when SV talks about agricultural policy. So initially, agreement has been reached between the parties. Then we come to Stortinget, where SV says that we cannot accept this, the negotiating parties have agreed, we cannot accept that, we must send the settlement back to the government. In other words, SV here is winding up the negotiating institute, and it must be justified in their view of the farmer as a state-owned food producer who does not know his own best, where the authorities – and at all costs the Stortingen – are to enter and negotiate on behalf of those producers. It is with respect not to report as we do in Norway. So a last thought about it with climate friendliness: you try here to create the impression that large uses are not climate friendly, but that small uses are climate friendly. Very familiar we don't have a good knowledge of it, and I think in fact that in a debate it should be easy to argue that a lot of use, which runs a little more efficiently, can also go into a plus in a climate accounting. So the part of the debate today that's been about climate change hosted, the big uses that we can get, and the climate friendly little uses, I think, in fact, is much more nuanced than what we've seen here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1292	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1295	Today's agricultural policy is based on three main pillars: low interest rates and state-funded operating buildings, cheap imported power feed, and increasing dependence on government budget appropriations for those who run large. This is unsafe, and the big forest that someone here is trying to build will be unsafe when you don't have a protective forest. More and more people admit it. SV will reintroduce production add-ons. Yes, seafaringly, because it is based on the understanding that market prices are to safeguard the economies of scale, and the appropriations are to ensure what market prices do not get. And it is in particular that the business party on the right, which is talking about seafaring traders, does not understand these contexts and understand using market prices such as one gives the impression in all other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1302	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1305	The representative, Karin Andersen, said that the trade unions disagree with much of what is in the agreement. Yes, I think the state is too, but the trade unions have concluded an agreement, and no one forced them. It would have been nice to hear from the director of the Bondelag if they were forced to conclude this agreement. I strongly doubt that they were. Then the representative Karin Andersen also says that the biggest earns the most. Yes, those who produce the most also earn the most. This also applies to the combined use. Those who work a lot and produce a lot – whether it is food or services – they earn well, and they have to be allowed to do so, because the purpose of agriculture is for them to produce food and earn what they produce! So I wonder, is it really the envy that someone in agriculture is earning well, running SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1312	We are getting closer to the end of a debate where everything has really been about increasing food production, and it is an overall goal for this room that we should increase food production over the next 20 years, as was stated in the debate on the ‘Agriculture and Food Policy – Welcome to the table’ in 2012. The Greens have proposed proposal No. 22, requesting that a plan be drawn up setting out concrete objectives for increased food production based on Norwegian resources and that the objectives be incorporated into the new agricultural notification. I would ask that it be turned into a transmission proposal. From the way I see it, there will be unanimity around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1319	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1322	When representatives have no factual arguments, they come across the same old prejudices that those who want to pursue a good policy of distribution are envious. This matter is simply about taking a little seriously what the government and the Progress Party said – that this should be more and more seagoing business. Then you'd think that the biggest ones could do their seas. But no then – the biggest will get more and more, while the smallest will get smaller and smaller. A large volume, as Lundtigen said, must be taken out into the market – the price of it and its coverage – while the state’s task is to secure the smallest, secure the first annual work and ensure that we operate on all the land we have in the country. If we're going to be able to increase food production on Norwegian resources, if we're going to be able to have food production across the country, as everyone says, it doesn't work as the government and the majority do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1327	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1330	I'm sorry. I totally misunderstood. I thought the government's task was to facilitate the conditions for us to produce as much food as possible, but it is clear that it is not SV's intention. That's why we have made some changes in the structure and made sure that the more you produce, the more you get paid. The more food you give to the Norwegian people, the better you get for this. It helps to increase food production, and that's what's meant. It also contributes to the maintenance of Norwegian agriculture. That is the whole point of the agricultural settlement – to ensure that we have a Norwegian agriculture that produces Norwegian food for Norwegian consumers. And the jam I can think that later we can produce for export as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1335	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1349	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1356	It is a unanimous committee that expresses satisfaction that the parties have agreed on an agreement and indicates that the framework of 113 million. kr is an increase of 1,5 million. Compared to the current agreement after the adopted budget for 2015. The negotiations have been conducted in accordance with the provisions laid down in the 1993 Main Agreement for reindeer management, with the main objective of developing the reindeer management industry into a rational and market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. A unanimous committee welcomes the fact that the contracting parties consider it important to continue to stimulate real market production and value creation, so as to provide the best possible facilities for reindeer operators whose main activity is reindeer. In parts of Finnmark, there are still challenges related to the relationship between grazing pressure and grazing basis, and on the basis of reindeer figures as of 31 March 2014, there were districts that remained above their fixed upper reindeer figure. Pursuant to the Decision of the Reinholding Board of February 2013 on time-limits for the reduction in the number of units, the reduction is to be implemented by 31 March 2015. Therefore, there is reason to pay attention to the notification of reindeer management for the 2014-2015 operational year, where the status of Finnmark actual reindeer is available as of 31 March 2015. In the spring of 2015, the government started working on a report on sustainability in reindeer management. The work triggers consultation obligations on measures in the communication that could have a direct impact on the Sami interests, and the Committee is pleased that the government is providing for consultations with the Sameting and NRL in this context. With regard to the reindeer notification, the problem here is the cross-cutting objective and unclear management of some issues that need to be addressed. We, who have been working on reindeer operations for a few years, remember a national audit report that pointed out precisely these problems. The sustainability indicator stands as a central tool in this way. The Committee reiterates that reindeer management is in a unique position, with potential demand far exceeding the potential of production. This means that the potential for value added is far higher than that currently being exploited. The Committee is therefore pleased that the reindeer management agreement for 2015/2016 provides specific incentives for increased production. It also involves investing in infrastructure such as pooling and slaughtering fences and the organisation of increased market work. For us who have been following the reindeer drift and the policy around it for some years, it is not difficult to express more optimism on behalf of the industry. A real emphasis on the ecological sustainability target gives the industry a real opportunity to develop in a positive direction. This creates predictability for practitioners who in many other industries are considered a prerequisite for operations. However, I must fire in that there are still things to grips with. The conflict between predatory game and industry is not difficult to spot. It is therefore in its place to stress that the robberies agreement that was adopted in this house obliges the government to delegate power to a more local level. Members of the Business Committee met last week with actors from the Southern Sami part of the industry. Signals they give indicate that this delegation has not actually taken place. This puts practitioners in a situation where they do not find that the administration has a real point of contact that sees the problems the industry is really facing. This is a situation that needs to be clarified immediately. The desire of the majority for a more local management of the predatory game policy will be implemented. The Committee agrees with the Government of the negotiated reindeer management agreement for 2015/2016 and that it provides the basis for increased earnings, increased value creation of each reindeer. At the same time, the agreement continues the rotation of the instruments in recent years, with emphasis on nutrition and the organisation of the main reindeer activities. This is the broad political consensus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1377	I should perhaps start by saying that I am very happy that we have got an agreement in this area as well. I could have signed it so that I could say all that the rapporteur now explained. But there's a couple of points I want to underline in this. Several of us see the reindeer as an unusually important part of taking care of a culture and a people in Norway, both north and south. Even if it's erased, not all of them are reindeer lovers, it's a very important part of a culture that we have every reason to ring. Then I would like to stress what the rapporteur was also involved in, and as I think the government well describes in the proposition we're dealing with, that we're totally dependent on getting a more rational and market-oriented industry. Consider the potential of this industry. I think most of us would think that the product you can finally eat is a delicacy that we could have exploited far more in this country. Then we're in a win-win situation, both when it comes to taking care of culture and nutrition, and when we think about ecology and sustainability. That is why I fully agree with the case rapporteur that the government still has to do everything it can to help achieve ecological sustainability in this industry. This means that the work done, which has also been done, and which is to be done, related to the reindeer number, cannot be underestimated. It's really quite strange that you haven't been able to do more in this area in all these years, considering the potential that's in the industry. I hope we see another situation quite quickly now. Then I would particularly draw the attention of the Council of State to the situation of the southern exams located at Elgå, in their language called the Svahken site. They have recently been in Stortinget, as the rapporteur was in the Chamber. I know the environment well. They are a very vulnerable group in Norway. In terms of both language and culture, there's a lot of work to try to take care of this culture, and for their reindeer, I think there's a reason to call out a warning, and I'm doing it now. These together are, in my opinion, part of the reindeer that has very much adapted to regulation, and that have accepted that the big community must put some restrictions on how reindeer operations are carried out, especially on volume. But it's a big challenge for them that, in terms of production in kilograms, you have a decrease of 30 pst. in recent years, which is very much attributable to the situation of predators which are almost unsustainable. After all, this is outside the agricultural zone and the measures in place to ring around the predatory game. They are struggling with both wolf and bear, and I believe, as the case-rapporteur also pointed out, that one is totally dependent now on going into this area and looking at what kind of instruments can be put in place, in particular measures against local administration in the area of killing, on which the representative Bakke-Jensen was involved, but also what kind of compensation scheme can meet their needs. I must say that part of the compensations and arrangements we have, related to this, because these seem to be far on the way inadequate. That's why I want as much as I can, encourage the government to have a special look at this. The council should take a trip to Elgå.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1388	I will say that I fully agree with the previous two comments, which were very good. I would also like to take the floor to underline the relatively dramatic situation of Southern Sami culture, to which we have an international commitment. They now experience that despite the predatory game agreement, they all have four large predatory species inside their area. They have breeding bears, and they have wolves, which affects slaughter weight – it affects everything. It's pretty dramatic to have these animals during the calving period. It's quite devastating for an entire diet. We got – both Storberget, Bakke-Jensen and I – a vivid explanation of the stress this puts on the practitioners, and I would strongly urge you to focus on this situation. In fact, Southern Sami culture is something that we have an international obligation to take care of. It's small, it's vulnerable, and it's made up of relatively few practitioners, as the representative Storberget also said correctly. They have adapted, they operate sustainably, they operate according to all the guidelines they have, but experience a totally unsustainable situation in the management of predatory game.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1397	Clean operations are exploiting the land resource and have a high potential for increased value creation through their particular products. The industry is an important cultural carrier in the Sami culture. The use of resources in an ecologically sustainable way is a prerequisite for industry’s existence and legitimacy. Therefore, access to land must be ensured for the industry and the reindeer must be adapted to the resource base of the grazing area. The centre batch will help the industry to exploit the high potential of value creation that exists by improving the sale and marketing of highly processed reindeer products. In addition, business opportunities include: cultural dissemination and tourism. The State pointed out in its offer that a policy objective is to develop the reindeer industry as a rational, market-oriented industry, sustainable from a long-term perspective. In this context, the offer provided for the organisation of the main reindeer operators. The State indicated that in the final phase of the ongoing clean-up process, it is important to maintain the broad lines of the current grant system, where the direct grants are linked to the value of what is produced. This will help to create stability and predictability of the clean-up arrangements. In addition, further support will be given to the reindeer operators following a given reduction decision. The Committee notes that ‘clean operation is in a unique position, with potential demand exceeding the production potential’. And on the other hand, ‘This means that the value added potential is far higher than that currently being exploited. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the 2015/2016 Purity Agreement provides specific incentives for increased production and activities related to travel life and the dissemination of reindeer crops and lifestyles.’ This is the Central Party positive to it. Purgatory is experiencing major challenges today with the loss of animals due to predators, especially bears and yorks. During the calving period, the practitioners experience severe loss of animals due to attacks from the yerv. In order to meet this challenge, increased knowledge of the impact of predatory policies on the reindeer industry and effective measures to reduce predatory conflicts are necessary. An evaluation of the impact of the predatory game agreement on the South Saami business interests is required. At the same time, new measures to reduce conflicts need to be considered. Finally, I would like to express optimism on behalf of the reindeer industry. There are many practitioners and districts currently operating very well, producing large quantities of first-class reindeer meat. The sewerage industry has a high potential for increased value creation and industrial development based on the resources of reindeer management. When, in those parts of Finnland that currently have too high a figure, we get a proper grazing pressure in relation to the resource base through reduced cleanness, this could also provide the basis for increased income. I believe that every opportunity is available to facilitate a viable and forward-looking reindeer business, where the interests of the natural environment, animal welfare and practitioners are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1424	In time, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have become well acquainted with an industry that is unique in national and international contexts. I'm glad we have reindeer in Norway. I have also come to know the Norwegian Reinbryftssamer Landsförbund as a serious actor, who takes care of his role as a negotiator in a good and solution-oriented manner. This has led us to arrive at a clean-up agreement for future contract years that is forward-looking, and facing the challenges facing the industry. The specific challenges facing reprocessing have led the government to conclude that there is a basis for a certain increase in the contractual framework this year. The main objective of the reindeer management agreement for 2015/2016 is to develop the reindeer management industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. In this context, it is important to facilitate the main reindeer activities. At the same time, the industry must not over-remove from its starting point, so that the advantages of the typical forms of expression of the Sami reindeer culture disappear. This involves a balance sheet that can be demanding, but as I believe we have solved in a good way through this year's agreement. I note that the Committee unanimously concludes the agreement and, with it, makes a strong contribution to maintaining the policy of reindeer management. In large parts of the Sami reindeer areas, there is good reindeer management, which provides the basis for high production and value creation. There are many practitioners who look to exploit the potential of reindeer management, which are examples of follow-up and give the industry the positive attention it deserves. The reindeer management agreement for 2015/2016 provides a specific incentive for increased production and activities related to tourism and the dissemination of reindeer-samian culture and lifestyles. The market situation for reindeer meat is very good, and this favours the reindeer industry. It is in a special situation, where the potential for demand is far greater than the potential for production. There are great opportunities for increased value creation. In order to exploit the potential of the industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food wishes to use the reindeer management agreement to facilitate a family-based industry which, through the sustainable use of natural resources, provides stability and good prospects for individual practitioners and for industry as such. All the positive effects of reindeer management are easy to forget, as long as the resource situation in certain areas of Finnmark continues to receive considerable attention. With regard to the process of reducing the reindeer in Finnmark, I don't want to say so much now, in addition to expressing that the process is approaching its final phase, and using the provisions of the Reindeer Act where this appears to be necessary. The instruments of the clean-up agreement are also even greater than previously designed to facilitate the reduction of redundancies. I want to pay tribute to the previous government for the race that was set up. It was both right and important, and we're going to follow this up. As an outdoor industry, with animals grazing all year round, reindeer management is used to tackling challenges such as: climate and natural conditions give rise. It has also always had to live with a certain aspect of predators. However, we now see predatory pressures that are particularly worrying in the southern Sami areas. This is a situation that needs to be taken seriously, and there is ongoing work to determine the factors of loss and cause. I would like to address this specifically with the Minister for Climate and Environment – after I was at the NRL annual meeting last week. Work is now under way on a new roll-out report on reindeer management policy. This will be a very important work, in which the situation in industry, use of instruments and other framework conditions will be further analysed, with a view to facilitating viable reindeer management societies. In this work, Sami interests will be involved in different ways, including: through formal consultations, in accordance with the consultation agreement, to which the Committee points. I look forward to this message being submitted. There is no doubt that we are going to operate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1448	It is good that the Council of State addressed the challenges facing you in the south, and I want to use the line on this. I understand that there is now a work going on to see what the situation is like. I think that's crucial. I also think it is essential to do this very quickly, because it is critical to this culture. Disappearing the opportunities to reindeer in this area, I'm afraid it really lights up a red light for many of the cultural aspects of this. My questions are: How quickly does the Council of State look at working in order to identify the situation and are measures under assessment in the predatory settlement — possibly in addition to the predatory settlement — in order to remedy the situation facing reindeer operators in the south?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1457	The new Minister for Climate and Environment has been addressed by increasing the pace of action, for example: to authorise the felling of predators. You see an improvement in the situation, but then it's clear, as you describe it here, that there are major challenges to it. This is a matter in which, of course, I want to have close contact with the Minister for Climate and Environment to try to find a solution. How fast it will go is always a challenge to say. But that I am going to keep the pressure up in this matter, there should be no doubt about it. Then we also know that in the deal that lies on the side of the Storting – you must have both predators and grazing animals – it is demanding to find the right balance. I promise to follow this up and do the best I can to make the situation better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1464	I thank you for your answer. That's good. But I still want to add a comment to this. In the existing agreement on predators, which may be challenging to deal with too many – both batches, individuals and nutritionists – there is a clear expectation that when a group of nutritionists come into such an acute situation as I find that the southern samples are in, where one gets a wild game press then to those degrees, one must, just in order to ensure the legitimacy of very much of the predatory game policy, be able to put in place effective bottling quite quickly, and, of course, a decision on this. And, not least, if there is damage, it is in the nature of the predatory settlement that one should seek a long way to remedy it. So I'm going to use the opportunity to encourage the Council of State to maybe take the Minister of the Environment, go to this area during the summer and see if there's any chance of getting to something, because I also think a broad majority of the Biggest... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1470	If I and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment get time to travel there this summer, we'll see. In any case, it is clear that this is something we have to deal with, and of course I will deal with that with the Minister for Climate and Environment. We've discussed these things before, too, because it's not just in the Southern Sami areas that predators are a problem. As I said, I was at the NRL annual meeting on Friday. This is a problem you experience all over the country. In other parts of the country, the king eagle is the challenge. It was not previously included in the monitoring programme, but it is now. This is absolutely something that the industry is now facing, and that we have to try to fix something in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1477	Norwegian reindeers experience that thousands of animals are taken by predators. In the predatory agreement, the importance of the responsibility we have towards the Sami industry, the Sami cultural protection that reindeer is. Now, in the Central Party, we have put forward seven proposals to reduce predatory pressures in the reindeer pastures. If the government now wants to meet any of these proposals, they have guaranteed a majority. Will Listhaug, as Minister of Economic Affairs, be open and meet the Centre Party, which can improve the measures for reindeer operators in predatory areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1484	Now it is the climate and environment minister who is dealing with questions related to predatory policies, so it will be she who is initially going to deal with these kinds of issues. What is important to me is to make sure that we have the interests of the grazing industry and also the reindeer industry high on the agenda. We have annual meetings with the predators in the different regions, and they have given feedback that it feels like it's an improvement. You get faster permission, and the processes go faster, but of course there's a little bit left before you can say you're satisfied. In this question, I think you'll never be completely satisfied, because, as I was about to say, there are two different considerations that have to be taken care of here, which in turn make great feelings, that is, this with predators versus grazing animals. I certainly believe that the representative of the Battle of Vedum knows the challenges involved, and we are going to try to do our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1491	When the leader of the NRL called for as clear a warning as he did in the national media a few weeks ago, when he said that predators ‘trues’ – that was the word used – parts of the Norwegian reindeer industry, the reindeer minister should see which warning lights actually light up, and also sound an internal alarm in the government. The unique thing now is that you've got a menu of tightening-up measures for which you know you're getting a majority in the Storting. So then my question to the reindeer Minister: Has the reindeer Minister called into question internally in the government that the predatory policy that is now managed by the Minister for Climate and Environment could threaten parts of Norwegian reindeer management, and said that now you are getting a majority for any tightening that you want to strengthen Norwegian reindeer management?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1498	I have, of course, close contact with the Minister for Climate and Environment on all questions related to the predatory situation. What we're trying to balance in a good way, it's the predatory deal that a unanimous collapse has made for some years ago. We want, and try, to follow it in a good way. I record that the robbers, where the centre party is well represented – I can say – also believe that there has been an improvement after the new government joined. And then I realize that these different interests are hard to reconcile. There are strong feelings in turn, and it will still be, but we'll try to balance it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1503	Knowing the grazing grounds for the reindeer owners is absolutely fundamental if we're to have proper management. The 2007 Act on Reinforcement states that the government is to establish a grazing basis. The grazing grounds are not yet established. Can the Minister say when we will have the proposal on grazing grounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1508	There is a demanding question in some parts of the country. What I can say, at least, is that we are going to present a reintroduction message that will address different parts of the challenges facing the industry, as well as the opportunities you see. I have to say, for my own part, that I see tremendous opportunities for this industry in the future, and if we are doing our best to bring about the scale adjustment, it will benefit the industry, and increased slaughter weights will generate increased revenues. It will benefit the animals, we don't let animals starve and thus experience poor animal welfare, and then it's good for Norwegian consumers because it will give us more meat, which is much sought after. So I think it's important that we get there, and then we're going to deal with other questions in the reindeer notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1513	I did not think the minister entirely answered the question. When implementing e.g.: Slaughtering in these areas where the basis is as shallow as it is in certain parts of the country, it is possible to have a proper basis and to know who has grazed too much, and who has not bitten too much, who has expanded, and who has not. Then it's to have a grazing foundation completely fundamental. Absence of this has caused several cleaners to feel unfairly treated in the slaughter process that is currently taking place. Would there be any proposal for a definition of the grazing basis in the message that the minister is now notifying?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1518	I don't think it's as simple as just saying that you're going to have a bite there, and you're going to have it there, in a big message. It's a very demanding question, but of course we should touch on how we're going to get on with that work. So it's like, when you've been sitting and distributing side shares and looking at who's going to decrease, and who's on the right base, you've also looked at the extent to which you're grazing. It is an important premise for the work that has now been done by the Rein driftstyrelsen and Rein driftsammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1528	I chose to take the word after the substitution because I wanted answers to some of these questions. First, cleaning is an important industry in much of the country. Like all industries, she has significant environmental impacts. And then there's a dimension in this that never has to be forgotten: Reindrift is also an important cultural industry in many Sami areas, and that means that interfering with this industry requires a little bit more of us at Stortinget, it requires a little bit more wisdom in managing. The fact that it's an important cultural nourishment means that we have to have a lack of nutrition. There can be no number of actors, because if there are few actors, there are few who have access to the industry. We need a lack of actors to ensure that there are many in the Sami regions that can have access to the industry. In fact, if there are few actors, it is no longer a cultural industry. So, if a person recognises that this is a cultural industry, he has to work to make it a diverse industry with many actors, many of whom have access to the industry. That must be the starting point for our discussions. I am concerned that the killing that is going to happen – a killing – must be done in a viable way. It's very important in this work to get this industry into a more ecological direction. But then, the measures we take must be proper and fair – do not make sure that fewer people have access to this important industry in the Sami regions. That's what I think is being seen at the top in the case of West Finland. In West Finland we know that it has been a great overpopulation of pure. Maybe that's where in the country the problem is the biggest. For this reason, the Reind driftstyrelsen has decided that one should go in for a shutdown of nearly 50 pst. of all the reindeer in the area. It's a rather drastic act, and it's probably necessary. But then the question is, how should a person do this? Should a frame be all the same, or should it be different? Firstly, the government is based on the last year of the slaughter, not on historical reintals that each reindeer or side party has had over time, but only in the last year of the operation. One could, for example: 10 years ago, or 20 years ago, to find a more representative basis, but one takes only the last year of operation. Thus, a very random effect is obtained with regard to who is to be slaughtered. That means that those who may have been nice to the flock will be rammed, while those who have taken care of themselves will be frame considerably less than they should have been. And then we get to the grazing ground -- because this is hard to do without a fixed grazing basis. To me, what the Minister says is that what the Stortinge decided in the law on reindeer management cannot be implemented – that it is simply too difficult to establish a grazing basis. But we know that this – as far as I know – is done in our neighbouring country, so I think that it has to be able to solve it in Norway in a similar way, and clarify the grazing basis. Because once you have clarified the grazing basis, you will intervene with coercive slaughter, when it comes to making this industry more resilient, it will be a much simpler task. This will avoid conflict with the European rules on human rights and the fact that interventions in the industry of some practitioners are becoming much, far greater than what is for the benefit of society. Finally, I just want to say that what's unclear in the message is how the government wants to make this industry more diverse, that is, how to make sure that the most possible in the Sami environment that it is in, and that is dependent on reindeer, is given access. Because what we know is that the fewer players there are and the harder they have to slaughter, the more likely they are to shut down their operations. So the smaller actors are the first to disappear. How will the government ensure, in its fight for the environment and ecology, that a non-destructive access to an important cultural industry? There are questions that have not been addressed in this review, and I miss it from the minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1548	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1551	Norwegian reindeer is a unique industry, one of the most distinctive industries we have. The industry, although not large in number of annual works, is defining our country, and it is a bearer of the Sami culture – for our only indigenous people. That's why, when we're studying sewage policy, we have to have a little bit more dimensions inside. Item No One is that it is important when we discuss this industry, that we always discuss cultural sustainability in industry and how we can have a business policy that allows one to take care of the traditions that stand so strongly in the Sami culture and that one can gain the generational perspective. Today we are very concerned about it with ecological sustainability, because very often in the discussion of reindeer drift, there is the negative discussion about overgrazing in certain parts of Finnmark that emerges. But what's important to raise in terms of ecological sustainability in Norwegian reindeer feed is the huge loss of pure to predators. According to government figures in the proposition, almost 100,000 animals are lost to predators in a year. It is a major challenge when discussing ecological sustainability, and it is a responsibility that rests on us in the Stortinget – and now the government – that we must do something about it. We can't sit and watch that there's so much loss to predators, when we want to have a nourishment that's ecologically sustainable. Where the large community has put in place quite powerful measures to bring about a single-digit adjustment, we should launch equally powerful measures to reduce predators' populations, so that we are less likely to lose predators in the future. But also when one reads the proposition, the third pillar of agricultural policy is economic sustainability. Over time, the earnings in Norwegian reindeer operations have been too low. We had a discussion about the annual incomes of Norwegian agricultural production instead. If we look at the annual revenue in Norwegian reindeer production, they are much, much lower. It is inextricably bad for many professionals in terms of the economic benefits they derive from reindeer management. When the government is about to present a new big message, we need to put forward together a strategy for how we can manage to raise earnings in that industry, so that it becomes economically sustainable for businessmen. With regard to the reindeer management agreement this year – it was an agreement: we are spending little money, 1.5 million. kr., i.e. actually almost a decline when you look at cost developments. In order to obtain the unique meat that reindeer produce, to create added value, I believe that in future we also need to be open to discuss: can we from the public side also help to get that product processed in an even better way? Because it's one of the most unique food products we have in Norwegian food tradition. We have to take care of that, we have to develop it, we have to make sure that young people will go into that industry, and that they too should be able to have the opportunity of a decent income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1564	I won't extend the debate much. But there's an important point in the matter that there's been a big message about the sustainability of the reindeer. When SV believes it is unclear and unclear, it is enough because it has not yet been delivered. It will probably be clearer for us others also when the message comes to processing in Stortinget. There are some important concepts that we might as well spend some time on right now. Prior to the notification, the problems surrounding reindeer operations are such that sustainability indicators should be established. We've just been in this room through a discussion on aquaculture, where we've discussed sustainability indicators. The Purity Act states that reindeer management is required to be economically sustainable, ecologically sustainable and culturally sustainable. The National Audit Office has been quite clear that these objectives are far too far in line, because we have not defined what is contained in the concepts. So it's way too easy to get into the debate with each other's motivation, and then you get crossing goals and it becomes completely impossible for both industry and government to govern after that. So establishing sustainability indicators is an important tool in the message that comes. When the representative Knag Fylkesnes divides to neighbouring countries, they have actually done something in Sweden. It uses – also mentioned by industry in terms of ecological sustainability – calf weight on the ewe calves. How much does an annual earthquake weigh? It says a little bit about what kind of stand the flock is in. In this way, there can also be an indicator of how the grazing basis for different areas is. It is fully possible to use it as an indicator. When SV raises the number of actors as an indicator of whether there is sustainability in the industry, I must be allowed to warn against it. There's some problem today. When the government of the reindeer management agreement states that it is important to facilitate those who have reindeer operations as their main activity – and the committee fully agrees to do so. One of the issues today is that there are a lot of players who are clean, but who do not have this as a business at all. It makes them not dependent on producing good reindeer meat, they don't depend on slaughtering. There's basically no motivation for them to run professionally, run it as an industry that's going into the future. That's also one of the reasons why we have the problems we see today. Briefly: in the message that comes, sustainability indicators should be carefully worked on, so that it is possible to discuss the real problems of the industry. Then it will be much clearer both for me and for the representative Knag Fylkesnes next time we discuss the staging message in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1579	It was of course the reindeer management agreement I am talking about in this round – and it is clear to the confused Hill-Jensen. There's one thing I wonder about when it's about what Hill-Jensen said. The Berekraft criterion is the change that Bakke-Jensen draws into this debate. I'm in agreement. The lack of actors is also an indicator of sustainability, culturally speaking. Access to the industry is crucial, i.e. how much access people have to this industry – if it is a cultural industry. If we view this as a cultural industry, it's a key indicator. I cannot believe and understand that anyone in this room can disagree with such a reasoning. So it would be interesting to see on the right about Bakke-Jensen thinks it's not important to have a variety of operators in the reindeer industry. The point is the growth of the reindeer industry – I still have the advantage of seeing that the bigger the players, the better it is for the industry. For this is a composite industry – both business and culture are at the same time. So one must have a deficiency. So to the grazing ground, it was interesting that Bakke-Jensen pulled out just breeding. When we discussed the production area, the right-hand side was particularly concerned that these production areas could lead to free passengers, that there was an accident, etc. Yes, exactly! Setting a grazing ground will give you a fairer management of these areas. The ground-Jensen can not only be busy with ecology and the environment in this matter, but in the previous case, when it was about the production area for farming, it was an effort to find the balance between ecology and each individual trader and to ensure that they are just. It is not just illogical; it is a complete discrimination between two important industries. The grazing ground may well be the basis for defining whether a farm is ecologically viable or not in the reindeer – the production area with all the questions that one will come back to there will be the same for farming. And then we get to hope that this is clear in the message when it comes, and then we also get to hope that the grazing ground is part of this, and that a not only blindly create indicators that can lead to unfair treatment of practitioners and thus challenge both the Constitution and the European Conventions on Human Rights that we know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1594	It might sound a little reckless once you hear about Frank Bakke-Jensen, but I've heard Frank Bakke-Jensen keep a lot of posts in this hall here about reindeer before, and the times that Frank Bakke-Jensen has been talking about cultural sustainability, he's almost always just talked it down, exclusively. We can't do that. We cannot take account of the fact that reindeer management is a support for the Sami culture when we are discussing Norwegian reindeer management policy in the future. When we are going to have a new reindeer management message in Norway, we have a special responsibility when we are going to discuss the industry with the role of Norwegian reindeer management for our Sami culture, which is a strength for the country that we have, and which we all – I hope – want to continue. It's very important, in discussing the reindeer notice, in terms of ecological sustainability, to remember that it's 40 pst. of Norwegian land area — again according to the proposition — affected by Norwegian reindeer farming. We see some major conflicts in power development, in windmill development, in mining and very many other major expansions, which conflict with the areas currently used for clean-up operations. We must also dare to go into this when we are discussing a long-term message for such a unique industry that requires so much land. What kind of boundary corridors are we going to take? How much does it matter? Time and time again, we encounter conflicts in the development of new industries, other types of business, and often the individual reindeer is getting quite weak in the meeting there. We have to make good and predictable procedures around it. As it extends again, it is clear that it also affects whether we are given an economically sustainable nourishment. That's why I'm really afraid, because of some national audit considerations, you're going to simplify the world so much that everything is easy to measure. Clean-up policy is not that simple, and we need to have different objectives. We must have an objective of ecological sustainability, we must have an objective of economic sustainability, but we must also have a goal of cultural sustainability, because the three things are so closely linked and cannot be decoupled. This is probably a reason why we have developed those sustainability goals over time, precisely because there are so complex challenges. If we look at Norwegian political history or the history of the Norwegian state, we also know how many mistakes we have made with regard to the Sami culture, and we also know how many mistakes we have made with regard to various reindeer operators, so we have to go into it with a proper historical humility, but we also have to make guidelines that make it predictable both for those who operate reindeer and for other economic operators in the areas we are going to have reindeer operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1603	The representative Battle Forces Vedum here exhibits almost boundless naivety, about the same naivety as he displayed when he was the Council of State and was responsible for this field. I've never said that we shouldn't focus on cultural sustainability. I have never said that we should not focus on economic sustainability. I've never said that we should not focus on ecological sustainability. First of all, in this room, when Battle Violence Vedum was the Council of State, I asked him to give me a definition of cultural sustainability from a reindeer's side, or from the side of the Sami people. He did not have the ability to do that at the time, and I record that he did not try it this time either. In order for reindeer to be a cultural carrier for the Sami people, reindeer farming must be an industry of which external respect stands. It must be an industry that is ecologically sustainable. If the representative Schlagsvold Vedum believes that the reindeer is capable of being a cultural bearer with countless headlines on the land occupied, countless headlines on conflicts inside the page, countless headlines in the media about the actor against the family member – yes, be so good – I am quite sure that it is not possible. That's why the Riksrevision points out that the three sustainability targets for reindeer operations sometimes collide. They have asked that it be cleaned up. That's why I think it's important to have sustainability indicators, so we can say what the state of the industry is when we discuss ecological sustainability. There shouldn't be just words politicians going around with or using in this room, there's going to be something behind. Therefore, we need sustainability indicators on behalf of the industry, so that the industry can also relate to day-to-day operations. Therefore, calf weight can be an indicator of how it is handled and that flock. If you have good calf weight, well, you have good operation. If you don’t have a good calf weight, things can indicate that you have too many animals and that you don’t have enough pasturage. Then you have to ask, what about the operation of this flock that makes you not get it like the others? These questions have been asked in Sweden and Finland. That's where it works. We have to ask ourselves these questions in Norway, too, so that we can get the industry to grips with them so that they can operate well. That is why it is stated in the government's proposal, and therefore the Committee is unanimous in its call for us to provide facilities for those with the main reindeer activity. It will help the industry become the cultural carrier it has been commissioned to be for the Sami people. That's why we're talking about sustainability goals. It should be clear, not for politicians or in speeches, but it should be clear to the actors who are in the industry how we are going to operate, how we are going to achieve the goals we need to achieve, in order to be also the cultural carrier they are going to be for the Sami people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1618	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1621	I understand that I provoke the Hill-Jensen when I say that we have to dry to think completely when we discuss the reindeer policy. But we have to do that, because there is no doubt that for the Sami culture and the Sami family pattern, reindeer is absolutely crucial. This is also part of what makes us get these challenges. If we are to go in and pursue a sensible reindeer policy, we need to understand what feelings we are making when we take action. If we don't, we're going to bomb. The Norwegian state has done too many times. It is very important to include when we talk about the challenges of overgrazing that were addressed here, that it does not apply in all parts of Norwegian reindeer farming, this is in certain areas. We must not spend an entire diet because of the challenge of overgrazing in certain areas, and we want a scale adjustment to make it more sustainable. It is a great shame that we have a great responsibility – and the government has a great responsibility now – because there is too much predatory pressure, which means that many in all parts of the reindeer suffer unnecessary losses, when you could have had another majority here in the Storting that had taken down predatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1630	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1633	When Bakke-Jensen shoots from his hip, one may have apologized. The representative refers to the industry in singular terms, as if this were a problem everywhere. It's easy to see that some places are not a problem, some places are a big problem, so it's not possible to talk about the reindeer industry in terms of singularity. Here is the real problem to be solved. Other places are good cooperation and other relationships, and there it works well. It seemed important to me that Bakke-Jensen takes her further into her activities. Finally, none of the criteria imposed by the representatives of Bakke-Jensen ensures a lack of industry. The representative Bakke-Jensen began by saying that he was very concerned that this is a cultural industry. Each of the criteria he embraces so much, and each of them is the touching care of the individual practitioners as the Hill-Jensen showed, for example. in connection with the rearing message? We can't find that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1640	Well, you'll find that care here. This concern can be found in the sustainability indicators. When we can say that it and the performer are doing this job right, and when we can say that it and the performer have good operation, you drop headlines where everyone is cut over one comb. This is not unknown, this is a daily debate in my county, where districts are facing districts, and where today we have no opportunity to say that the district is doing a good job, and that district is not doing a good job. Because we haven't finished the definition of cultural sustainability, and we haven't finished the definition of ecological sustainability. We cannot say that the district that has taken down its flock and today delivers so and so high an average calf weight, has done a good job and has a good operation. However, such indicators can be fully delivered. At that time, care is taken for the individual reindeer and the individual area, because those who run well are given an opportunity to defend themselves, and you do not allow everyone to be cut over one comb.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1646	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1660	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1667	This SV representative proposal proposes a permanent compensation mechanism to reduce the financial loss suffered by some after the introduction of the default reform. The proposers claim that when the reform is lost, it is contrary to the Storting's assumptions for the reform. The proposers support the government’s transitional regime, but SV believes that it is not comprehensive enough and therefore asks for extended and permanent compensation schemes. The reform was adopted by a unanimous increase in 2011 and entered into force on 1 January of this year. The reform is a political joint venture. The purpose of the reform was to make it easier to combine work and disability for those who have a varied course of illness but who are able to work for periods. At the same time, disability reform would ensure a good income for those who are unable to work. The new benefit is now taxed as a salary and, in order to compensate for increased tax, the new gross benefit is higher than the old disability pension. In the tax proposition presented in 2012–2013 by the Stoltenberg II government, it appeared that there would be something worse going on with the reform – and I quote from the vote: ‘Increased tax resulting from taxing as employee income is compensated for by increased gross underperformance, so that new employees on average come out somewhat better than current tax rules. Persons with incomes and/or deductions other than standard deductions may receive slightly higher or lower post-tax income as a result of the taxation of benefits as remuneration. Persons with a higher level of income who are not currently subject to the taxation rules will get worse.» In the context of the 2015 state budget, the government of Solberg therefore proposed a transitional arrangement to facilitate the implementation of the reform for those who would lose the most on the conversion, in particular in view of the low performance and high debt. This proposal was unanimously endorsed by Stortinget. At the beginning of the year, the members of the Committee received numerous enquiries from the disabled, who were paid less after the introduction of the reform. The Committee therefore took the initiative to debate the implementation of the reform and its follow-up in the EEA. Figures from the Tax Directorate show that 188 000 people have received an increase in net income after the introduction of the reform, while 127 000 have received some reduced net income. For the vast majority of those who have received a reduced net income of more than NOK 6000 per year, the transitional arrangement enters into effect. 14,000 people are not covered by the transitional regime and they will lose slightly more than NOK 6000 per year. This applies to persons who have occupational retirement provision or other pension not derived from social security, cf. what I quoted, and as it was explained in Prop. 1 LS for 2012–2013. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Government of the Revised State Budget has proposed to extend the transitional regime by reducing the income reduction limit for those covered, from NOK 6000 to NOK 4000 per year. With the proposal, approx. 10 000 more people who do not receive tax deductions, and the 30 000 who are already covered by the transitional scheme will receive additional tax relief. Those who want to get better are those with the lowest income – today’s minimum pensioners with debts, low and medium disability pensioners who also receive occupational pension, disabled with child allowances, graded disability rates lower than two thirds and spouses at low rates on the special supplement. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party support the Government's proposal in the revised budget for 2015 on the extension of the transitional arrangements for debt-inflicting, but the Labour Party at the same time refers to its own draft revised budget for 2015. A unanimous committee agrees with the proposers that the government must look at the welfare systems and care services on which gross income is used for the payment of accruals, in order to avoid excessive accruals due to higher gross benefits. With regard to the State housing aid scheme, the Committee is pleased that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has explained how the Government intends to promote its own business in the Stortinge to ensure that no one will lose housing support as a result of the under-reform, as stated above. Document No 15-780 for 2014-2015. The implementation of the reform and the conversion of taxes are complex. It is not possible to get a full overview of the tax consequences and other consequences of the reform before the tax settlement for 2015 has been completed. The Committee is unanimous in this matter with the exception of SV. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the parties are united on the subject of disability reform. In the own-initiative debate, we were clear that if there were any unintended effects, we would follow developments and take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1700	I think the rapporteur has explained very well the content of the matter. The size of the population has adopted a reform that is firmly rooted, a reform that makes it easier to combine social security and work. Those who were disabled before the reform were to be guaranteed a payment almost as before, but on the basis of a number of requests from persons with a previous disability pension who felt less paid after 1 January 2015, the Committee, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, took the initiative to engage in a wide-ranging debate on the effects of the new disability reform. It took place in Stortinget on 7 April this year. The issue in that debate was whether it is already possible to identify any impact of the reform that was not foreseen at the time the Stortingen decided to convert from disability pension to disability benefit. Another issue was to distinguish indirect effects of the malformation from the majority of direct cuts in other benefits, such as basic and auxiliary support, child supplements and car assistance. At the same time, a Joint Committee recognises that it is hardly possible to obtain a full overview before the tax settlement for 2015 has been considered. But we already know something. The government itself took the initiative in the 2015 budget for a transitional mechanism for persons with low performance and high debt, which was backed by a total increase. The minority, including the Workers' Party, asked the government to come back with an assessment of a more permanent scheme. The majority voted in favour of this proposal, but asked the government to follow developments closely, as the rapporteur also explained. In the light of the initiative debate in the United Kingdom on 7 April, the government presented a proposal in the revised budget for 2015 which extended the scope of the transitional regime, reducing potential losses for the group of debtors from NOK 6000 to NOK 4000. In the budgetary procedure for 2015, indirect effects of increased gross underperformance on paid housing aid were also assessed. In accordance with the wishes of an aggregate increase, the government has informed Stortinget that the necessary steps have been taken to ensure that no losses of housing support are incurred in 2015 as a result of increased gross disability benefits. The size has also been announced that further measures will be included in the 2016 budget to ensure those who would otherwise have reduced housing support from 2016. The own-initiative debate also raised questions about how increased gross benefits could affect other benefits or self-payments for government and municipal services. The Council of State has responded to something in connection with this proposal for a representative. Other questions remain unanswered. The Workers' Party's opinion on the own-initiative debate was to try to get a certain overview of the situation. At the same time, we asked the Council of State to come back in the context of the revised budget with an overview of what could and should be done, in order to get a better overview and to mitigate any unintended effects. In the vote on the revised budget, the Labour Party has, in line with what has always been our intention, put forward three proposals and stated its comments on the issues we believe should be examined in greater detail. That is the debate we intend to take on Friday when the revised budget is being discussed. In today's case, we therefore agree with the vote that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1719	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for having brought the matter through the committee and also for a good and informative statement here today. I am also pleased that the Socialist Left raises this issue, because this is an important matter that affects many. Then, of course, you can say that raising the matter now is unnecessary all the time the government has already seized on many of the issues raised by the Socialist Left Party, and we are taking further action in revision now on Friday. I believe that most of those who have followed and follow this debate see that there is a cross-political consensus that everyone wants them to do well, they want good and predictable arrangements, but some of the challenge of the whole Stoltenberg reform is: What is basically the story – what was behind when the reform came? For the goal, I think we all share, that we should have a disability benefit that makes it easy to combine work and social security, that those who have no residual working capacity at all should have an income insurance that is worthy and good. But at the same time we have to have a system that makes it always pay to work. The disabled person, who may have some residual working capacity, must be able to use it freely without being afraid that it will go beyond the degree of inadequacy. It's an important premise. But what's one of the challenges further with the deformity reform, or the Stoltenberg reform, is that it was originally presented as a reform that no one was going to lose any weight on. It has been said both from this pulpit and from the media, and therefore I am very pleased that the architect behind the Stoltenberg reform, the Workers' Party, today for the first time in the remarks admits that the reform made it clear that someone was going to lose. It's the same with many adjustments. But what's important, and I'm glad, is that the Council of State has taken the steps he fought for in opposition: putting in a transitional arrangement. It's already in place. It strengthens the government and the majority of the population now, and that's good. But then there are also several other important points that the Socialist Left takes up in the proposal. One goes at the gross limits for other benefits. It is important, because it has never been the intention that other benefits should be affected as a result of the Stoltenberg reform, and I am also pleased that the government has taken action – as the representative Lise Christoffersen was also involved – towards, among others. The house bank. But I think we also have to look at this in a slightly larger perspective, because the living conditions of the disabled are about more than just how much they get paid in disability benefits. It's about the expenses you have. Then you can't look at it in isolation and ignore the other grips that the government and the bulk of the population have done, by reducing taxes, which means that the money you have actually extends to longer. What I hope, then, is that the Socialist Left Party, which is now showing good consideration for the poor, can also participate in and look at the cost side – many people are struggling to get the crowns to stretch to – and that one might rather be somewhat more positive to the government and the majority of the population's desire to reduce the fees and thus improve the conditions for the injured. As I said, this is a major reform. The Progress Party shares the intentions behind the reform, but the reform may have had a sense of urgency, and we have seen a number of bad results since the reform was implemented now on 1 January. Then I am pleased that the government has taken action, and also follow the situation carefully and are ready to take any further action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1736	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good introduction to the matter. This is a reform, and we all know that it is not possible to say that no one is going to lose on a reform. I'll repeat that. We're going from one system to another system, and then one will come out differently. But I would like to stress what I feel is that the Council of States also has a heart for, namely that one should protect the economically weak in this reform, because it is what the economically weak need, that is to get a better performance. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether it is not the intention of the Council of State, when we in the Committee say that those who get better are the minimum pensioners with debts, those with low and medium disability pensions who also have occupational pensions, and that's disabled with child allowances. There's an important basic attitude in all of this. It's also that we're saying here that it's going to make it easier to work with its work, but we must never forget that most unskilled people don't have the opportunity to work, and therefore are not in the situation that we're in, that we have the income of our own work. It is an important but demanding reform, and there are vulnerable groups we are talking about. We in the Central Party are very pleased with the initiative that the Workers' Party has shown in the case, both the initiative that got a unanimous committee to participate in the own-initiative debate here in the Chamber, and the hearing that the Centre Party and the SV attended. It is important to inform the matter. What emerged from that hearing was that the reform of the malpractice should not lead to a weakening of the provision of other benefits, whether government or municipal. We in the Center Party are pleased that the government has now extended the transitional arrangement to all those who lose over NOK 4000, while the limit before was NOK 6000. That was a wise change. We are also very pleased with what is being said, that it should come as a matter of its own to the Stortinget from the Ministry of Local Affairs that one should not lose weight on housing support, that one should get a case of free legal aid from the Ministry of Justice, and that one should have a review of the car welfare system, i.e. of different parts of this with free car from popular interest. It's important that you have a review. And it's central here for us in the Central Party to know whether the stance of the Council of State on all these reviews is based on the basic distribution policy that the many who here have a very low performance compared to our high cost level, rather get an improvement than a weakening of what is then the result. That is why the Central Party is very much in agreement with the proposals. 2 and 3 from SV. We have chosen not to support those proposals in the vote, nor will we support them in the vote, but the intention of those proposals is that the government should come back, based on the premises I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1751	I'll be brief. I see no need to repeat the debate we had in April, which was a good debate, where it was made clear what the various parties and representatives mean. And it was made clear that there is still a broad majority that supports the important disability reform, which should ensure that it pays more to work, and that people should be able to combine social security and work. That's an intention that's still important, and that we're putting ourselves behind. We are all probably a few – which is also reflected in the comments here – that it has been partly too bad information, and that some things in the implementation may not have been optimal at the beginning of the year. I think we could be a couple of people about that. At the same time, we also need to be aware that we do not want the full picture of the impact of the individual on the krona until after the tax settlement for 2015. So we're also going to have to have some patience until we have the facts. Then the bulk of the population—first through the state budget, and now probably also through the revised national budget—has come with transitional arrangements that ensure that those who lost the most lose less. It has supported the Left and thought that it was a sensible policy. It is also true, as we have pointed out, that it has our proposals on the table which, in our view, would not improve the situation for some people, for example. what was discussed around children’s plugins, but there is also one that is clear to end up in a course that is good and that is resilient. So I would say, as I said in the own-initiative debate, and as I said in the debate we had on social security recently, that I think it is important when the Storting first took decisions, not least on important reforms with cross-political support, that one does not in retrospect deny responsibility for what one has been involved, and does not underestimate what one has actually gone through, and the thoughts behind it. As has been quoted from both the now and the April own-initiative debate, there has never been any intention that absolutely no one should lose sight of the reform. That would in case be a very expensive reform. And then one is going to be real enough to stand in it. At the same time, of course, it is quite right to say that we believe that some of the rashes have been too unimaginable, and then we compensate for that through, for example, a longer transition period. That's what the government has proposed, and I think I'm wise. But we also have to agree on what we are some about here in Stortinget. The setting, as well as what is being said, shows that the government is following and coming back to the Storing with reviews within important areas, important statements, where we may need to make some fine adjustments. It applies, for example, where a starting point is gross income and not net income. I also think that we are some of the wise people, but that work is going to be allowed to be done by the government, and then we argued that they would come back to Stortingen when there is a basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1769	I would like to start by raising the SV's proposal and also to pay tribute to the case's rapporteur. Disability is a class question. Therefore, SV has always fought for a safe and sustainable social security that is not to be assessed or created unnecessary stress before health changes, as appropriate. We do not choose our health for ourselves, and there are careful assessments that lie behind each application and each decision about disability. No one chooses to be lazy. And it will always – in any case – pay to work, both socially and economically. A safe and stable income allows you to be self-contained even in cases where health fails. Economic security is an important and necessary task for a community to solve. It's about preventing poverty among those who don't have health to work. It is also not only a question of dignity and being able to stand on one's own feet, but also a question of health and quality of life for those concerned. We believe that sick people should use the cancers to stay on their legs and not all the forces to make the ends meet. Therefore, a safe disability is absolutely essential. We know disability is going to go wrong. We know that it affects women more than men, that it affects people with shorter education to a greater extent than people with longer education, and that people with tough and body-intensive professions are more exposed to disability than academics. When people experience the loss of misdemeanor reform, it also falls into disrepute. The majority agreed that people would have almost the same misappropriation after tax as before after the introduction of the misreform. That's our starting point. The review tone in Prop. 130 L for 2010-2011 and the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in the case are precisely the basis of that perspective, that people should not lose in relation to what they initially have to walk with. I Prop. 130 L, page 133, it says: ‘The solution must ensure that the rights of the individual are properly and properly respected. Unearned pensioners must be given sufficient time to adapt to new rules. Persons who are already receiving a disability pension should also not be subject to excessive changes in their benefits when the plan is restated.» And later in the document, it is said with all clarity that it is added that ‘the performance of the disability pensioners is transferred to the new legislation in such a way that the post-tax default benefit is the same as before’. [[...]] Similar wordings can be found in several places. The problem is that the reality of failure after conversion is not at all in line with the reality described in Prop. 130 L, as described by the Committee in its comments. We know that very many lose, and that many lose considerable sums. As previously notified, SV therefore promotes proposals for a permanent compensation scheme for those who lose out on the implementation of the default reform. Failures that lose large sums cannot wait for evaluations to be carried out well in advance, because bills and rents are to be paid this month and next and not after any evaluation and change had to be in place. There's a big difference between making it easier for people to work and making it harder for people who don't have health to work. SV fully supports the first, but cannot accept that sick people should bear the burden of unintended consequences of just a unanimous reform. For this reason, SV proposes that workers who lose more than DKK 1 000 after the unforeseeable reform should be compensated for their losses. Someone wants to ask the question, why $1,000? My answer would be that it's hard to get exactly compensated on the crown. SV also acknowledges that conversion and transfer between systems are complicated, and that it may be difficult to get exactly the same outcome as before. Some will get more, others will get less, but there should be a clearer limit than today. The non-acceptance of the SV is precisely the premise that it is possible to suffer severe losses or that it is an intentional and necessary effect of the reform. The difficult situation in which many of the country's atrocities have ended is something that can be done. It can all contribute by supporting SV's proposals today. Then I will end by saying that I am pleased that the pressure that has been in this matter has also led to a certain movement, both through the fact that several have expressed support for the intentions of the proposal to date during the debate, and through a movement of the transitional regime and also the warning of housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1802	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1805	Let me first say that I perceive that the main principles of the reform of malpractice adopted in 2011 are a broad majority in the Stortinget. I also feel that in the initiative debate we had just after Easter, which was a good initiative debate, there was a broad consensus that the principles adopted in 2011 were to be built on. That means that in this room there is a broad consensus on the new scheme, with slightly different input. I also record that one of the most important principles underlying the new pre-reform was the fact that uneducated income should be taxed in the same way as labour income, just to make it better for those who had a working capacity, to take out the real and actual working capacity of the individual. I think these are good principles. These are principles that I see we agree on and on which we are going to build. So I've noticed SV's commitment. I've noticed the other people's commitment as well. My commitment is that those who need our safety net, those who are too sick to participate in the world of work, we shall provide a worthy income hedge. I want a welfare society that is something more for those who need it the most, not a welfare society that is all for everyone. It won't be sustainable over time. Nor will we be able to target our welfare systems so that it becomes more for those who need it the most. That is why the government has also put forward a transitional arrangement which had not been taken into account before this government promoted it, and which we saw also in the light of the own-initiative debate, needs to be improved. Therefore, we presented improvements to the revised national budget. This means in total — if the transitional regime had not been implemented — that the country’s disability pensioners would have received a tax increase of about 1 billion. kr. The transitional scheme gave Norwegian workers a tax relief of up to 1 billion. kr. It's also a good social distribution, which made those with the minimum income come out better, and those who needed child supplements, who are going to support children, came out better. There are good principles that I believe should be used, and on the basis of which this government has been founded. Then I would like to say that I am a little curious about SV's rhetoric and argumentation, precisely because in the tax proposition it became clear that some would lose. I fully agree with what Mr Lundtigen has confirmed in two debates that creating a new reform means that there will also be changes, otherwise there will be no reform. However, the fact that the SV was later not familiar with the consequences of what you put the policy on and took part in the government, I find it strange. I would like to ask the question: is this how to understand that the SV when you were in government, did not read their own propositions and were not familiar with the content of the propositions they invited the Stortinget to make decisions on the basis of? You can almost get the feeling that that was the case when you hear the debate afterwards. I want to spend the last minute on permanent compensation. I think it is unreasonable and very unfortunate to have a lasting compensation. When a person has disability benefits and a person has employee income at the same level, why should the person with income be taxed much harder than the person with disability benefits? Why should the person under the disability benefit scheme after 2015 have a more stringent tax regime than that introduced in December 2014, based on the same income and the same basis of calculation, but then on a new and old model? There's also something you should think carefully through. It has been carefully thought through by this government, and I have also noticed the proposal in the vote on the revision. If the Storting adopts it, the government will of course follow it up in a good way. I am prepared to follow up the decisions of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1828	As I said in my post, we are going to take this debate in the context of the revision, so I really didn't intend to take a line at the Council of State. I want to brag a little bit of my own post -- you can listen to self-esteem, because it comes from the heart. I think I was very upset with the government at some of the points that the government is now following up. After all, the Storting has put a little pressure on the government to make it follow up. Then I think that right should be right. When the Council of State says that the previous government did not at all take account of the transitional arrangements that we have now adopted and that we are going to expand on Friday, it is that we now have two major reforms – the pension reform and the under-reform – and it was a prerequisite that one should follow up with new issues to the Stortinget all the way when it came to both the pension reform and the under-reform. Then I wonder how the Council of State so bombastic can say that if it had still been a red-green government, there would have been no transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1835	It is good that the representative Christoffersen is satisfied with his own post, it would have been unfortunate if she had not been. I'll take it for information. What I said was that when the reform was adopted, there were no assumptions about a transitional arrangement. It was known in the 2012–2013 tax proposition that many could get out worse, and that some could get out better, but it was not at the time taken into account for a transitional arrangement. I was in opposition and had comments in the attitude to the issues that we should come back with a transitional arrangement. I stood alone about those remarks. Ergo didn't take the majority that time. It was this government that made it come out, it's a fact. I think it is good that we have reached an agreement in the Stortinget on the transition system, and I think it is good that we have a total amount of money that is devoted to ensuring the living conditions of those who are too sick to be able to participate in the working life, but at the same time we are committed to the principles that we agreed on when we adopted the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1842	I can assure the Council of State that SV has read its own propositions, but it is with today's government in the post that the reform of malpractice comes into effect. Then it's the responsibility of today's government to make sure that it happens in a social or non-social way. We want a welfare state that gives dignity, not too much needy, as expressed by the Council of State. I am absolutely convinced that if the misreform came into force at our post, there would be clear transitional rules, arrangements or compensation. Then you would have a discussion about how far they would go. My question is: Since the transitional arrangements have been substantially improved, does the Council of State see that SV is entitled to the fact that the original was inadequate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1849	Firstly, it is good to confirm that SV had read the file as the previous government presented – its own file. I also expect both rhetoric and message to be in line with the fact that this was well-known, and that it would not be possible to use the term ‘unintentional consequences’ about a relationship that you knew about. It would be very strange to use the term ‘unintentional consequences’ to describe something you knew. Yes, it was introduced under this government, and this government has taken responsibility. That is why we have put in place a transitional arrangement, which is why we have improved the transitional system, and that is why we have adapted the housing aid system, so we are also prepared to take new measures. I think it's a little strange when the representative Bergstø says what she says, because it's going to be the same as blaming this government and saying it was in our post. It would be like filling petrol with a diesel engine, lending the car to the neighbor and saying that he was the reason the car crashed. It's going to be pretty wrong. He was the one who filled the thought, who was responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1858	I think it is reassuring that the Council of State uses metaphors that refer to borrowed time. I have in my post shown to Prop. 130 L and the clear signals lying there. We have had a debate in the past, to which I have referred, during the discussion of the reform of the poor, and I have made several quotations that they should come out similarly. There is something to be said that the majority in this Chamber meant that it was written, that it was debated, and that it was established. Obviously, when you tax, you also have to have transitional arrangements or a compensation that makes people with little lose a lot. I therefore repeat my question from instead: When the Council of State clearly sees that what was presented, was not sufficient, does the Swedish Council of State see the points?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1865	During treatment with Prop. 130 L in 2011, referred to several times by Bergstø, wrote in the notes that there was a need for a transitional arrangement. SV did not join it. If SV saw that the need was there, SV had a good, golden opportunity to do something about it when the tax proposition for 2012–2013 was presented. Then the problem was thoroughly documented, but I saw that SV did not do anything at the time. It was this government that put forward a transitional arrangement, which followed up the consequences of which were seen in 2011. I am pleased because this has prevented the Norwegian disabled from getting a 1-billion-dollar tax increase. kr overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1870	I have previously praised the fact that the government has actually taken action and made a transitional arrangement, even though SV criticises it for being too short-lived and not good enough because it is not accurate enough. I wonder if the Council of State sees the need to tighten it up further, so that fewer of the country's misdemeanors are less able to live for and more people are included under the transitional arrangements made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1875	I agree that in the frail reform, one of the most important steps was to tax disability in the same way as labour income. It's one of the principles that stands firm, and I feel there's a broad consensus in this room. That's what I'm dealing with. So, in order to avoid a huge increase in taxes overnight, we thought it would make sense with a transitional arrangement. This transitional arrangement has come, this transitional arrangement we thought was necessary, also in good time before we entered the government, and we followed it up in government. Then we've improved the arrangement. We did that under review. I have also noticed that one wants to look at further improvements and follow developments further to prevent those with the lowest income and with the greatest responsibility for caring from coming out worse. We're also following that up in this government. But there are also other components that are important and that need to be seen in the context, for example. lower nursery prices, a good housing support scheme and more targeted funds for young people growing up in low-income families. A lasting system I don't think is the way to go, because at least it does so that you get a discrimination... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1898	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1907	The proposers for Document 8:104 S for 2014-2015 address an important and serious matter. It is a major and growing problem in society that more and more people experience being offered employment contracts that do not involve agreed working hours, fixed pay or proper dismissal protection. But it's still called a permanent employee. We first saw it with maybe a little bit small and less serious actors, both foreign and Norwegian, in the personnel industry. Then we've seen that it also hits the big ones and the ones we thought were serious actors in the same industry. It has gone so far that the NHO Service has actually published on its website a recipe on how to enter into that kind of unprofessional work contract. It is a major problem in itself for the manning industry, but it is also a major problem because this poses a significant risk of infection. Internationally, we've seen it all in the air, in the aviation industry, where we're still seeing that it's becoming more common for people to get paid per assignment, that is, no fixed and decent employment. We see that it is pressing into the construction industry – perhaps not so unnatural, because it is those who have experienced it on the crew side from the beginning of – and we also see trends towards the same in the commercial and service industries. These developments undermine serious actors, making it more difficult to be a serious employer and a businessman in Norway. It also threatens health, the environment and safety because it becomes more difficult to tell when something is wrong when you don't have a fixed employment. It undermines productivity, which we not least get information about from the construction industry, because being able to invest in own employees also brings productivity gains, and it undermines the safety of employees. There is simply a lack of respect for honest work, not least for the work of others. I am therefore pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the comments on this treatment. That's how we're referring to Prop together. 74 L for 2011–2012, where the Stortinget said: ‘Without adequate guarantees and predictability in terms of access to employment, permanent employment in the temporary agency will in reality mean no more than temporary employment.’ It is repeated and established by an overall committee. I'm very happy about that. That is why I think it is in some contrast to what the Council of State has commented on in relation to these issues, at least in the public debate, because what he has pointed out is that it is up to the courts to decide whether that practice is contrary to current legislation. But it's not like someone has asked the Council of State to comment on a single matter – it's right that the courts decide. What's the point here, is to stand behind what's the Storting's view of the laws that the Storting itself has made, that is, to have a political view of a political decision. We believe that the Council of State should do that. We also believe that the consensus in the vote clearly informs the Council of State to follow up on the understanding that Stortinget has of today's legal state. The majority of the Committee also asks the Council of State to follow up closely with the social partners. The hearing was very clear and clear. In the hearing with employees and those present by employers’ representatives, it was clear that there was no change in the law needed in today’s situation, but a determination of the perception of existing law by the Stortinge. That is why we expect from the Workers' Party that the Council of State will follow up, with the understanding that the Stortinget has previously given – and now gives – expression. We also promote, together with the Centre Party and SV, a proposal that he clarify the legislation if necessary – in order to underline it. I have therefore also mentioned the proposal made by the Workers' Party in the setting, together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1929	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1932	The Working Environment Act adopted by the Stortinget before Easter, which is launched on 1 July of this year, clearly underlines that permanent employment is and will be the main rule in Norwegian working life. A manning company is an enterprise engaged in hiring out labour and recruitment. As a general rule, hire from the manning industry is only permitted if temporary needs exist. As the government and the Storting changed the rules on access to temporary employment on a general basis, this did not include the manning industry, but there are some exceptions to this in the Working Environment Act. About 1.2 pst. of the number of annual works carried out in Norway comes via the manpower industry. This represents 25 000 annual works, divided into around 80000 people. On average, they are employed in a staffing agency for four months. Norway has also introduced an EU directive on the manning industry which gives clear rights to workers and an acceptance of the manning industry as a natural part of the labour market. Personnel hired by a manning company must have rights similar to those that would be enjoyed if they were permanently employed by the tening company. The government is assessing whether the changes made in Sweden, Denmark and Finland will also apply to Norway. The need for temporary workers will always arise from illness, studies, leave, holiday settlement and reduced working time. As a result, the manning industry is an important player in the Norwegian business community and in order to ensure greater flexibility in the labour market. For many, the manning industry is a first meeting with the labour market and ensures valuable work experience that is requested from many employers. Many people with holes in their CVs, graduates and immigrants, therefore, come out more quickly in their working life through the manning industry than through the Nav course. This seems to the government to be very positive. The Working Environment Act sets up, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen was in, two forms of employment, permanent and temporary, but permanent employment is and becomes a clear rule. All employment in Norway takes place within the framework of these forms. However, the Working Environment Act does not contain a separate definition of permanent employment. According to case-law, the real aspects of employment that are essential for the legal assessment are not what the employment relationship is referred to as in the contract. It is the individual worker who must follow any breach of today's rules of employment and dismissal, possibly together with his trade union. The Labour Inspectorate also provides information about the legislation and how it should be understood. The committee had a hearing in Stortinget. After the hearing, no one supported the Central Party proposal, and everyone claimed that today's law is good enough. It is important to follow closely the development and practice of hiring and hiring out labour, particularly in comparison with the use of other forms of employment. All those working in Norway should be treated properly, and they should have a decent salary. This applies both to residents of Norway and to those who come to work in Norway. The government has strengthened the fight against labour crime together with the social partners. It is important to cooperate with the serious companies, and in this industry is 80 pst. of the volume organised by the NHO Service. It is therefore their responsibility to work for good jobs with collective agreements. I am pleased that in this context, the Ministry has concluded a research agreement with Fafo to provide increased knowledge of different forms of labour relations and the possible impact of new legislation. In particular, fixed employment, temporary employment, renting, commissions/entrepreis and the interaction between just these forms to be followed over time. In addition, under the direction of the government’s strategy against the crime of working life, the general trends that characterise the manpower industry shall be explained. The equal treatment rules of the Labour Environment Act shall be examined, in particular with regard to compliance and enforcement. There is a need for flexible solutions in a modern labour market, and hiring from the manpower industry is an alternative to temporary employment for many enterprises and an entrance to the labour market for a very large number of employees. The right is concerned that all working conditions must be based on orderly conditions under which the labour-environment legislation on fixed-term employment is the general rule. The adequacy of current legislation is widely recognised by the social partners. I have noticed that there are different views in the labour market, and the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, have therefore asked the Council of State to contribute to a common understanding of how the legislation should be interpreted and that the Council of State, together with the social partners, assess these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1964	The prohibition of certain types of employment contracts in Norwegian registered enterprises is the same as preventing employers and employment. The economy needs, and the country needs, employers and businesses to be able to obtain the labour they need. Changing the legislation, as the opposition today suggests, will not help to prevent the challenges in the labour market. In fact, I would argue that such a proposal could never have come from the same parties when they were in position. In fact, there was no such suggestion from them either. The ability of an employer to employ on its own principles may mean survival for just one Norwegian registered enterprise. What is known is that some unprofessional enterprises offer labour at much lower costs. In most cases, foreign registered enterprises may also be part of a larger criminal environment or network. This is something the government is working on in the direction of the government's strategy against the crime of working life. For the Advancement Party and for the Government, it is important to have neat conditions in the manning industry. The Working Environment Act applies in the same way as in the rest of the world of work. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party say that they are concerned that flexible solutions are needed in the modern labour market. But what they're obviously not concerned about is that the business community should have that flexibility to be able to hire contracts. If business loses this opportunity, the survival of individual enterprises could be lost. There must be a dialogue between the parties, i.e. the manning industry and the business community must jointly ensure that each employee is contracted in accordance with the law. For individuals, such contracts are better than having to go unemployed. Think: A founder is in the start-up phase, with the need for labour both then and water. One of the possibilities the founder has for developing his ideas is to be able to take advantage of, for example, the manning industry and to set up an employment contract with the employee according to his own needs. This could lead to value creation and innovation for Norwegian business. It will also be useful for workers who would otherwise have left without a job. With this employment contract, the founder, in a Norway that needs more jobs, has the opportunity to contribute to a lower unemployment rate. Therefore, it is so important to have contracts with flexible solutions, such as: fixed-term unpaid employment between assignments. That is why we believe that there is no reason to make any legislative changes as proposed by the rapporteurs, and we in the Progress Party do not want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1977	There is a radical change in Norwegian working life. The radical change undermines the standard of working life, and more and more people are being affected. I'm very proud that the Center Party takes this seriously, and we're going to be a spearhead in the fight ahead to stop this development. Therefore, we have made proposals to ban certain types of employment contracts in Norwegian registered companies. It has to be combined with the fact that we define the content of the different working conditions. For example, what we're talking about here is employment agreements where it's called "fixed employee without pay between jobs". It is neither permanent nor temporary employment, but convocational contracts. The people who get such a contract become, in practice, callers. It is agreed that we should have a general rule for permanent employment in Norwegian working life. However, there is no definition of permanent employment and permanent employment in the Working Environment Act, and the manning industry uses employment contracts, for example, on the advice of the NHO Service, where it is called ‘fixed employee without pay between jobs’. Interestingly, when the Swedish Labour and Social Committee heard about this, one organisation — and the most important one — did not meet. It was the NHO Service. The NHO Service did not meet to tell you what their agenda is. Those who met, on the other hand, were the NHO Association of Construction Industry National Association, which met up and agreed entirely with the intent of the Centre Party in the proposal. Very strong. State Council Eriksson has stated that he will not decide whether these contracts are fixed or not. In the government's opinion, it must find its clarification in court. At the same time, multi-annual research projects are to be launched in order to find out, while there is a raging trend. I notice that the Council of State has today gone out in connection with the reports of the E24 and said that we must now really go to war against the road mafia. Strong words. The councils are going to go to war against a road mob, which is just operating within the system we're now talking about. The background to the proposals of the Central Party is political clarification. The centre party believes that these forms of employment from the NHO Service are illegal temporary employment. Such employment contracts, together with the offer of free labour immigration, will destroy Norwegian working life in more and more areas. I have today had a meeting with the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs in Buskerud, and they say that this must be stopped, because it destroys the conditions of competition, it destroys the possibilities of vocational training, it destroys the possibilities of apprentice contracts. Therefore, it is important, in the view of the Centre Party, to clarify what is understood by permanent employees in the Working Environment Act, and it must be the real conditions that are crucial for what we call the different forms of employment. Permanent employment shall be a continuous obligation for the employee to offer his/her labour and to carry out his/her duties. Employment shall provide security of income for employees and full employment protection under the law. For temporary employment there shall be equivalent requirements, but temporary employment shall be of fixed, limited duration. Then we have the callers, which are actually what the crew companies are doing, and it is in the Fafo report 2015:10, Calling vicars in Norwegian working life, clarified in a very good way. We want to get this debate more knowledge-based, get a clarification of what lies in obligations and rights for permanent employees, temporary staff and conscripts. In this context, we are promoting our three proposals, and that is essential for us to move forward. This is just the first step in stopping the development of an increasingly unprofessional working life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1994	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e1997	In the past, there has been a tendency in the debate that there has been a general debate on the possibility of a temporary extension. I do not feel that this is what this matter is about. From the left side, we believe that there is an open need to be able to apply temporarily, and we believe that the changes that were made in the labour-environment law in ours, which comes into force on 1 July, will be important for many businesses, important for many outside the labour market, and important for the Norwegian economy. So that possibility should be there. What I understand is that we're talking about here, in fact, there's a very special case where at least many people think that working life bypasses the legislation for what is fixed and temporary addition. That is an important debate in itself. We have no legal definition in the work environment law of what it is to be fixed. We have had a hearing – and it was an interesting hearing. First of all, she was interesting because there was agreement among the participating parties that this is an important issue, that the representative Lundtigen and others in his proposal are fully open to the right track, and that here we have a challenge in Norwegian working life. At the same time, everyone who took part in the hearing advised against voting for the proposals that are being made here, and said that it was not the way to go. I asked under the earring questions about what one mine is the way to go. I must admit that it was difficult to get a very good answer. The reason for this might be that Storting is not a law interpreter. The stork is not a court. The size of the store adopts laws, and regulations can be drawn up on the basis of the laws we give. A certain guide can be found in the Storting Preprocessed. What might have to be done after work, which is what we are talking about here, has a very limited weight – according to Norwegian legal method. So the question is, is there a need for an adjustment to the legal text? Is there a need for regulatory adjustment? Or is that what we need, a court order? I think the last thing would be ideal, one must be able to say. And if that's how it was given the impression in the earring, that this is very simple and straightforward in legal terms, it will also be easy and straightforward to get such clarification. At the same time, we have tripartite cooperation in Norway. One thing is law and law, something else is the culture of addition in our working life. In this way, we believe from the left side that it is right that the majority today give notice in an annotated form that the Council of State should engage in dialogue with the social partners and approach these questions. I think that's wise. We may need more knowledge and it may be possible to do something like that. It would be good, but to drive and interpret intentions in laws later on is not something the Stortinget has for habit, nor is there anything a court would pay particular attention to. If you think you're going to change the legal text, go in and provide a legal definition, for example, of what the fixed addition is, yes, then you're going to have to discuss it enough. But it's a bigger discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2010	SV fights for a strong and predictable law providing workers with protection, protection and participation. We promote the Norwegian model as our basic political vision and therefore want strong trade unions, work for everyone, a strong degree of organisation, clear tariff agreements and not least good tripartite cooperation. That is why we are also clear that developments in Norway and Norwegian working life should be defined in Norway and not dictated by the EU. The serious situation underpinning the proposals that we are discussing today, which are now being discussed, must be taken seriously, because the unscrupulous attitudes of the labour force and the unscrupulous attitudes that have pushed forward a development that is not served by the workers, are threatening precisely the starting point of the Norwegian model. Contracts which neither define employment, pay nor hours of work, offer little or no security to individual workers and must be combated. It has been referred to earlier in the debate. Heavy players, such as the Joint Union and the Trade Union, made it clear that today's legislation is not the problem, but today's practice. We are listening to this in SV, and we believe, together with the Workers' Party, that the matter needs to be closely monitored in cooperation with the social partners. We do not support the starting point of the Advance Party, which was presented in a previous post, that employers should be able to hire people freely on the basis of their own principles, and that flexibility in working life should be reserved to employers. On the other hand, we support the intention of the proposals we are now discussing, which are on the table in front of us, but believe that it must be taken together with the parties in order to change today's practice. Then I'm excited to hear the Council of State's analysis of the situation and his assessments of how to address the serious backcloth that is the basis of today's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2023	First, I would like to congratulate the proposers for raising an important debate. There may be different approaches to the debate, but at least there is a common understanding of the problem. Let it be clear: the government and I want tidy conditions in Norwegian working life. We also want tidy conditions in the Norwegian crew industry. I remember that today is at the base of 2 pst. a relatively small proportion of the workforce coming from the manning industry. This does not mean accepting unfair or work-life crime from the industry — not from any industry. I must also be allowed to say that I very much agree with what was presented by the representative Rotevatn, and his analysis of the situation. We also notice the hearing in Stortinget. I also remember the same understanding of pre-work and post-work to the law, i.e. the purpose of the Working Environment Act, which does not define what is permanent employment, but which operates with two types of employment: temporary employment and permanent employment. The purpose of the law came out clearly when the Storting treated it in its time, and was part of the pre-worked. In this case, if post-work is to be interpreted as post-work, new laws should be introduced, precisely because the post-work will have a weaker legal weight than the pre-worked one, as the representative Rotevatn was. I have, as I said, noticed it as the majority among others. points out – that social partners should sit down, discuss these issues and identify the scope and issues. I am very happy about it – and will contribute to our doing so – and that we agree that this discussion should take place. That discussion has already started. I have already met with both the Joint Alliance and the NHO Service. I've also challenged them to give concrete examples of what the situation is, so that we can get the actual picture and the extent of it. I also want to sit down with the parties and follow up that discussion further. I agree with Mr Lundtigen that it makes sense to have a knowledge-based approach. That is why I am also very pleased that the Department and I have started a greater effort to explore the forms of association, not only in the manning industry, but also in the case of rental companies, to look at what the picture is like in the future: how has this development been, and what challenges do we face? I think it is good and important to have a good debate and discussion and a common understanding of how to deal with this, with the social partners. I'll make that right. I'm going to follow that discussion up with joy. Like I said, we're on it. Finally, I would like to say to the representative Lundteigen: Yes, I am concerned about the mafia state that is in parts of our working life. Here we talk about foreign companies coming to Norway, getting pay and working conditions according to Norwegian rules, acting under Norwegian law, apparently coming back to their home country, then having to take out money in cash and pay back to the mafia. In Norway, compliance with all the rules is difficult to detect. That is why I believe that this is something we should have pressed internationally – including in the EU – to look at how to prevent unworthy exploitation. Those countries also need to clean up their own refrigerators and clean up internally. If not, we should perhaps discuss with the other EU countries that we do not want such unprofessional relationships, so we are shutting them off from participating in the open market. But let it also be obvious: I want an open market. This is not something that has started in the road sector in the last few days. There was also a situation that existed already in 2012 and 2013, which was also discussed in the government at that time, without any action being taken against it. This government is taking action. I come up with a plan for the crime of working life, with several suggestions on how to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2041	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2044	Let me first make it clear that the representative Jensen said there was a proposal from the minority on the amendment to the legislation: it is only the proposal of the centre party. It's not that the other parties are behind an amendment, and it's based on the hearings that we've conducted. I hope the Council of State does not share the same view of the freedom of the employer as the representative Jensen, namely that you can be hired without rules at all. At least it is not in line with what the State Council itself has presented – even with the changes in the labour-environment law that he presented. I think it's a rather special form of understanding the relationship between the constituent powers that politicians should not have an opinion of political decisions. We do not ask for a post-work, but we want to clarify what was the intention of and processed into today's legal state. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State: can a job without a fixed job size, without a job obligation and the right to pay and protection against dismissal be called a permanent job?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2051	Firstly, the job protection, the protection against dismissal, including the manning industry. It is exactly the same rules of the Working Environment Act that apply to them today. I believe – and I think that the representative Andersen is aware of this – that when Stortinget and the constitutional system make a preliminary work into a law, it is based on a purpose. Then the Storting cannot say in retrospect that what came out for the first time, what was meant then, is no longer the intention. In that case, the Stortinget, as a legislative assembly, must change the law. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, says that he sees no need for that, he has no desire to do that. It's the courts that are the judiciary, and I think we should deal with that. Then it's the legislative power that has to change laws and clarify laws, if you think there's a need for it. I think the most important thing is that we get a safe, flexible and good framework in Norwegian labour law. The best way to find out is through good tripartite cooperation – to sit down with the parties and discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2062	I must be allowed to say that it is a strange notion of having a political view of political decisions. It is not that the Stortinget – neither the minority nor the majority – says that one should change what has been perceived to be the legal situation in Norway: when one is permanently employed, one should have a permanent position. A person shall have a security of wages and salaries and shall be subject to compulsory employment and to agreed working hours. Let me put it straight out: there's a slightly special form of the home layer constitutional consideration that a government council should not be able to have an opinion on what is the actual legal state in terms of decisions taken by the Stortinget. So I am not asking the Council of State to assess this on the basis of individual cases, I am asking the Council of State for the opinion of the law in force, in line with the Storting decision. It should be clear and say that fixed employment without guaranteed pay between assignments is not in line with the rules of permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2071	You can always have political opinions about what is in a law, but it will still be so that it is the courts that judge the law, not the politicians. If politicians think anything about it, it has to be tried in court. But I record that none of the parties have tried to bring this into court, that there has been a legal case about it, I confess. Then we had a court order. At least I'm not familiar with any court order. I believe that if one sees the need for legislative changes, the legislative assembly must promote these legislative amendments, which means a new process for a new law, which will be more burdensome in the legal system and more guiding than a post-work and an interpretation. We can have interpretations, both the representative Dag Terje Andersen and I, but neither of us is a court. It's the courts that are the courts. I think we have to deal with that – whether or not Dag Terje Andersen likes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2080	Now a very special situation has arisen. Seemingly, all in this room agree that permanent employment should be the general rule of Norwegian working life. Then we have a government council that can't define what is meant by permanent employment. I would therefore like to ask again: according to my definition, fixed employment is an obliging job size, with a clear obligation to work and the right to pay, and that you have a job protection equivalent to that of all permanent jobs. Does the Council agree or disagree with this definition?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2085	I agree that the law in force is that when you have permanent employment – and this has the Supreme Court, in another case, not specifically related to this, established – you have the same job protection, the same protection against dismissal, as the Labour Environment Act is based on. For the purpose of determining wages and salaries, it is up to the parties to decide. The wage fixing is not going to be so much for me. I still believe that is something that politicians should not interfere with, but leave to the parties in full, and I will deal with that. That's actually the short and straightforward answer to that: fixed employment is the general rule. The permanent member of staff is protected by the provisions of protection and by the same job protection/disclosure protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2094	It has been claimed by previous speakers here today that the proposals of the Central Party will prevent people from getting into work. On the contrary, I would argue that they will prevent people from being real jobseekers and shut them out of the ordinary labour market. So here they have to have a job where they are to be available to the employer without having a fixed salary and regular working hours, and at the same time they cannot take on work for others because they are bound by it. Is that what the Council of State shares with me? Another challenge in this respect is precisely the same as temporary workers in entering the housing market. Last week, an increased demand for equity and ability to pay was made for the provision of housing loans. Would not this type of employment also mean that he/she is completely out of date to enter the housing market, because there is no fixed salary in the employment contract and thus he/she is not eligible for a mortgage?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2101	As far as the last point is concerned, it is not under my constitutional responsibility, nor am I going back to my previous profession and assessing loans. I think the banks should be allowed to do that, according to the laws and regulations that apply, and then they will decide which customers will receive a loan from them, under which conditions, under the laws and regulations. To the main question, if I share the opinion of the Center Party around it, the answer is no, I don't share the opinion of the Center Party. What I'm concerned about is that we're going to have safe, good, serious conditions in Norwegian working life, we're going to have flexible, good arrangements. I record that in many industries there are both chord wages and production wages. I think it may be good in many respects that the parties themselves are allowed to determine the formation of wages – that the individual employee and the employer agree. I think that is a good principle. Then we're going to have good rules related to protective provisions, and that's what this government adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2108	I have three questions for the Council of State, based on what he himself said in a previous post. Governments want cases in court. Doesn't the Council of State realize that people don't dare take these matters to court, and don't the Council of State understand why they don't dare it? The government itself mentioned mafia-like conditions, which were also prevailing in 2012–2014, without the previous government doing anything about it. Does the Council of State think this was new in 2012–2013? The last question: Has not the Council of State understood that the 2006 Action Plan 1 of the previous government against social dumping, Action Plan 2 and Action Plan 3 and Action Plan 4 of this period against social dumping are about combating this type of mafia-like situation? We were, after all, in the Labour and Social Committee when we started to propose action plans against social dumping, which the Progress Party, as it is now, opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2119	No, I do not understand that the LO, like the large employee organisation, would not dry up this matter before the court. That's the answer to point 1. Point 2: No, and as I said in my post – this is nothing new, this has been a relationship that has also existed before. This government is trying to produce even more instruments to combat this crime of working life, when we talk about the roadmafia. I think we unisonly agree on that in Stortinget – unisonously agreeing that we should fight. Paragraph 3: Yes, I agree that the three action plans presented by the previous government were a wish, a clear intention, a goal to combat undesirable conditions in Norwegian working life. Then I also register, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen said from the pulpit, that this has become only worse and worse. It has evolved in a more serious direction. That's what the representative Lundteg says. Then one might ask the question: How accurate and how good were the three action plans? It must therefore be strengthened by new instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2129	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2134	It has been said here from many that there is a great deal of consensus about permanent employment. The debate has shown that this is a fundamental error. That's fundamental disagreement, because you don't even agree on what you mean by permanent employment. The Council of State says that one should have safe, good and serious conditions in the workplace. Yes, we all agree on that. But it has to find its anchor in the law. The council says he's worried. The Council of State says that he will work according to international conditions. Yes, it is good that the Council of State works internationally and looks to Sweden, Finland and others. But it is still the case that the Norwegian Storing is responsible for Norwegian law. I have not experienced anyone saying that it is contrary to the EEA Agreement to determine what permanent employment is in the Working Environment Act. The Labour Dispute Act has clear definitions, but the Labour Environment Act, to which this matter applies, does not have definitions of fixed-term employment. The NHO corresponds to the Committee’s argument that the Working Environment Act does not clarify the definition of permanent employment. Just – that’s what provides the basis for the unsustainable situation that develops. The NHO Service is doing everything they can to avoid getting into the legal system, and is entering into a settlement with the individual, in order to avoid getting the principal clarification. The councils know that. I'm also aware that the department during the red-green period worked to go into this thoroughly. But it's not done anything further. The centre party has no problem saying that the action plans that came under the red-green government were too weak. I can tell you one more time: they were too weak, they don't take care of the root. We do not have a legal definition of permanent employees and temporary staff as conscripts. That's what it's got to do. As the representative Heidi Greni says, these callers also have no opportunity to take a different position, because they are therefore less relevant to a recruitment agency, which has too many in its stables compared to the jobs they have. The councils know that. The centre party is for close cooperation with the social partners, but we want to take our political responsibility. I conclude by saying that it is very special that the SV and the Workers' Party do not support the proposals of the Center Party. They just want to clarify and bring the matter forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2151	State Council Eriksson said himself that he did not understand that the LO could not go to court in this type of case and get the question clarified. It is clear that the Council of State Eriksson is not aware that there have been a number of cases, but it must of course be based on an employee. In fact, it has been possible until now for the community to go to something called collective action, but that right now removes the Council of State. What happens when individuals bring a case against such an employer has been so far – without exception – that when the case comes up, it leads to a settlement. State councils themselves have used the term ‘mafia states’. It is a typical example of a mafia condition that one buys out of the case when an employer who has offered this type of offer to the employee understands that he is on thin ice. That's typical. Then I must be allowed to say when the Council of State in its reply to Lundtigen indicates that there is a piece of pay and other pay systems, that the representative Lundtegegen has not at all interfered with pay systems. But someone thinks that when you're a permanent employee, you're entitled to a salary. Wages and salaries are to be negotiated, but you are to be entitled to a salary. That's what we're trying to get. So a brief explanation of the last question from Lundtigen, on why we do not vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Central Party. We have put forward our own proposal, which is based on the understanding of what we perceive as today's legal state on what is a fixed position. We are promoting this proposal together with the SV and the Senterpartiet. When we do not support the proposal of the Central Party, it is because there are proposals for legislative changes. We've taken the National Association of Construction seriously, we've taken the LO seriously, we've taken the Trade Union seriously, we've taken the Joint Confederation seriously, and we've taken the EL & IT Association seriously when they say: that's not what we need now, please don't come forward with a legislative amendment. A lower proposal for a change of law would weaken their case with the opportunities they have, either through contact with employers or, where appropriate, with the legal system, to get a right in what they consider to be the legal state of the day. That's the background. We take them seriously. I acknowledge and honour Lundtägen's honest commitment, but I believe that the form of engagement, from which I have become strongly dissuaded, can rather appear as a bear service than serve the matter. That is why we are promoting alternative proposals, to which Mr Lundtigen has also joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2164	I have to say that you might have to remind yourself that this is a matter that is almost unanimous. There are no parties other than the Centre Party that support the proposal of the Centre Party. It does not necessarily work that way when you listen to the debate and the tone of this debate, but that is the reality. One chooses to polarise a debate and polarise it in a way that is not at all reflected in the comments on the matter. It is polarised in a way that was completely alien to the consultation that the Committee had on the matter. To be honest, we had a hearing that actually became more constructive at work than a hearing. The parties agreed. We didn't need the proposal of the Center Party. We didn't. Type of employment is not related to the size of the job. It has to do with job protection. It seems that some of the representatives in the room have forgotten. We are discussing remuneration, and then I also want to say that I believe it is a value that we still have a high degree of contractual freedom in this country – the freedom of agreement between the social partners. As the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, in his statement, chose to take up collective redress, I would just say that it was very reasonable to remove collective redress. There was a system that was basically very problematic, where you could end up in situations where people went to trial on behalf of people who didn't want to be part of the case. It was therefore an almost collective legal environment that did not want collective redress. That's also why the Ministry of Justice, when the Red-Green government sent it out to the hearing, was sceptical about collective redress because of these fundamental issues. This is an interesting debate, but there is no reason why it should be polarised in this way, given the process we have had, and given the hearing we have had, there is no reason why red-green representatives should polarise as they do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2173	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2176	The parties to the Government, with the support of the parties, will remove the collective right of appeal from 1 July of this year. It's a weakening. It may be part of the explanation that the Council of State does not understand why such matters do not come up more often in the judiciary. The representative Heggelund said it was good to have a hearing, but he did not need the proposal of the Senter party. Taste it. It had probably not been a hearing. What is special is that in this debate we have been told that there is no consensus on what is in the ‘fixed position’, and then the legal state of the day is highly uncertain. Then there is a need for clarification. The centre party takes LO and BNL, the National Association of Building Industries, seriously. We have not heard that they do not wish to clarify in the law what is meant by ‘permanent employment’, ‘temporary employment’ and, where appropriate, ‘convocational vicars’. A knowledge-based debate is needed in the future. Only that can stop the development that we are now experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2185	Just too short to sum up: what this matter is about, is not, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen said, whether or not those who have permanent employment should be paid. The question is whether or not they should be paid between the assignments and whether or not those who do not have remuneration between the tasks can be defined as permanent employees. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, also says – and that makes me even more uncertain about what he really thinks – that the Workers' Party does not want to support Lundtigen's proposal. I am pleased that the Labour Party does not support it, because he also says that there are clear feedback from the social partners that we need to build on today's legal understanding. Who has established today's understanding of justice? The stork? Hello, Terje Andersen? Or the courts? He says there have been a number of cases, but they have not been tried well enough in court. What does he really mean by that? Either you have tried the matter and it has become a court order, or you have not. The representative Dag Terje Andersen uses to refer to collective redress. This was also a problem before. Why, then, has collective redress been used only in one case? Nor was it then used in a case that was based on how you could use collective redress. This becomes – as the representative Heggelund had in mind – a little loose rhetoric in the air, unfortunately. But what I think is important is to sit down with the social partners to get an understanding of how we are going to deal with the situation in the future, and how the forms of social relations are developing. I'm glad we've started a major research and investigation work on it, so that we have the knowledge-based basis, so that we can sit down with the social partners and do this. I'm glad that the Workers' Party really believes that's the way you want to go, and not that you have to make legal decisions today, which define. I record that neither Dag Terje Andersen, nor the Workers' Party, is able to define what is to be in «permanent employment». If that were the case, one would at least have wanted to bring that law forward, and get it processed to get clear legal sources, which are necessary to get good judgment on it. We want cleanliness. Then I think the solution is to sit down with the social partners and discuss the issues carefully, and also look at the different forms of association that are in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2204	Let me first say – and everyone who was at the hearings in the committee knows – that there was a clear message from the LO, from the other employee organisations present, and from the National Association of Construction, that it was not desirable to have a legislative proposal. Let me make it quite clear. And I think there's only one perception of those who were present at the hearing. Then it was mentioned polarization, and at least it was not my case-in-law that could provide a basis for polarization. On the contrary, I have chosen to place great emphasis on the part of the setting on which there is a broad consensus, and which refers to the perception the Stortinget has had when one has adopted the Working Environment Act. And yes, councillor, I can define permanent employment: if you have a permanent job, you have to have a fixed job size, and then you have to clear your salary, and then you have to have a job – and that's why we've tried to ask that question several times: when you don't have it, is it a permanent job? So let's define it clearly. But the thing that's a little worrying here is that when a committee is quite clear in that direction, then we have a government council that chooses to polarize, and apparently wants to strengthen the side of Norwegian working life that thus wants to use the form of employment "permanently employed without a guarantee". I think that's a shame. So to collective redress: it is clear that it was an instrument to take just social dumping and this kind of fraud! But it is clear that for the current government, it is not a problem that it is being cheated – but that you have the means to expose it. For what has happened to the many cases that employees have raised, what I said instead, is that when they have started to approach the judicial system, a settlement is made because even that part of the employer’s side – not the serious part of the employer’s side, but the part that drives this practice – knows that if it comes to judgment, they will probably lose. Therefore, they are leading the practice against their employees, who for quite natural reasons are afraid of their job and therefore do not raise a case, but the few who, through their trade union, are asking for support to travel their case, tend to be settled before the case comes up. And in this context, it's a little important that the weak in that party relationship, that is, the workers who are really without rights, have the political authorities on their side. I hope that will be the result in the future, even if the Council of State's comments are not very promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2215	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The representative, Mazyar Keshvari, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2220	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself on a referendum on the reception of Syrian refugees and an increase in aid in the neighbourhoods by one billion. krones. I also ask that the proposal be examined in accordance with Article 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, which states that ‘the representatives shall be reviewed for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2227	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2233	Before the Stortinget goes to voting, the representative, Rasmus Hansson, will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2236	I would like to ask that proposal No. 22 in Case No. 1 shall be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal will then be replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the government develop a plan with concrete objectives for increased food production based on Norwegian resources. The objectives are incorporated in the new agricultural notification.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2244	Then we should be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2252	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 7, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 8-21, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 22-24, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 25, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of itself Proposals Nos. 1–6 is included in the vote, while proposals 7–25 are made available to the representatives. There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal and amended accordingly. The proposal thus reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government develop a plan with concrete objectives for increased food production based on Norwegian resources. The objectives are incorporated in the new agricultural notification.» The President will then propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 25, from Per Olaf Lundtigen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government disagrees with the management of the agricultural holding and sends it back to the government for further negotiations with the agricultural organisations with a view to reaching an agricultural agreement on the basis of the aim of the Storting to increase food security for agricultural food, and to reducing the income gap between agricultural work and other work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2294	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 24, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the level of prices and subsidies from the agricultural holding 2015-2016 with the amendments as follows: Other required changes in the agricultural holding were requested by the government to adapt with an increase of the total framework of 1276 million. NOK 772 million. SEK for grants and 463 million. kr in target price increases. The target price for Norwegian cereals is increased by 25 øre, corresponding to 250 million. kr. [[except rye, food grain]] The target price for cow and goat milk is increased by 0,08 SEK corresponding to 124 million. kr. The target price of potatoes is increased by DKr 0,18, corresponding to DKr 33. kr. The target price of vegetables and fruit is increased by 2,5 pst, corresponding to 55 million. kr. The rate for 1 to 16 dairy cows is increased by SEK 300/animal, corresponding to SEK 39 million. kr. The rate for 1 to 100 sheep is increased by 50 SEK/animal, corresponding to 33 million. kr. Under heading 74.16, the out-seat premium for cows, cattle and horses is increased by DKK 400, equivalent to SEK 102 million. kr. The grazing premium for sheep, lambs and goats is increased by SEK 59, corresponding to SEK 117 million. kr. The grazing premium for cattle is increased by SEK 44 million, corresponding to SEK 27 million. kr. The grazing premium for small ruminants is increased by NOK 6 million, corresponding to SEK 14 million. kr. In heading 74.17, the area premium for roughage is increased by 5 pst. per daa per zone, equivalent to 205 million. kr. Under heading 74.20, the area grant to cereals for maturation is increased by 450 SEK/day, corresponding to 33 million. kr. Land supplements for vegetables, fruit and berries are increased by DKK 1000/day, corresponding to SEK 4.3 million. kr. Area supplements for roughage are increased by 63 SEK/daa, equivalent to 63 mill. kr. In heading 77.14, the total amount of the subsidy for fur animals corresponding to 17.8 million is removed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2309	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 23, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure development in line with the resource base by reintroducing the maximum delimitation of the livestock premium, the area grant and the district grant for fruit, berries and vegetables. The flattening of decreasing rates of aid at increasing operational levels is reversed and the milk production quota ceiling is lowered.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2326	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8–21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Prop. 127 S The agricultural situation in 2015 is being sent back to the government.’ [[2014 2015]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch new negotiations with agricultural organisations and to present a new offer in accordance with the following principles: — Food production is a societal task. – Increased knowledge of climate change and impacts on the future food situation globally and nationally requires the formulation of new agricultural policies based on the principle of food sovereignty, the conservation and use of available food and food production based on own resources. – Agriculture is the use of soil. Norwegian agriculture is land use in Norway. This means that the soil must be cultivated where it lies through the operation of small and large uses. “Agriculture policy must, in total, help to make farmers more productive on Norwegian resources. – The revenue gap of the first annual work shall be narrowed for all productions. – Conversion towards more organic production, so that the target of 15 pst. Organic consumption and agricultural land can be reached by 2020.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The negotiations shall take place at: A: Amendments to the 2014 Agreement on Agriculture with the removal of the ceilings for subsidies to different domestic animals of the bovine species at heading 74.14 shall be reversed. The released funds are added to the premium in the first interval for each species of animal. An amount limit of SEK 280 000 shall be set for livestock, cf. the 2013 agricultural agreement. B: the structure of the area grant of fruit, berries and green changes with the aim of increasing production throughout the country. Consequently, the significant increase in the rate shall take place at the first rate interval. A ceiling is set on the area grant. The maximum regional contribution limit for fruit and berries is set at 50 tonnes. Released funds shall be put at the first interval.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The feed price is increased in addition to the proposal in Prop.127 S without a price reduction.’ [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a step up of the rate of drainage subsidies to be increased in order to improve agronomy, soil welfare and the capacity of soil for CO2 capture.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the stepping-up of the RMP Regional Environment Programme for the conservation of the cultural landscape and cultural memories and for the promotion of measures to reduce watercourse run-off.’ [[(RMP):]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased research, advice and breeding to follow up national leadership on increased food sovereignty, organic production and consumption and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how investment aid can be used more actively to ensure the use of available land and increase self-produced feed.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how soil welfare and agronomy can be strengthened in an eternity perspective and assessed the creation of Earth Welfare Fund using the Forest Fund model.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide concrete measures, follow-up and testing of recruitment measures for women in line with the recommendation in the report ‘Women, democracy and participation, NBS 2015’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide new schemes to stimulate organic farming as a substitute for the conversion premium which disappeared last year. This must include, inter alia, the device on the means of development.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government asks the government to propose a strengthening of its early retirement plan.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government requests the sharing of food supervision to establish its own animal supervision.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a new agreement and the current agreement is extended until the adoption of a new agreement.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2434	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The allocation on top. 1150 is increased by 495 million in the 2016 state budget. krones. The government is asking the government to negotiate with agricultural organisations on the distribution of funds. The direction of the negotiations is to focus the increase on districts, as well as on small and medium-sized applications.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2449	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government through future agricultural settlements to facilitate the same chronological development of farmers' income as other groups, and to step up the sealing of income gap.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2466	Then we go on to the proposals No. Four and five from the Center Party. The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2469	This is going to be wrong. We have given the explanation of vote that we should vote in favour of the No. 2 and 3, not the proposals Nos. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2474	In other words, it is not proposed. Four and five. There is then a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2477	There will also be errors in proposals Nos. Two and three. That's what we were supposed to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2482	I'm afraid it's too late for proposal No. 2, that's already past it. That is when proposals Nos 1 and 2 are voted on. Four and five from the Center Party. No one has notified support for the proposals. No, we're trying to go back to proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. It was also this proposal that the Socialist Left wanted to support. We'll see if we get it done. There's a disputed facility today. I think we have to lubricate ourselves with a little bit of patience. It's better to spend some time now than to burden tomorrow's schedule. ---
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2493	There is then a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. That was not to be supported by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2496	The Socialist Left Party shall support the proposals No. 2, 3, 6 and 7 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2501	Proposal No. I don't think we're going to have anything to do with it. There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish a multi-annual investment package, outside the framework of the agricultural settlement, which prioritises the upgrading of existing buildings and investment in small and medium-sized applications.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2520	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a tax-advanced fund provision scheme based on the pattern of the forest fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2535	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for concrete measures to be taken by the government in the context of the 2016 State Budget for tax reductions for agriculture and the food industry.’ The vote boards showed that 83 votes were cast against and 6 votes in favour of the proposal from the Central Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.13.15]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2547	The President understands that there are several votes unregistered. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2559	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2016 to provide an assessment of the impact of the conversion of quality grants for lambslaughter on agricultural operators and on future payments from the State budget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2577	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to base a chronically equal income development as other groups such as agricultural income targets.» Here too, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2795	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2956	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a permanent compensation scheme that can be implemented to reduce the financial loss suffered by some after the conversion of taxes on the disability benefits of social security and/or occupational pensions. This compensation scheme should ensure that no person receives a post-tax loss of income greater than NOK 1000 per year, with the exception of persons with an income level above 6 G.’;» The voting boards showed that 95 votes were cast against and 5 votes in favour of the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.15.45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2970	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2975	The proposal by the Socialist Left is then 96 to 5 votes not accepted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to review municipal care services, so that persons who have increased gross income due to the under-reform and who have gained increased ownership or lost entitlement to municipal care receive the same services as before.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e2994	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that State welfare goods based on gross income, such as car grants and free legal aid, are adjusted so that persons who have been granted increased gross income due to the under-reform do not lose access to these services as a result of the conversion.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e3011	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to propose other deduction or support schemes to compensate permanently for the financial loss suffered by individuals following the conversion of taxes on the disability benefits of citizens’ and occupational pensions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e3044	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2-4, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act so that the term ‘permanent employee’ is defined in the law so that, for ‘permanent employee’, there must be predictability of the prospect of employment and pay, as well as full employment protection under the law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act in order to define the term ‘temporary employee’.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation so that an enterprise cannot employ persons on contracts containing terms such as ‘permanent unpaid’, ‘permanent unpaid’, ‘permanent unpaid’, ‘permanent non-remunerated’ and equivalent terms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e3080	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to follow up the case in close cooperation with the social partners and, if necessary, to clarify the legislation.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-17.ana.ud2597e3161	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
