ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e47	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives Ola Elvestuen and Bård Vegar Solhell on leave from 7 December to 12 December from the representatives Sylvi Graham and Rasmus Hansson on leave from 7 December to 11 December from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on leave from 7 December to 9 December from the representative Per Rune Henriksen on leave in days 7 to 8 December all to attend the high-level part of the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the 11th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol – COP21 – in Paris; from the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Sverre Myrli and Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 7 December to 9 December from the representative of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on leave on 7 and 8 December all to participate in the Transatlantic Forum with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gösskenen for the period from 8 December to 10 December to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris The applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Greta Johanne Solfall respectively, and from the first alternates of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, there are applications for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the respective representatives Jan Arild Ellingen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder counties: Lene LangemyrFor Akershus County: Thore Vestby, Are Health and Rannveig Kvifte AndresenFor Hordaland County: Eigil KnutsenFor Nordland County: Veronica PedersenFor Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles, Une Aina Bastholm, Guri Melby and Ann Kathrine SkjørshammerFor South-Trøndelag County: Torhild Aabergsbotten
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e183	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e190	The treatment of sales and donations by local authorities has led to heated discussions in the absence of local government for all years. However, I feel confident that today's debate will take appropriate forms, even though the Health and Welfare Committee does not have a single overall comitology comment in addition to referring to the proposed amendments to the part of the issue of alcohol law. It shows that there have been disagreements and differing views on the proposal, but it is nevertheless appropriate to thank the Committee for its constructive work on the issue before the end of the year, so that the amendments requested could enter into force from 1 January and thus become relevant to the appropriations which, after the current legislation, will have to be renewed by 30 June next year. Most of us are concerned with reducing red tape both to simplify the daily lives of individuals, and also to streamline, save money and eliminate unnecessary work. The amendment by the majority in this Chamber will be adopted today, is an alternative system that reduces red tape while at the same time taking account of local self-government, the need to unlock unprofessional actors and the responsibilities of municipalities to pursue sound public health policies. However, the main purpose of this change is not for municipalities to save resources. The aim is that they should be able to use resources in a different and more efficient way, where renewal at the discretion of the municipality is not necessary in order to ensure alcohol policy considerations. Municipalities that allow appropriations to run on without new treatment will, among other things, be able to channel funds into a more thorough follow-up through control and dialogue-based cooperation in order to ensure compliance with the appropriations legislation. The four-year rule is maintained as a general rule, but municipalities are given the opportunity to decide that the current sales and donations will not expire after four years, but will apply without renewal. In order to ensure that local authorities continue to pay attention to their alcohol policy, it is imperative that a review be carried out after the municipal elections in order to take a decision that appropriations should be continued without new treatment. Both in terms of the ability of municipalities to free up large labour resources by making use of legislative changes, and in terms of predictability and security of operation and investment for industry, we are taking a step in the right direction today. The NHO estimates that the renewal process has a cost to the industry of 21 million. 2014-kronor. Although there is uncertainty about these estimates, they provide an indication of the overall use of resources. The municipalities will also save money. The municipal expenditure on the examination of applications for municipal appropriations is estimated to be between NOK 6 000 and NOK 10 000 for an application. However, no cost estimates have been made for the treatment of renewal applications only, which are estimated to be slightly less resource-intensive than new applications. Today it is approx. 4000 sales appropriations and a place between 7 200 and 7 400 donations in this country. Although there are arguments both for and against the fact that appropriations should be approved once and for all at the time of the first application, municipalities have to decide for themselves. I believe that the elected representatives of the local government of the country will find the solution that is most appropriate in each municipality. The proposal also includes a proposal to open wholesale sales to establishments authorised for a single specific occasion. The majority of the Committee endorses this, which is also a simplification of the legislation and will help to give more equality in the treatment of beneficiaries. Finally, whether there may be different perceptions of alcohol policy in the Health and Welfare Committee, we are at least fully in agreement and promote an overall recommendation regarding the part of the proposition that allows the customs and charging seat to seize and destroy illegally imported laser pointers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e216	The Labour Party believes that simpler legislation will provide less unnecessary bureaucracy and release resources for other municipal tasks. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that municipalities will maintain their instruments of action against what is now described, in order to ensure a sound alcohol policy. The amendments also have broad local political support. Of the 62 municipalities that have spoken, only 3 do not support the changes. The legislative changes require municipalities to continue to take active action in order to allow exemptions for the continuation of appropriations without a new application procedure. A continuation will also be limited to a maximum of four years. It is also assumed that municipalities will have to review their own alcohol policies after each municipal election. Here, it might actually be easier for municipalities to raise the challenges that are. With local government experience, you think that when you have a good system, you don't use as much energy to see if it's right, but here you have the new dot system to see if there are any special parts of the actors you should follow up. The Labour Party believes, based on the experience we have from local politics, that we will actually get even more conscious local government in terms of how they should act in terms of their own responsibility for local alcohol policy. We also believe that the proposed changes will contribute to greater equality and predictability for each economic operator, not least to stop unprofessional actors. The Labour Party believes that such simplifications contribute to ensuring the legitimacy of a comprehensive alcohol policy. But we are very aware that the purpose of the alcohol law is to minimise the social and individual damage caused by those who are unable to consume alcohol in the way they want it. The Labour Party is committed to a restrictive alcohol policy, in which case it is primarily price, availability and not least that we maintain wine monopolies and advertising bans that have contributed to Norway being one of the countries in Europe that has managed to keep alcohol consumption and the damage caused by unwanted alcohol consumption down. It is primarily the tax-free scheme that has been the subject of the Workers' Party. We are not going to address this now, but with regard to local opportunities to control and take responsibility for alcohol policy, we have repeatedly called for more information from the municipality in relation to the local drug challenges. Among other things, we have asked that we also receive a public health indicator that provides more information so that municipalities can see the relationship between the alcohol law and the measures they are taking. But with regard to what we are dealing with today, we fully agree and support the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e229	In areas by region, government is now making an important effort to simplify, renew and improve. This is such a case. That's why I'm also going to make a short article, hopefully quite free of time thieves. This is a legislative change that reduces red tape and unnecessary resource use, while maintaining local autonomy. The responsibilities of the municipality and the ability to conduct a sound alcohol policy are well respected. That's also a clear clarification. It is a legislative change that creates simpler and more effective legislation, contributes to less bureaucracy and frees labour to other tasks of municipal administration. At the same time, there is no decoration of the requirements for a gift grant. There are three key factors that solve what is today's challenge: that current legislation means that municipalities spend a lot of resources on clean treatment of sales and donations. I therefore fully agree with the previous speakers, Mr Grung from the Labour Party. We also believe that such a change in the law will make municipalities conscious — perhaps more consciously — of the funding policy, and most importantly: it frees resources for better controls in order to ensure better compliance with the grants. It's anyway in this end of the chain it's most important that you react quickly. There shall be strict rules and infringements shall result in reactions or termination of authorisation. The Minister of Health simplifies, renews and improves at the same time as he provides a more flexible system that takes into account the diversity and different needs of municipalities. That is good policy, and it promotes the possibility of greater local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e240	The Christian People's Party is part of the minority when it comes to changing this law. The World Health Organisation considers alcohol consumption to be the third major cause of disease and death. It costs society an incredible amount of money, but not least it costs families and the one who's struggling the most. There is evidence that price and availability are the two things that affect the consumption of alcohol by the population the most. And a liberalist alcohol policy country has more challenges than a restrictive alcohol policy country. The government has presented very many good and good plans: the public health report, the primary health report, the health and health plan, a youth health strategy, and a drug plan has been presented. Everything has had a goal of hanging together, preventing, getting in early, not just treating. Early effort has been one of the main pillars of all these plans. But in the case of alcohol, which is part of all of these plans, one can't read right, and one will change a law. Local politicians who are to be involved and take responsibility for all the plans make a smaller room for action to influence their own alcohol policies during the period in which they are sitting. Having been rapporteur for some years, I know how important it is to be able to go through and be part of and have a ownership of the alcohol policy in my own municipality. So it's like the government has got a majority in this case to change different things that are just changing the alcohol sales in our country -- the challenge that the World Health Organization is saying is the number three for death and disease. We've changed the tax-free rate. We've changed the opening times. We're going to consult farm sales with quite a large quantity. It's been a dent for advertising. And now you want to change the law, the four-year rule, so that the municipal politicians who are going to be hands-on in all other things will lose that opportunity. Then the Christian People's Party thinks we can make a lot of nice plans, and that's good. But they have to be connected, also with the areas that we find difficult to talk about. Oslo Municipality, which is the largest municipality in our country, Health Directorate and Police Directorate, has said that it is a challenge to this change and is critical of it. The Christian People's Party wants to listen to them and think, as the director says, that there is a prevention element in the four-year rule. And we want to prevent, we want to be there, not to simplify, but to take care of the alcohol policy in the municipalities. It is important for the Christian People's Party actually to maintain this four-year rule. Local politicians will be allowed to see a whole between the public health announcement, the Ruplan, the municipal plan, the centre plan, everything they have, to pursue their alcohol policy in a complete way during the time they are on the watch. That is why the Christian People's Party wants to vote against this amendment. We will vote in favour of the Radiation Protection Act and laser.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e261	In this proposal, the Ministry of Health and Health suggests that municipal sales and donations should not expire after four years as they are today, but can be carried forward without the requirement for new appropriations. The central party believes that the municipalities will be weakened as an alcohol policy actor in this amendment. The Ministry itself writes in its hearing note that the four-year rule has a preventive element because the licensors know that the appropriations will be re-assessed. The judicial authorities that do not support the proposed changes are the Municipality of Oslo, the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Police. Oslo municipality writes: ‘The Four-Year Scheme not only represents an opportunity for local politicians to change the alcohol policy from the previous period, but it contributes to a real clean-up action in the tipping industry. This applies not only to the number of refusals that do not fulfil the conditions of the Alcohol Act, but also to the number of changes of ownership found in the process or sites that are no longer in operation.» They further write: ‘Arbitration is widespread in the industry and work related to the detection of incorrect ownership is a key element in the fight against economic crime and promotes the serious operation of navigable sites.’ The Directorate of Police, too, emphasises in the public hearing that, in a crime prevention perspective, local authorities' control of sales and donations is an important tool to limit the number of unprofessional operators in the industry, and writes: ‘Following the assessment of the Directorate, municipalities will lose an important alcohol policy instrument if the system of fixed-term appropriations is abolished. Regular and permanent renewal of the appropriations will allow municipalities to renew their alcohol policy in the municipalities, change the number of appropriations and change the conditions for appropriations. Søndre Buskerud Police District notes in its hearing opinion that background checks are carried out almost exclusively in connection with the application for a sales or gift authorisation, or its renewal.’;» Propositioners and the government use a reduction in red tape and unnecessary resource use as arguments for liberalising alcohol laws. This is rejected in the hearing statements. The municipality of Oslo writes in its response that they do not consider that the suspension of the time limit for funding will result in economic and administrative savings. They indicate that the ratios currently detected by renewal, by a change, will be detected continuously and through a selection process, and that this work will be at least equal to the amount of time and resources required, if no more, than the current system. The Police Directorate also states that the suspension of the four-year rule and its preventative effect may lead to an increase in the need for police resources. The Health Directorate was also critical of the argument on resource savings. The Government also proposes to open the sale of alcoholic beverages from wholesalers to licensors with a salsaried or puncture permit for a single intended occasion. The centre party thinks this will weaken the position of the Vinmonopole. We believe that the purchase of alcoholic beverages should continue to take place through the wine monopoly, not directly from the wholesaler. So today, the centre party will vote against both amendments to the alcohol laws. The changes in the law are reflected in proposals that would liberalise alcohol policy, which are challenging a public health policy that we in the Central Party believed was behind a multiple in the Stortinget. It is worrying that changes are being made by the government in the field of alcohol policy, in some cases bringing society in a direction of increasing alcohol supply at a lower price. We believe that this alcohol policy is unsolvable. The centre party will support proposals to amend the Radiation Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e298	The left will support today's legal changes. Our principle has been ‘easy to get, easy to lose’ in terms of donations. Trust in the serious is important, and we believe that this change is shifting resources towards combating those who are unprofessional. I want to stop a little bit at the Center Party's choice of hearing recordings. Oslo is used here as an example, and it's rare that Oslo is used as an example of the Center Party. If I look at my own county, one of the largest tourist communities in Norway, with Gjøvik as the largest city, it is such that when I went to town for about. 20 years ago, there were some tips in Gjøvik. Today, it's actually hard to find a place to go, in a city with 30,000 inhabitants. I don't see that this is the big challenge in the districts. As local politicians, we have had a number of things to do. It has puzzled me many times how long and high the pile of applications for ambulatory appropriations is. The demanding issues have been those that are the unprofessional actors, who have broken the rules that we have adopted locally. I think this will turn resources into both increased awareness locally and using resources more correctly. We have a number of tools that have been mentioned here, both price and opening hours, but also the local scan and competence that is important, and now we have a new tool with the dot system. With regard to the public health dimension here, there's reason to be optimistic when one sees the growing generation of alcohol habits, and they don't repeat, to the same extent as us, our bad habits. There is therefore reason to be optimistic on their behalf. The fact that we in Norway should tend to have a liberalist policy of giving is difficult to see all the time we have in Europe perhaps the most restrictive alcohol policy. But there are challenges. When I was in the example of Gjøvik and how few tips we have there today, the drug abuse is not necessarily less visible at night. It's a private consumption that's happening, and that's why we also think it's important to discuss the gift granting principle, that when donations take place in regulated forms, we also have the opportunity to better intervene and control the gift that's going on there. Illegal imports are part of the increased growth in consumption. It is clear that there is a link between high prices in Norway and attractive, illegal imports from countries around us that have significantly lower prices of alcohol. The tax-free discussion is another part of this, and it is clear that there is a cause for concern when the share of the wine monopoly goes down to 50 pst. of the total consumption. There's also a balance sheet we have to be alert to, when so much of the turnover disappears from the regulated part of the turnover.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e315	Municipal sales and donations expire every four years, and all grant holders must apply to the municipality for a new grant. Today's practice is a resource-intensive process for both the municipalities and the authorisation holders. There are good reasons why appropriations should not run indefinitely, without the possibility of changing the terms or withdrawing the appropriations. A fundamental pillar of the alcohol policy is the freedom and responsibility of the municipalities to conduct the policy they believe to be the best and most sound, in their municipality. Both new political regimes, with a desire for a different alcohol policy in the municipality, and changed actual conditions, such as: new public health challenges related to alcohol use make it necessary to re-assess appropriations in the municipality. On the other hand, in many cases renewals are only a practical exercise without any real significance. The current appropriations will be substantially renewed. It is not reasonable to use large resources on renewals in cases where it is clear that this does not entail any changes or when the renewal process has no specific function. Instead, the resources that would be used for the renewal can be used for other activities, such as better controls and dialogue-based cooperation with the beneficiaries. I have therefore proposed a more flexible system than the one we have today. The new system reduces unnecessary bureaucracy and resource use while ensuring the freedom of the municipality's alcohol policy and sound public health policy. I have noticed that someone believes that the bill will weaken the municipality as an alcohol policy actor. Such a development is not desirable, and I have been aware of avoiding a more passive allocation policy in the design of the new scheme. This is one of the reasons why we chose the system to maintain temporary appropriations as a general rule and not to reflect the system by making time-limited appropriations the general rule. Temporary appropriations were just selected to ensure that the municipality makes a real assessment of the need for renewal. In order to further ensure that municipalities pursue a deliberate policy of funding, it has been made necessary for municipalities to assess their alcohol policy after a municipal election, including the policy of funding, before they decide, where appropriate, that all or individual appropriations should continue without re-treatment. I would like to stress that this bill does not impose an obligation on municipalities not to carry out a renewal process. In terms of size and number of appropriations, there is a wide variation between municipalities and when it comes to the alcohol policy pursued in each municipality. A small municipality with few appropriations and transparent conditions and a large municipality with several hundred appropriations will not have the same need to carry out a total renewal process every four years. The legislative proposal therefore opens up the possibility for each municipality to assess for itself whether there is a need to renew all the appropriations in the municipality, or whether some or no person should be required to apply for a new grant. The municipalities that are opposed to the new scheme and feel that it is not suitable for them can carry out the renewals in exactly the same way as today. However, municipalities where there is no need for a complete renewal process will now have the opportunity to continue existing appropriations without going through resource-intensive renewal processes with no real value. The scheme is to be evaluated by SIRUS, which becomes part of the Public Health Institute from New Year’s. A final evaluation will be in time, as the full effect of the legislative change will be visible only after the next municipal elections. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposal to open up wholesale sales to businesses with a single, specific occasion. In my view, this is a sensible simplification of the legislation, which provides a more equal treatment for authorisation holders who are in the same situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e337	I think it's been a year since we last discussed the alcohol law here. We also discussed that there was a slight difference between the municipality and the municipality, to what extent they followed this. It was then promised that perhaps the County Council would have a greater control over the extent to which the municipalities followed this up, so that they could distinguish the municipalities that have a good follow-up to the alcohol law, and those who do not. So the question is, how does the Minister of Health follow up on the enforcement of the alcohol law around the municipalities, and how does he intend to do it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e343	I believe that the change to which the Stortinget has joined and which is now being implemented, namely that we have a common national practice on the enforcement of the alcohol law and reactions, will contribute to a more equal follow-up of the alcohol law in the municipalities. One main purpose of this, which a unanimous Storting has wanted, was to avoid what one sees, namely that there has been too much variation in the enforcement of the alcohol law by municipalities. I also believe that what we're doing today is a grip in the same direction, because if one takes into account the costs described here, it might be up to 100 million. kr that the municipalities use in these processes. I am convinced that many municipalities will be able to use these human resources more effectively in following the alcohol law than in treating and renewing appropriations that one would in any case have approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e350	This is about a theme from my hometown, Bergen. There they are good at getting the temperature up in most cases. Now they're going to take the tipping office back from the diet to the health establishment. Does the minister have any view of where the tipping office should hear at home? We have it under the Health and Care Committee, and I think we are doing well, but in Bergen there is a lot of debate. The question is, will the minister say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e355	I have a lot of respect for local self-government, and where you put the gift control, I think I'm an excellent question for the individual municipality and the individual city council to decide for themselves. I am very pleased that the alcohol policy at a national level is under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and that is also an important approach to this. That is probably also why the Vinmonopoly is part of the Ministry of Health’s responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e360	Not long ago, the Storting adopted norms of withdrawal, and in the Evening Post on November 27, there was a headline that a fear that state-owned dots would frustrate Oslo's bulwark policy. There was a review of the hamlets that was dragged in last year. They included 36 puncture tubes after a break in the rules. With the new standardised national system, only two of these would be drawn. Special reference was made to the donation of minors, where the Municipality of Oslo had zero tolerance until the national rules came. When we look at Oslo Municipality and what the norms lead to, I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State not understand that Oslo Municipality is now applying for a derogation to pursue the bulwark policy that they think is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e367	The whole context of that amendment was that a unanimous collapse in the last period wanted national rules and systems in this area. One consequence of having national systems is that one cannot have exemptions. Then a system could just as well be passed on that this was up to the individual municipality. Another consequence of having a national system is that some municipalities will experience that, according to some of these criteria, they have stricter rules and, according to other criteria, have more liberal rules. Some municipalities have put in place a dot system, but it is that the vast majority of municipalities in Norway do not have that type of system at all. They'll have it now. So, overall, this means strengthening the work of municipalities in complying with the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e374	I would like to ask again about the specific case of Oslo, because Oslo is not any municipality in this context – they have a lot of punctuation. This will particularly apply to the big cities. When it is that out of 36 bulwarks, the new system will only lead to two withdrawals, it means that there is a great degree of liberalisation. At the same time, when the Council of State says that he has clear objectives for alcohol policy and to reduce alcohol-related harm, etc., I have to ask again: Yes, it was a desire of the Storting to have national rules, but they do raise the ceiling. When you do not want to grant a derogation, a re-evaluate the number of dots that will result in a withdrawal when you see what consequences this will have in the large municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e379	This change does not involve liberalisation, but a strong tightening of the ability of municipalities not to follow the intentions of the alcohol law. It will take place at a national level on the basis of national legislation, as the Storting wishes. Then the representative draws out one element for one special period of time. There is no basis for establishing a judgment against this system. It is also true that most sales and donations are not in Oslo, but in the rest of the country. Therefore, if one is to have a national system, one could not rely on just one municipality’s practice. One had to find a balance in this, and I think we found that. In-flight adjustment of these limits is fully possible. There's no problem, but it's a good idea to gain experience before you start adjusting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e386	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e389	SV supports the amendment of the law proposed by the government. Our view is precisely what the Council of State said here, that this is not a liberalisation, but a simplification, which we believe is sensible, and which does not restrict the ability of municipalities to choose to pursue a more restrictive alcohol policy, if they so wish. Nor do I perceive that there is a change that will result in a smaller debate on the policy of making a donation, as long as we maintain the requirement that it be discussed in each parliamentary term. I think that it is crucial that we manage to pursue an alcohol policy where we prevent a donation and a development of the industry that we do not want is an adequate level of control. Therefore, SV, together with a number of other parties, promoted different proposals for other weightings, such as: in terms of the dot system, when we had this up to treatment. That is why, in this position, we have also made a proposal that we believe would contribute to an opportunity for better control. It is linked to the financing of control work. We think it would make sense if the Stortinget allowed the municipalities themselves to adopt additions to the allocation fees, in addition to the rates set today, in order to finance increased control of the donation and sale of alcohol. I would like to address the proposal that SV has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e398	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has then taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e403	The reason why I had to draw my picture again was the representative Ketil Kjenseth, who made a point that the central party in this matter came forward to Oslo Municipality, a hearing dissertation from the Municipality of Oslo, where they argue against this change in law, among other things. because they think it will lead to increased bureaucracy and increased use of resources. In any case, I want to defend the fact that the Central Party actually felt that the Municipality of Oslo is a special hearing authority in these matters. It is, of course, the largest city, it is a big city, and it is clear that it is a large amount of funding that they are responsible for. As the council said in a reply, it's not where most donations are, but it's a big municipality, and it's, we think, an important actor to listen to. That is how today we are amending a Norwegian law. Now we're not talking about making rules for Gjøvik and Uppland. We want to change a Norwegian law, and then we need to look at the feedback we get from those who work the most on this. It's strange, I think, that not only Oslo had experience with a dot load system, but all major cities, both in this case and in the case of norms of withdrawal. They warn against the roof that the majority went in to raise, for example. the fact that giving to minors should lead to withdrawal, but we found that Stortinget went against the big cities and said that they would no longer be allowed to do so. So we actually thought that the Municipality of Oslo is an important hearing body in these matters that is involved in the handling of donations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e413	I will not extend the debate to any significant extent, but I would like to comment on a few things that have been said. The representative of Bollestad points out that municipalities are less able to influence their alcohol policy when we take this decision. She is concerned that municipal politicians must be ‘hands on’. As I understand it, they will have the greatest opportunity to continue to be so, and have the same opportunities as before by assessing their own alcohol policy behind each municipal election. So you don't lose that opportunity, and you can operate like before. In this way, local politicians are not deprived of any responsibility or opportunity to influence their own policies in this area. The representative Toppe, who usually has very great faith in local self-government, does not seem to have it in this matter. I'll record that. But I think she also sees that the municipalities can continue to work like before in this area if they want to. In addition, it is also about giving municipalities the opportunity to release resources that they can use in other areas of this field, such as: control activities and good dialogue. I am also concerned that this helps to provide predictability for further operations and investment for what is of serious industry actors – given what one would like to invest in its own business – and to facilitate the security and good employment, which is important in the period in which it now stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e424	Only two short notes. Several have referred to the consultation opinion of the Municipality of Oslo. There is nothing in the hearing opinion that the Municipality of Oslo cannot continue if they wish to do so as a result of this legislative change. If the Municipality of Oslo believes that the most sensible use of the resources they have in this area is to have a renewal of all applications every four years, they have the full opportunity to do so further, but that is what the Municipality of Oslo and the City Council of Oslo can decide. If Oslo City Council believes that a more sensible use of these resources is to increase the control effort, the Municipality of Oslo can choose it. This could look different in Oslo than in Gjøvik. That's why this is a kind of thinking that I actually thought had some respect in the Center Party, but I'm recording that in these kinds of things it doesn't. Nor is the Storting adopting the number of dots and the rules attached to it. It is laid down in a regulation. This makes it possible to make adjustments along the way in the case of experience. But then it's a good idea to gain experience before you draw the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e447	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e454	On 16 December 2014, the National Institute for Human Rights presented the report Human Rights in Norwegian nursing homes. The report concludes that ‘the treatment in Norwegian nursing homes is unlikely to comply with Norway’s human rights obligations’. Furthermore, the report concludes that there is a need to closely monitor the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals, both in terms of protection against abuse and degrading treatment, to prevent interference with personal integrity and to provide necessary and defensive health care. This is the background for the draft representative, Mr Stortinget, to be discussed today. The proposers believe that the most important solution to these challenges is higher basic staffing in the care of the elderly, better training for the addition of Norwegian hospitals and that basic knowledge of human rights is included in the training. The proposers of my government should also include the relations of hospitals in their reports to international human rights bodies. Both the UN Committee on Human Rights, the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Council of Europe's Torture Prevention Committee include hospitals in their work. A joint committee underlines in its opinion that feedback on violations of human rights in Norwegian care for the elderly must be taken with the utmost seriousness. The Committee is clear that there are no violations of human rights in the care of the elderly. The Committee points out that the focus on undesirable events in primary care services is increasing. It has probably been a great under-reporting before. In particular, the Committee notes that several supervisory reports have identified errors in the use of medicinal products in hospitals. A joint committee indicates in the setting that they share the recommendation from the patient and user environment that health services in the municipalities should be included in the notification system of the National Knowledge Centre and the State Health Authority, and that there should be more local supervision of hospitals and that patients and relatives should be involved in the supervision. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left supports the proposal to monitor the human rights situation of the elderly in the country's hospitals. The proposal to include the conditions of Norwegian hospitals in the reports to international human rights bodies was supported by the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The same parties support the proposal to call on the government to take concrete measures to prevent abuse in hospitals through reinforced staffing and better training. The proposal to call on the government to launch a review of the systems for the control and review of the rights of the sick home dwellers is supported by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal to make resources available for voluntary work to support human rights work in the care of the elderly was also supported by the Centre Party. When it comes to the proposal to bring forward a case concerning the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Labour Party, the Left and the Centre are behind a proposal to ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate way with a view to this as soon as the pending settlement on this matter is completed and the consequences are clarified. I would like to thank the proposers for doing this. Get Document No. Eight proposals have such a serious backtrace. According to the scope of health and care law, the provision of services must be organised with respect for the integrity and dignity of individuals. The lack of care in the nursing home may in itself lead to debilitating treatment. It may be about not changing the patient who needs it. It may be neglected oral care, delayed care longer than necessary or inadequate treatment of wounds and injuries, lack of pain, or not being allowed to enter fresh air. It may be mismedication, and there may be challenges and lack of something as simple as securing their inhabitants' access to food and drink. The law to regulate this is good, but reality can be another out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e482	Let me start by commending the representatives of SV who bring important issues into the debate on care for the elderly. The back door here is that last year's National Institute for Human Rights produced the report Human Rights in Norwegian nursing homes. The report refers to the fact that the situation of residents of Norwegian hospitals cannot be said to comply with Norway’s human rights obligations. The report also calls for a thorough monitoring of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals. It is necessary to ensure that people are protected from ill - treatment and degrading treatment, and to prevent interference with the personal integrity of individuals. Hospital and nursing home residents must also be provided with the necessary and sound health care. I would like to mention that during the period 2009-2012, the State Health Authority had a targeted oversight of services for the elderly, where a wide range of themes in municipal health and care services were subject to supervision. The findings of the Health Inspectorate provide the basis for the references to the care of the elderly in the report of the National Institute for Human Rights, which forms the basis of the present proposal for a representative. To achieve high quality at all levels of care for the elderly, we need a safe and predictable public health and care policy. It is a fundamental principle that everyone should have equal access to good health care, and then it is important that the overall organisation, distribution, financing and use of resources and professional competence be managed by and for the community. A key factor in achieving good quality of care is competent staff. The working party will raise the formal level of education in health care and provide workers without formal health education with the opportunity to acquire new competences. A decentralised training structure for the different professionals can ensure good professional quality and sufficient staff across the country. We need to train good managers in municipal health and care services and have services based on regular employment and full positions. If we are to succeed in providing high-quality services to all older people, we need to have transparency on all aspects of the operation of welfare services. It is such that the Public Health Act is practised differently in the care of the elderly. While, for example, a town that Trondheim has long had great transparency about all aspects of the municipality's care for the elderly, Oslo, under the bourgeois regime, which has now been replaced, has had a completely different and opposite practice. More publicity is an important principle and must be sought by all those who provide welfare services, but it is difficult when government parties so strongly advocate the outsourcing and commercialisation of care for the elderly. It is precisely such a policy as, among other things. have led to the fact that aspects of the operation of private commercial hospitals in the capital, as I mentioned, have been exempt from disclosure, on grounds of professional secrecy relating to ‘business secrets’. In order to ensure safe and good quality, full transparency and understanding of all relevant aspects of the operation of nursing homes, such as: degree of competence, manning and aberrations — completely independent of the ownership and operational status of nursing homes. One measure to prevent commercial operators from keeping key quality indicators secret is to introduce full transparency requirements into the terms of the tender and the call for tenders. Openness is also about being able to open the door — all the way up — between institutions and society around. Hospitals and other institutions must function in such a way as to meet the life they live outside their own walls. In addition to following up the work carried out by the Health Authority, it is important that residents themselves, families, friends and communities are involved in monitoring and providing knowledge of the quality of institutions. In particular, the State Health Inspectorate and the County Patient and User Ombudsmen must help us to improve our knowledge and understanding of the conditions of nursing homes. The Labour Party supports five of the six proposals put forward by the proposers in the proposal for a representative, so I am addressing here the proposals on which the Labour Party shares several other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e503	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e506	Stories of failures and violations of human rights in the care of the elderly make a strong impression. But the stories and the report on the failure and violation of fundamental human rights are not new information. In fact, there is no lack of reports and monitoring of care for the elderly in Norway. In order to avoid unnecessary use of coercion, but also to regulate the necessary use of coercion, it was important to develop new rules for the use of coercion in the care service. That's what's better known as Chapter 4(A) of the Patient and User Rights Act. Because some patients, especially those with dementia, are unable to assess their own situation, and therefore health care is opposed without understanding its scope. That law entered into force in 2009. In the light of the findings of the report of the National Institute for Human Rights, it is necessary to ask whether a power of initiative is needed to increase the competence of the national institution for human rights and the framework within which it is to be used. From the day one, the Right Party government has been concerned with improving quality, but also with ensuring that we get more knowledge of quality in care services. Through budgetary priorities and important communications to Stortinget, we have shown that we are committed to building a highly professional care service in the municipalities. So we're going to watch out for the situation in the care of the elderly in Norway. It may lead to an unjustified fear of coming to a hospital or receiving services. It can also de motivate and prevent the recruitment of health professionals in the sector. We know that there are many who are satisfied with the offer they receive today, but we have a big challenge that there is too much variation between municipalities, because we have too little overview of quality and capacity at national level. We don't solve human rights violations or miscarriage just by hiring more people in the sector. Unfortunately, it doesn't just keep warm hands. Both warm hands and wise heads are required to provide high-quality professional health services. The government is taking current challenges seriously and has launched many important actions. Developments in competence and management are issues that are highly prioritised in the work of the government. Competence 2020 is an action plan for recruitment, competence and professional development. The Government has strengthened the commitment to empowerment of employees without a health and social background by increasing the contribution to basic, continuing and continuing training, and in addition, a leadership training for the health and care sectors is established. With Minister of Health Bent Höie, Stortinget has now received annual reports on quality and patient safety. The second notification is currently under consideration in the Committee. Here it is particularly important to note that the patient and user representatives mention the hospital services in particular, and I look forward to dealing with this in the Stortinget. The notification of medicinal products, which is also the subject of the Committee's proceedings, provides for a systematic review of medicinal products by all municipalities for all elderly people in hospital homes. It is an important and effective tool to ensure the proper use of medicinal products and to prevent damage to patients. Then the government has proposed a safety standard for Norwegian nursing homes. A municipal health and care register shall be established, and the care of the elderly is also an area in which volunteers make an important effort. This government has increased support for non-governmental organisations, inter alia: to prevent loneliness among the elderly. It also applies to institutions. Ensuring us against human rights violations in the care of the elderly is definitely not just about hiring more people in care. Although it is an important responsibility of leaders and politicians to ensure quality, it is not their responsibility alone. We need to stimulate a cultural change in the care service that causes each health worker to take active ownership of quality. It also means that the voices of relatives and users need to be strengthened, because they are also important change agents, and they need to be more involved. This is why we want to set up user and family services in hospitals in Norway, so that their voices can be actively involved in the development of health care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e529	A couple of things first. I very much agree with the proposers that human rights are important. It is definitely important that human rights violations do not occur in Norway. It should not be done in any areas, but it is definitely important in this area, which concerns the elderly and sick who are nurturing and who need help. That is why I am pleased that the representatives have taken up the proposal for a representative, but I have to say that when I look at the proposals in the vote, I think there are proposals that do not really respond to what the representatives are writing about, and which are on the basis of the proposal here, because it is about the measures to be taken to prevent human rights violations in the care of the elderly to continue to happen or to happen. Then there are some other important things that you have to bring with you. For the Progress Party, it is about us now in the process of introducing state funding for the care of the elderly. We believe that this is a very important measure. We are pleased that the government is involved, and that the Minister of Health is involved and carrying out an experiment, just to ensure that you get better funding, that you can have increased staffing, that you can give a different priority than what you do today, and that you also look at a model where you have two models, one where the state is much more active with, and one where you increase the allocations to the municipalities and municipalities get more freedom to spend this money. In this way you can see how you can give the best offer and how you can strengthen the manpower. We ensure that the municipalities can now keep a waiting list. If we are to ensure that there are no violations of human rights in the care of the elderly and in nursing homes, we need to know how many people are actually standing out there and need a place, in order to facilitate a good offer and to ensure that everyone who needs it gets the offer they need. Then there is a requirement for proof of good conduct, which the government has now sent out to the hearing – to which the previous government said no, to which the previous government would not have. Some of the things left in the report are just breaking and assaulting those who are residents of institutions such as hospitals and nursing homes. Other things that the government is about to do in connection with the notification of medicinal products are to look at the use of medication. We know that there is a lot of medication at Norwegian nursing homes. There's also something that's being taken up. So it's especially, when you're concerned about the report, so at least I'm reading it, that many of the findings that the Health Authority has made are largely the findings that are pointed out are violations of human rights. This is something that the Council of State has already grasped. Already in June he had meetings with user and related organisations. He has met with the Health Authority, he has met with professionals, he has had meetings with employees, precisely because he is busy doing something about this and preventing human rights violations. It is the Progress Party and the Right – Government – occupied by. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State is offensive in these areas. It's a little special that those who have promoted the proposal for a representative, and those who are behind the proposals that lie here, are so high and dark, when the reality is that most of the breaches that the report addresses are fractures that occurred on the watch of the red-green parties. We have a discussion with SV. It's like working with a crew standard. I – and the Progress Party – believe that the staff of hospitals in Norway must rise. We see that there are major challenges, and that has happened a lot. In the context of the interaction reform, there was a shift from having completely different patients to what you have today. This means strengthening staff in hospital services. In addition to working too fully to do something about skills, this government is in the process of getting better managers – making our leaders better – in this sector. It's incredibly important. Then I want to say two things at the end. One is that I very much agree with the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, on the point that you have to be open about deviations, that you have to make deviations visible. There should not be anything negative for a municipality to say that you have anomalies, if you do something about it. If you make sure you correct the deviations, it's very good, but if you don't do anything about the deviations, it's very bad. Knowing how things stand is very important. It is the Progress Party that is concerned that we need to get more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e555	We must strive to ensure that all elderly and nursing people experience a worthwhile old age even when health fails. When diseases occur, older people will be more dependent on their immediate and healthcare services in the municipality in which they live. But the world is such that not everyone has relatives. It will then be particularly important for the public offer to extend to the full, and for the individual to be guaranteed a comprehensive and, not least, safe care. The Christian People’s Party believes that care for the elderly has received an undeservedly bad reputation. In general, we have good care for the elderly, and we have an awful lot of everyday heroes in the care of the elderly, but there is always room for improvement. 80 pst. by residents of Norwegian nursing homes are older people with different dementias. Many of them lack consent skills and are therefore particularly vulnerable and commended to the employees of municipal health and care services. Employees in municipal health and care services are pushed to the extreme by many places. In 2015, Telemarksforschung and Norsk Nursing Association asked a question of 2,705 caregivers about time use and resources, and a whole of 72 pst. said, "We don't have enough time for treatment and follow-up." I agree with the representative Wilhelmsen Troeen that it is important for both wise heads and good hands, but sometimes they say the wise heads: I don't have enough hands, I just don't have enough. Health surveillance reports from 2010 and 2011 show that many users are being mistreated or over-medicated. There is a lack of competence and management in the business. Half also say that older people do not get the security, association and meaningful activity they deserve. Therefore, this goes beyond the basic offer and patient safety. Patients and their relatives experience insecurity and lack of follow-up at some places. There is a need for more staff and for different skills in nursing homes, day-care services and home care. Hospital doctors often have a low employment rate in relation to the real needs, although the number of medical staff has increased. That is why the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget proposes to increase the appropriation by 0.5 billion. kr to just this, just to improve medication and to better be able to see the whole human being. The Christian People's Party is concerned that quality is also about manning. It's about having time to reflect and have ethical reflection in the nursing homes: why do we do what we do? Why is it and that patient so unbeatable? What's going on? Why is it like this when I go in, but not when you go in? This is about having time for ethical reflection, treating people from what they are, and taking care of the whole human being. It's important for quality, but it's most important for it. It's about getting a 24-hour beat and feeling safe. The Christian People's Party is absolutely convinced that much can be better, even though much is good. It's about individuals who are in a basic situation, and where they need our help. The Christian People's Party will state that in the event of an incubation, the proposals we support have not been made. We support the proposal No. One, two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e576	I would first like to thank Mr SV for raising this very important debate. So today's debate reflects that it is demanding to agree on which measures work best to combat violations of human rights in the care of the elderly. We are also talking about institutional care in general and the vulnerable situation of those in dependency with other people. Of course, part of the challenge is the manned situation we have in the care sector. One of the answers for the future is to ensure the recruitment of this important subject area. Human rights are important to all, but especially to vulnerable groups. Extraly vulnerable are those who are in an institution, those who have a developmental disability, and children who are under public care. I want supervisory systems and control bodies to pay particular attention to the debate here today, because we see that there is a great difference in the functioning of supervision in municipalities. Some municipalities use elderly people's councils and have the tradition of being older is the competence needed to be the supervisory body for institutions in the care sector. It's a debate we have to get out of and out of. Some municipalities have started to open a professional supervisory committee. I think it's interesting. Then there are some municipalities that systematically use the audit committees as an auditor. Trondheim municipality, for example, systematically enters one institution each year and has thus built up competence within its control body in the case of nursing and care institutions. There is a systematics that I think are missing in a lot of municipalities, and for which Trondheim Municipality should have great praise. We have to strive for similar systematics in several municipalities. We are facing some challenges that may not have been so clearly addressed here today. It's about ethnic minorities, of which we'll get more and more in the institutions in the future. It will address challenges related to competence in language and culture. When the committee was visiting one of the dementia villages in the Netherlands, we saw that people with either different religion or different ethical backgrounds were placed together. Here we have something to learn in Norway about how to think new things to ensure rights in different areas. This will also apply to those who have a different sexual orientation, and of which there will be more in the institutions, where we know more about what needs and challenges they have in common. Then we're about which actors we're going to have to play in the future. The challenge of the care sector is so great that we need to use all hands that are willing to contribute, including a good number of ideal and private actors. In Oslo, we have the Francis help that is especially concerned with the care and care of those who are in the last place. It is an offer I miss in other parts of the country, and it is an example that here we have a great job to do in disseminating skills that we have acquired. This is not just about resources in public, especially municipal care, but of course it is all about it. KS's work on ethics is an example of how the municipal sector has started working on this, and how some municipalities have started working with ethical reflections. That's why there's a set of tools and resources we're facing, but we have to make sure that we don't build up too much bureaucracy, and just that, in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e593	Karin Andersen and I have promoted six rather simple but clear proposals. We have done that because we have received very clear advice from the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights. For those who criticised the proposals for inadequacy, among others: The representative of Hoksrud: I think this is a strange argument to vote against them, but it was the recommendations contained in this report that I hope all in the committee have looked at thoroughly. It's almost a year since it came. The reason why SV has promoted these proposals is that it is difficult for us to see any follow-up to that government report. That's why we did it with hope that we could come up with something that all the parties could agree on. That's why I'm mainly disappointed that it hasn't been possible, and a little surprised at the fact that the government parties have not been able to meet us any more on this which is really modest proposals linked to a serious challenge. I think it would have dressed the Storting if we had managed to collect something more in terms of the will of, for example. This is so fundamental as to identify the extent of human rights violations in Norwegian care for the elderly. Knowledge, insight and transparency are essential for action. I think it should be possible to agree across this room on concrete measures to prevent abuse in hospital homes or to carry out a review of how health care residents' rights are actually respected – to strengthen their volunteering a little. Several of these proposals are difficult to understand that it should not be possible to get a majority for, or at least a clear promise that you will continue to work with. The simplest thing, which was a main requirement also from those behind the report, namely the missing mapping, I think it is particularly strange that one cannot promise to carry it out. Since the representative Hoksrud gave me a visit, I would like to give him a copy of this debate, because we have got the Senior General of the Advance Party into the Committee. I think it's a pity that the new general can't even make sure that we get this mapping, which, at my best discretion, would be a very useful tool for those within the majority who are working to get more concrete action in terms of better care for the elderly. When it comes to being high and dark, one may like to blame the opposition for it, but now the Right Party and the Advance Party have run the country for more than two years, and it has to end that in all debates we hear that all problems are caused by the previous government. It's unprofessional. The current majority of people have managed long enough for it to be time to take responsibility. Then I think it would have been good if Bård Hoksrud himself chose to be tall and dark on his watch and say: Here we take responsibility, here it does not happen enough, here we shall do more. That would have been good. But the situation now is that there is a lot of evidence that the standard of manning, which we believe is a lot of the solution to this, is parked. The representative of Hoksrud says something else, but I am dealing with what the Council of State says, and it has not been possible to get any promise from the Council of State that a standard of manning will come – on the contrary, there is much to suggest that the government chooses solutions other than that. We were told earlier this week that the attempt to finance the state, which has been the flagship of the Progress Party in the policy of the elderly, is now so little popular that only 24 municipalities have applied to join. It is a rather ominous signal also about how strong faith there is out there on this solution, which is what is left of the Progress Party beautiful promises to the elderly. Many of the proposals that are really needed to do something about this are big and will cost a lot. The proposals we have made today are quite limited and will not cost much. But the bigger reason it would have been to get together about some of them. I think those who have done the important work on this report, all the people who are concerned that we are doing something with the conclusions, will be disappointed that there is so little coming out of this. I am pleased that, after all, there are a good number of parties that have supported several of our proposals. I would like to address the one proposal that SV is on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e612	The representative Audun Lighthouse took up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e616	I can answer the representative Lysbakken that there has been a majority of concrete proposals that follow up this report. There has been a majority both in the primary health notification that the Stortinget has dealt with, and not least in the government budget adopted for that year, and also in the government budget that will be adopted for next year. It's a majority that SV doesn't belong to. I can promise that the proposals are neither limited nor cheap. On the contrary, they are comprehensive and will cost a lot of money. So there are a number of proposals that have been adopted, which one is now implementing in this area, but there is not always SV. I am very pleased that 24 municipalities have applied to join the scheme of state funding. Unfortunately, there's only room for 20 municipalities, because that's what the experiment is, but 24 applicants are very good. The proposal we are discussing today is based on the report Human Rights in Norwegian nursing homes. This is a very important report that I take very seriously. The report is based on findings that have been made through many of the regular oversight activities and those that take place in order to identify such issues. The most important thing about the report in my view is that it puts the right words on what's going on, that's a violation of human rights. I hope that I contribute to – and we already see that – getting more attention about this. In meeting with the Health Directorate and the State Health Authority, I have assured myself that they will give priority to this in the further work. From meeting with professionals and employees in the sector, I have also received concrete insights into how to improve the quality of the service. In June, I arranged a meeting with users' and relatives' organisations to hear what they think is good quality, and what they think needs to be done to enable users to meet their basic needs. They clearly stated that there is not necessarily a need for more laws, but for more training and compliance with the laws and regulations we have. They indicated the need for increased staffing, better training and more competent staff, and not least their emphasis on the importance of good management. Users and relatives confirm what I have previously received from a professional team. The main challenges of nursing homes are competence and management. The user groups are becoming increasingly fragile, and they have demanding and complex needs. Strengthening competence in several areas and developing better management at all levels is needed to ensure the proper provision of services to vulnerable elderly people. Both of these themes have been prioritised by the government in the prime health service announcement to which the Stortinget has just joined, in the 2020 title of the state budget for 2016, which is part of the reconciliation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Competence in 2020 is the government’s plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services. The plan includes, inter alia: a national management training for primary health services and a common senior management programme for the whole health and care sector. The search for leadership training has been very good, and it shows that there is a great demand for more and better leadership training in municipalities. The Top Leader Programme is under development as a cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services, where senior managers from both parts of the healthcare system will now have a common senior management programme. The aim is to strengthen management and management development throughout the service. Healthcare professionals lack a tool to improve the quality of supply. Together with user and related organisations, professional organisations and KS, the Health Directorate is now launching the development and testing of a safety standard that can be used by all hospitals in the country. The security standard shall include, inter alia: concrete how the nursing home can ensure good management, organisation and professional practices, including staffing. Although we do not support SV's proposal for a crew standard, it is precisely to ensure good enough staff to have good, safe services as part of the follow-up to the safety standard. I have recently presented Dementia Plan 2020, and with this plan, we are creating a more dementia-friendly society that is just aimed at integrating people with dementia into the community. This requires greater transparency and increased knowledge of dementia in society in general and in service in particular. Over 80 pst. of those who today live in a nursing home who have a dementia. However, today’s municipal health and care services are not adequately built and organised for people with dementia and their relatives. Therefore, changes in competence, organisation and physical development are also necessary here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e647	Transparency is essential if we are to ensure quality in care for the elderly. Just before the elections in the autumn, there was a debate on a question that was asked to the then Oslo City Council on whether action would be taken against private actors who kept important aspects of their own operations hidden, such as crewing, competence and aberrations, etc., on the grounds that they were business secrets. The City Council rejected this as a problem, but then Oslo rapporteur Fabian Stag went to an interview in the evening post far to admit that he was not comfortable with such a practice. Is the Council of State in agreement with its Party trap Stag, and in that case will he take the initiative to require the same information and the same transparency from senior care drivers, whether they are private or public?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e654	My answer to whether I agree with the previous rapporteur in Oslo is clearly yes. I believe that municipalities that enter into agreements with private individuals must demand that they have that kind of transparency, so that they can compare. Some of the intention to have a diversity in this area, because the municipalities that choose it – this is up to the municipalities themselves to choose – is in order to be able to compare hospitals as a self-employed person, hospitals run by ideals, and hospitals run by commercial operators. One must have knowledge of that kind of relationship in order to be able to compare. We have also recently received the investigation With open cards – Prevention and follow-up of serious incidents in healthcare services. In particular, the committee has looked at how patients, users and relatives can be better cared for after serious incidents and whether patient and user rights should be strengthened. In this context, it is also assessed whether the municipalities should be covered by the notification scheme. It was a change in the committee's mandate that was made after I became Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e663	It is fine, I think, that the Council of State agrees with the reasoning previously expressed by the rapporteur, Mr Stag, that there should be the same requirements for private and public drivers. But I notice that the Council of State says it should be up to the municipality. When we can then sense the same trends among private drivers in the specialist health service, and when the Council of State is concerned with obtaining data from both the specialist health service and the local health service, is it not important to make the same demands everywhere and say that a municipality cannot choose to accept important information such as business secrets?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e673	The municipalities are responsible for the contracts they enter into with private persons. The law in that area is the same as it has been for many years. Then I don't feel that representative feels about the specialist health service. The agreements concluded there have very clear requirements in these areas, at least as I am familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e678	I believe, and the Council of State is certain that it is unworthy, and that it must be prevented, that a driver carrying the very sickest, crippled elderly, would like in time before a death. We know that there are ghastly examples of that happening. I know that Health Bergen reported 200 ambulance transports to and from hospitals in 2014, where the head of the ambulance said that much should be avoided. And then we also have messages from the media that this is the case where patients die either in the ambulance or immediately afterwards. My question is, does the Council of State think it might be an idea to look at whether we could ignore the liability, as we can say a lot about, if we know that the patient is in the last phase of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e685	It is very important that it is the professional assessment that is used when deciding whether to send the patient from hospital to hospital, or from hospital to home or hospital. I'm very afraid to go in and use economic instruments in the area that can reinforce the impression that it's the economy that's going to govern this. What I think is a better solution is to raise awareness of this in the interaction forums established between the hospitals and the municipalities. People who are dying shall not be sent out of hospitals. Too much is also the lack of competence, medical coverage and good enough professional systems in nursing homes as a reason for people being sent unnecessarily from nursing homes to nursing homes. The best thing we can do in this area is to improve interaction and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e692	I want to address the last thing that the Council of State said, that medical coverage is often a challenge. We know that in hospitals there is one doctor in three patients – they share a doctor. In Norwegian nursing homes it is approx. one doctor of 130 patients and each patient has six to seven diseases. So the council said 80 pst. of those in Norwegian nursing homes who also have dementia in some form. When we know that medical coverage is so poor and we also know that the challenges on the competence side are great, what will the Council of State do to bring up medical coverage in Norwegian municipalities, especially in Norwegian hospitals, when we see that the gap is so great between what is in Norwegian hospitals and what is in the community health service and the institutions of good health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e699	I fully agree that the medical coverage at home is a major challenge for the quality of the services provided, and it provides users with quite complex, complex disorders an offer that is not good enough. It is also well documented that having good medical coverage is of great importance for quality – not least because it contributes overall to a strengthened professional environment. The fact that the nurses in a nursing home know the doctor who is responsible for the nursing home and can discuss specific cases also contributes to a continuous improvement in their competence in the service. So, in my opinion, this will be a very central theme in the work now being done on creating a health home security standard. Then, fortunately, we also see that there is an improvement in this area. More and more municipalities are becoming aware of the importance of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e707	I would like to have a clearer answer to the question of the standard of navigation, because the health minister says he is against SV's proposal for a standard of navigation. However, the SV's proposal for a standard of personnel is quite identical to the proposal of the Advance Party for a standard of crews, which is still relevant, as far as I understand the representative of Hoksrud. Therefore, I would like to have a clear answer to the following simple questions: Will the government introduce a standard that imposes a given crew on a nursing home?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e712	As I have answered the representative Lysbakken time and time again – because this is not the first time this question is asked – the government is now working with a safety standard for the health home through the work that has been started and to which money has also been allocated in the State budget of the Health Directorate. In this context, manning will also be part of a theme. That's our way of solving that challenge. But at the same time, we need to ensure that the whole thing is evaluated, and that one does not come into a situation where one can have a deportation on staff, and so believe that it in itself maintains the quality of services. Manning, competence, quality systems and the type of competence that you have need to be viewed in a context, because you have to get away from a notion that counting your hands is the way to ensure the quality of this service. It's the wise heads that primarily represent quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e717	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e722	As regards proposal No: 3, I would like to comment that the government has said that they will now consider looking into the context of the investigations at the hearing, before concluding whether Norway should join some of the protocols. So we want to await the government's work, and expect the Storting to come back to the matter when the government has concluded. I actually drew myself out because of the contribution of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, for every time we discuss care for the elderly, these comments come from private and nonprofits who provide care services at the public's expense. 90 pst. of Norwegian elderly care is municipally operated, and approx. 10 pst. are operated by private and non-profits with agreements. It is a completely faulty diagnosis to believe that the quality challenge in Norwegian care for the elderly is about who delivers the services. The differences in quality do not follow the dividing lines between ideal or private ownership and municipal ownership. And as I said in my main post, the challenges of variation in quality in elderly care in Norway is that there are so many differences between municipalities. The municipality of Oslo measures quality and is thus an illustrative example. The private and ideals score on the surveys about the same quality and significantly better than the municipal authorities. It is that we need a diversity also in Norwegian care for the elderly. I'm seriously worried about a confusion of that diversity. The Health Committee has seen for itself how the private-run Mangle Home operates high-quality dementia care. There is innovation, there is innovation also in the private sector, and I believe that care for the elderly needs it in the years to come. I am unfortunately not high and dark, but I am small and dark, and I am incredibly proud of what this government is now doing in the care area, with the messages being delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e733	The representative Lightbakken said that knowledge and overview were important, and that it was therefore important to follow up the proposals that included: SV has been promoting today. Yes, we have a great deal of knowledge. We know well how it is out there. I think most people know very well how it is. The county doctors are controlling the situation in the home service, and we have the Health Inspectorate who has been running their checks over four years, so I think the knowledge and overview are pretty good. But when the representative Lysbakken thought it was bad that only 24 municipalities had requested to join our attempt, I would like to say that more than 400 Norwegian municipalities believe that they do not need more money to provide the citizens with their good services. I think it is nice, because there is no doubt that this proposal contains 171 million. kr for next year. There is an estimate which means that it is actually possible to get even more money to the municipalities that want to join the experiment. At least it does not correspond to the picture that SV draws in this case and how they draw the situation in the care of the elderly in Norway. But I can promise the representative Lysbakken: When politicians sit on the municipal board and deal with the matter and say that there have been no issues in the media lately, so that's why we are doing well with the elderly in our municipality, or unfortunately it's so that representatives come after and say to representatives who have suggested that we really agreed with you, but we didn't get to vote with you – that's how it becomes a minority to join in new attempts that will provide citizens with better services and better services in the care sector. I think it's sad that you run this way, that it's ideology that in many municipalities, you have chosen not to join this new testing scheme. There are 24 municipalities that have applied, but the 20 that are going to be allowed to join, I think I'm going to join in on something exciting. I think they're going to agree on something that will add to the leadership of what it's going to look like in the future, and how to better care for the elderly, and they're going to get more money for their residents. It's a little bit of a shame that the more than 400 others have picked it off. So maybe it's a shame for the four municipalities that don't get the opportunity to join this good try. I just want to say – because I didn't say it in the first place, and the time goes out immediately – that there are an incredible number of people doing a great job out there, and we must not forget that either. Because when you look at the matter, you can almost hide and think that it's just bad, but it's incredibly good. Then it's to address the challenges and the places where it's missing, and make sure to fix it, and make sure that you no longer have a violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e748	To the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen: I fully agree with the representative that we need diversity. We need that diversity in the public sector, the public services, and the ideals we want. What's the best? And who is the one that scores the highest on quality? The serious research we have, a bit here to countries, a lot in Sweden and internationally, shows that when the major commercial actors get into the vulnerable care of the elderly – and now we're talking about the big players, it's the ones who are more and more taking over – the quality goes down when you compare it to both ideal and public. We were presented at the NOVA Research Foundation in the previous period, a large study carried out in several countries, which showed this. We can probably have a discussion about that again and again, and we can refer to internal investigations in Oslo, but if we look at the measurement of elderly care on rather specific parameters and compare the five largest cities in Norway – that was a survey that the Evening Post pointed to in the autumn before the elections – Oslo came out the worst in terms of care for the elderly, both in terms of the number of doctors in nursing homes, in terms of skills in the crew, etc. There were also some suggestions that did not indicate that the freedom of choice was so great in the private care of elderly people in Oslo. The representative speaks of the fact that we have the most public health services and public care for the elderly. Yeah, lucky for you. It's not that we don't have a great potential for improvement there. That's absolutely what we have. But my question to the Council of State went on the secret, the business secrets, which were referred to under the bourgeois regime in Oslo. I'm glad the Council of State said he doesn't want to. I am also pleased that the representative of Hoksrud said that the Progress Party does not want it either. So then you have to assume that such contracts that can keep business secrets on important quality parameters are not valid, and that the government will counter it. And then I want to refer to a former Health Minister from the Right, Leif Arne Heløe, who in a very good article in Minerva two to three years ago called this to have private and commercial actors in the care of the elderly for a quasi-market that does not have market characteristics on how a market should be to function.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e759	It's just to say once again that if you cut through all the ambiguity that embraces the rhetoric of the government parties around the standard of manning, there's absolutely nothing to suggest that the Minister of Health assesses a standard of manning the type proposed by the Advance Party in the past. Then it would have been possible to say it in a much clearer way so that even I understood it. I think we have to conclude that it's not going to be any of that. I think that's a shame. As far as the trial is concerned, the Minister of Health said that there is nothing to do with the fact that there is 24 who have applied, because there are 20 who are to be included. I am very aware that there are only 20 municipalities to join, but it is clear that it means that there is very little to choose from when to start this experiment. And I think again that the representative Hoksrud is closer to the truth when he's disappointed in that number. It is only to note that this attempt has got a very bad start. So you might ask yourself why. I don't think that's how municipal politicians sit around the country and think they have enough resources to care for the elderly. We have given a very clear message to our municipal politicians that we have not thought they should be kept away from this attempt for ideological reasons. Everyone has to consider whether this could be something worth trying for their municipality. But it is clear that politicians across party colors have, to a small extent, assessed it this way around Norway. I think it's due to a scepticism, which I share, to the very model that lies here with the national price, which can quickly become very bureaucratic and some kind of national stopping logic that is not what is needed in the care of the elderly. Then I want to agree with the representative of Hoksrud – and I always think it is important that we say in these debates – that there is an incredible amount of good in the care of the elderly, and we should be grateful to those who do a great job, but at the same time remember that no one is so eager after we're going to do something about what's bad, like those who work there themselves, because they see it in their jobs, and it's hard on them. Finally, since the Christian People's Party now announced that they will vote in favour of proposal No. Thirdly, I believe that, for the sake of order, I should also like to express my subsidiary support for that proposal. I think it's very gratifying that we can get a majority for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e772	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e775	I understand that the representative Lysbakken is trying to create a disagreement between the Council of State and the undersigned. It's not. The council was very clear that it is of course about having a crew, but it is also about having the right competence. We see in some places where you don't have the right skills, that you use more people to do the same job that you could do if you had the right skills. This is why, of course, it's about competence, manpower and good management. All of these things are important in putting together how this should be. I don't want a minimum crew. I want the right manning to handle the different offers that the individual needs. It's the individual we need to see, the user, and the individual needs. It's most important when we're going to make this. That's why we have to look at the whole thing. But, of course, there is a standard of manpower in the agreement, and it has also been clearly stated by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e782	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e785	It cannot be said as the last word in the debate that the Council of State has been clear on this, because it has really not been. But the representative of Hoksrud is clear on that, and I fully agree. We are not talking about a wish for a minimum crew, but about a given crew that needs to be seen in accordance with and in conjunction with competence requirements and other requirements. I think everyone who heard the answers we've received today sees that here's the distance between Hoksrud and Höie. It is very difficult to interpret the Council of States in any other way than that a standard of command of the type proposed by the Party of Advances, for which SV is in favour, we are not going to get it in this period, and I think that is a sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e791	Repeated times, both in this debate – and not least – in relation to all the questions we have had about this, I have tried to tell the representative Lighthouse about how we work on this. Now it is also confirmed that the representative Hoksrud fully agrees with how we work here, and I am pleased that this is well communicated. Now only the representative Lighthouse once again has to take this into account: it's being worked on the way we said. Why is this so important? Well, not least because of the study that the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen referred to, where we have studied what we have today about quality and effort in this area, and which makes Kristiansand the best way out of the municipalities. Kristiansand municipality does not spend the most resources on the care of the elderly, but Kristiansand municipality has organized the service, probably in a wise and not least systematic way, and has invested in the right form of staffing and in the right competences. It is incredibly important when we now deal with stronger government governance in this area – there is no doubt that we are doing through a number of measures – that stronger government does not help municipalities to make wrong priorities, but builds up what results, such as us. see from Kristiansand municipality. Simple solutions to just one problem in this area make it very quick for municipalities to be forced to use resources in such a way that we do not get better, but poorer quality out of resources. That's why we have to look at this in a whole. To the representative Knutsen: The main challenge today is not that we know too little about the private actors in this area. The main challenge is that it is the overall care and care service that are in many ways secret services in Norway, and we have extremely little knowledge of this type of service. This is also one of the reasons why we are now prioritizing the establishment of a quality register for municipal health and care services, because this is an area where unfortunately we lack a lot of knowledge about quality and lack the ability to compare in a good enough way. Before we know it, there's a lot that tells us that the right thing and the most important thing is to bet on the right skills, on the right level, but of course also on the right scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e800	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e816	The flow of refugees towards Europe means that none of us can be absolutely sure of how many will seek asylum in Norway in the coming years. All we're sure is that there will be many. We are in a situation where there will be a significant number of refugees and asylum seekers in Norway, and those who are coming will, according to Prime Minister Erna Solberg, receive a simple but genuine offer. In Norway, everyone has the right to health and care services. Asylum seekers have the same rights to healthcare as the rest of the population. According to the Directorate-General for Health’s guidance, asylum seekers, refugees and family reunions are required to receive ‘somatic and mental health care’. It is the host municipality that is responsible for health services for asylum seekers and refugees, both in reception and when they are settled. Norway has a model of healthcare where there is little special services for refugees or people with a cultural and linguistic background different from the Norwegian one. Our health services shall be organised in such a way that there is sufficient competence to provide these groups with the services they need, and, if necessary, municipalities may also, of course, ask for advice and support from the specialist health service. As new reception is now established in many municipalities in the country, municipalities have to take this responsibility and plan for increased health care needs. Norwegian laws, international conventions and professional guidelines underpin the right of asylum seekers and refugees to help, and the obligation of healthcare professionals to help, including in the promotion of mental health. This also applies to people who have an uncertain legal status or who are unlikely to remain in Norway. In this area, psychologists have an important expertise in work, and the legal and other context becomes essential in assessing the types of action that will be most useful. There is a lot of experience from international disaster work that may also be relevant for psychosocial work in Norway. This is not least the need to develop a comprehensive policy to protect the somatic and mental health of refugees and asylum seekers. The World Health Organisation underlines the need for guidelines to prevent fragmentation, inefficient, expensive and inaccessible, and often involves a variety of sectors and services, such as educational institutions, social services and health services. There are several models and guidelines for international work on mental health in disasters. Now I want to make it clear that we are not in a disaster here to land, but in a difficult situation. I think that's a description that we can agree on. It is recommended that reception staff, permanent staff, health centres, school health services, refugee contacts, housing consultants and other relevant actors cooperate to ensure the proper health care of this patient group. Visitors on reception must be consulted with the health care sister and doctor, and fixed hours should be provided regardless of whether the patient concerned has a D number or birth number. We have a steady supply of good health services for all in Norway, but we can assume that these standards established for health services, both for those coming here and for the rest of the population, can be challenged in this extraordinary situation. We can assume that, and so we should rust up. I will in no way condemn the government or the mobilization of health authorities so far, but acknowledge very much of what is going on. The Health Directorate has, among other things: sent letters to all the country's county councillors with advice and guidance in this exceptional situation, and the mobilisation in the municipalities and among volunteering has been and is great. In such a difficult situation as many municipalities are now in, a new pre-transit phase and a slightly longer waiting period between transit and regular reception are almost achieved. Here, too, the Health Directorate has made some recommendations to the municipalities that are now receiving a large number of refugees and asylum seekers. Municipalities are recommended to set up multi-disciplinary refugee health teams with the necessary skills, such as doctors, nurses, psychologists, health-seekers and, where appropriate, persons with social and multi-cultural competences. In this context, community psychologists should also be actively used to guide and identify more trauma-related conditions. This is very good, and it sounds nice and proper, so the thumbs up for it. The challenge is that some municipalities, perhaps especially in the districts, already have challenges in recruiting enough and proper competences for healthcare in a so-called normal situation, if I can use that expression. I visited the municipality of Grong on Monday in my home state, Nord-Trøndelag. It's a small municipality with well under 3,000 inhabitants, which accepts a large number of refugees. They have received regularly, they have had it for many years, and they have built up their competence over the years. They have 170 reception places, in addition to settling 27 refugees in 2016 and 2017. Over 10 pst. the municipal budget is linked to the activities and responsibilities of refugees in reception and those of the municipalities. It is a high number and shows an extensive effort by a small community. Their responses to the health challenges were relatively simple: More health care providers to lowthreshold services in order to relieve them. In other municipalities, this can be different, depending on the activity you have in your municipality, whether it is reception, transit reception or regular residence. In Grong they also believed that it would be reasonable if the driver of the reception also contributed more to paying bills for the health service. We have recorded that the Prime Minister has taken the word ‘crisis’ in his mouth, but that established preparedness procedures are not in place. While this interpellation is being dealt with in the Chamber, the parliamentary leaders will have to negotiate the remaining elements of the concluded asylum agreement. There, health services in municipalities and the other responsibilities of municipalities will be an important topic directly related to the financial frameworks laid down for municipalities in 2016 and which are proposed for 2017. Of course, it is difficult to estimate the need for health care for all those who now come to our country on the run from war, and with the hope of staying. But that there are health costs and, in part, also, in relation to the number that is now coming, I would say that it is quite clear, primarily in the municipalities, which are responsible for ensuring equivalent health services for the whole population, including refugees and asylum seekers, but also in hospitals, for those who need health care that is more specialised. In addition to economic frameworks, we need to make the job smart, efficient and in the interests of optimum integration. We also have to think about how we give the health care. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is this: How does the Council of State view this challenge for healthcare, and what does the government do to ensure health care preparedness in this exceptional situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e842	The refugee crisis marks Norway and Europe. The situation is exceptional with an influx of asylum seekers that we have never experienced in this country. Capacity in many host countries is on the verge. We also note the capacity challenges in Norway. Nevertheless, I want to praise many municipalities as on short notice, and unfortunately also without notice, have accepted many refugees and offered services despite the fact that the resources have not been adapted to population growth. It is estimated that between 30 000 and 40 000 asylum seekers will arrive in Norway in 2015. By the end of October there had been 21,946 asylum seekers, only in October there were 8,666. During the same period in 2014, there were 9,827 asylum seekers. That's 12 119 more than at the same time last year. In particular, there has been a high arrival over Storskog in eastern Finland in the autumn. As of 30 November 2015, more than 5 000 asylum seekers came across Storskog. Last week, 968 asylum seekers came from Syria and Afghanistan. It's a halve compared to the previous weeks. The decline is mainly due to the fact that the arrival over Storskog has almost stopped completely, but also the arrival in the south has fallen. The Government is concerned that all asylum seekers coming to Norway are well received. In the situation we're in now, all of our welfare services are being tested. As the representative of Kjerkol says, asylum seekers are entitled to health and care services in the same way as the general public. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for health and care services for asylum seekers. Where necessary, the municipality shall refer to the specialist health service. Municipalities and specialist health services work well to increase the capacity of the system and to facilitate the new situation. For example, the municipality of Oslo, in cooperation with UDI and Oslo University Hospital, is ready to change quickly. Similarly, at short notice, the council has staffed the health and care services to meet the needs that arise when the municipality was asked to establish a new centre of arrival for the East. As of today, we have the biggest challenges in the north, where the pressure on the arrival centre has been and is great. It seems that the manning of both health and other institutions has not been dimensioned to tackle the large refugee flow. I'll come back to this. It is important to stress, as the representative also points out, that the increased presence of asylum seekers and refugees in Norway has led to more tasks in all parts of society, including health services. It is provided that refugees and asylum seekers are to be examined for tuberculosis within 14 days of entry. During the period this survey has not taken place on arrival, such practice should be, but the persons concerned have been caught in retrospect and screened. The main challenge has been to obtain individuals later in order to disseminate the results of the tests. It is working to improve logistics in this area. Where reception has been established, municipalities have mobilised resources at short notice and helped to identify people who have been screened and who need treatment. As a rule, asylum seekers are in good health. It's important to be aware of. It is the freshest and most resourceful people who have the resources to travel and seek protection in other countries. We also see that those who have come to the country in the last three months, seen as a group, have easier to cope with moderate health problems. Very few have needed specialist health services. In the case of children, young people and adults, more need acute dental treatment. Many children and young people in their home country have never been to a dentist before. Those who have contacted the Health Office at the Foreign Office of the Police Department have had to a large extent simple conditions that do not require a doctor or any other type of treatment. However, many have experienced traumas that can be overcome by mental health challenges over time if this is not well-prevented. It is therefore important to facilitate meaningful employment, housing, social life and good integration precisely in order to prevent mental health disorders. The ministry follows this situation very closely. There is a daily situation reporting between several actors and there are weekly meetings with the Health Directorate to provide an overview of the situation. This provides a basis for assessing the need for national action in the field of health care. The Ministry of Health and Welfare cooperates closely with other ministries on the management of the situation. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Ministry of Labour. There is close cooperation at the directorate level, and the Health Directorate has its own liaison in the UDI. The Ministry has given the Directorate of Health responsibility for coordinating work on increased asylum arrivals under the same mechanisms used in a crisis. Due to the special challenges in the north, the Health Directorate, in consultation with the County of Finnmark, has moved its UDI-liaison to the Churches on 24 November to be the Liaison of the County of Finnland assisting UDI locally. From the same date, the Swedish Institute of Public Health has given two professionals with infectious competence to the municipality of Sør-Varanger. Members of the County/female and members of staff of the Directorate-General for Health and the Institute for Public Health attend meetings in Finnmark. The Health Directorate has now set up a pool of voluntary health professionals to assist municipalities with capacity problems in healthcare. Around 600 people have signed up to this pool. This says something about the amazing enthusiasm and spirit of the people in this matter. The County of Finnmark, with all its municipalities, explains their needs for additional health professionals in order to manage asylum seekers in Finnmark. For the time being, additional personnel needs in the specialist health service have been addressed in health regions, to some extent as a cooperation between regional health establishments. Today, there is no electronic solution that connects UFA numbers and other person-identifiable systems. The Health Directorate has started work on assessing the introduction of a health card to ensure a good flow of health information at individual level. The idea is that each asylum seeker carries such a health card. In view of the winter months, it is important to be prepared for housing and welfare services. Therefore, the government has been aware of strengthening health preparedness. On that basis, I have asked the health region to plan the crew for Christmas based on this. As a result of the increase in the number of asylum seekers, the Council of State decided on 18 September to grant additional funding for 2015 of 5 million. to the five resource centres for violence and traumatic stress. The funds shall be used to enhance the professional competence of local and specialist health professionals working with asylum seekers, in particular children and young people. We also receive these funds in 2016. It has also been proposed to strengthen the allocations to municipalities with asylum receptions justified by the need of these municipalities to build healthcare. In addition, fresh funds have been proposed for the purchase of vaccines and vaccination. We are facing a major societal challenge. In such a situation, the various actors must play together well. If we do this in a good way, we have also laid an important and good foundation for integration and for asylum seekers coming to Norway to have good health in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e876	I would like to thank the Council of State for the full answer he gives, and for the assurance that the situation is being followed closely. I applauded myself because I delivered the interpellation, because this is knowledge that I believe the Storting feels very strongly about having. There is a wide range of devices in place, and it sounds as if there is a good plan to deal with day-to-day challenges from the department as well. And then, of course, I will also refer to the formidable effort that has been put so far in the municipalities and not least from volunteering. Like the Council of State, I have the impression that action is being taken and directed towards those in the first line. Examples of creativity and solution focus from healthcare professionals come from all over the country. In Health Mid-Norway, as I know best, they have set up an ambulance team to assist municipalities in providing a better service related to mental health. Elsewhere, radiographs are ambulating out of the hospital to do screening and X-rays on the DMS and in other locations. Instead of transporting asylum seekers to and from hospitals, professionals come out where possible. Things are made more effective and organised according to the situation. That's good and necessary. Our health service will also learn a lot at this time we are in, skills that can be used in other parts of the service and contribute to conversion and renewal. The situation will require increased efforts to be made in the future, in particular with regard to the health services in municipalities, including to strengthen cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. And one needs to strengthen the professional work related to the trauma of refugees and asylum seekers, where perhaps the more specialised competence is somewhat limited. So the government said a little bit about the disease panorama, or what it looks like for those who are coming. Just as the Council of State says, it's partly healthy, rising that comes. Here, it is important to work closely together in such a way as to be able to open up those who are just going to continue their lives in a place other than those they travelled from, and to help those who need the necessary health care, while at the same time having a good preparedness and good system for what is fundamentally linked to the preparedness for infection. I thank you so much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e889	The representative Kjerkol should not pat himself on the shoulder, for that is what I would like to do. It was very important to get this interpellation now and get this opportunity to explain the work done. The Minister of Justice, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Minister of Children and Gender Equality and I also had my own press release this week to go through the whole of the efforts that have been made in the last few months in this field. It's got a little bit of attention that some of the people who come here have tuberculosis. I just want to stress that until now there are about 50 people who have been diagnosed. There's no particular increase in relation to what's common. It is between 2 and 300 a year in Norway that gets that diagnosis, and they get good treatment. It is only when one has contracted the disease that one can infect others, but with the healthcare we have in Norway, this does not represent any risk of infection in the population as such. There is a discussion about the need for screening of tuberculosis by everyone who comes. The World Health Organisation’s European Office does not recommend screening people coming from countries with as low a proportion as tuberculosis as for example. Syria. This will vary slightly between the different groups. I would also like to say that we have carried out a survey of the needs of municipalities for more health professionals in connection with the pool that is established. There are 40 municipalities in 13 counties that have reported needs. 20 of the municipalities have notified an immediate need, and 20 of the municipalities have notified if necessary in the long term. It is also important for the representative to mention what he said: here we see that our healthcare has a lot of resources to play on. But they're also good at cooperating across levels when there's a need for it. You have to be aware that in such a situation, it could go beyond other problems. I am not concerned about the capacity of healthcare, but we need to be aware that when capacity has to be used for this, there are other tasks that are not being solved. That's something we've notified you about in the additional number.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e902	I would also like to thank you for having this theme up here today. I think it's cross-political consensus, understanding and not least humility with regard to the challenges we're now facing as a nation. I'm really impressed by the mobilization we're looking at and the cooperation between municipalities, and not least between municipalities and specialist health services. But there are some areas I want to point to. I know it's doing a lot of good in relation to infection prevention measures, but there may be some capacity challenges for smaller municipalities that receive large receptions, and also in larger municipalities. There may also be challenges in relation to competences in smaller places. What about tuberculosis is mentioned, but is there any other area you should be for, not least with regard to antibiotic resistance, when we get such a little transparent image of people with different health backgrounds into us? The second theme, which I think is incredibly complicated, is mental health. We know that although most people have relatively good health, some people come here who have been traumatized and need psychosocial follow-up. It's challenging to be able to identify those who need it, both in terms of language, culture and their closeness. We all remember the Ardal killings, with an asylum seeker who had been rejected, and of course we don't want to get up in the same situation. It is very good that the government has taken the initiative to strengthen the resource centres for violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention, but I think it is important that we continue to follow up the municipalities and not least the reception centres to see what measures are needed. In this room, we have previously also discussed the Centers for Crisis Psychology, which is one of the leading specialists in crises both in Norway and abroad – they are still going astray in the bureaucracy to receive support. But we need to use the skills we have to support municipalities in the best possible way in the situation we're in. The councils were also concerned with dental health, and county councils have an obligation under the dental law to assist in investigations. We know that the asylum recipients are located a little different around the country, and I have been contacted by politicians who have asked if there are opportunities to cover some of the additional expenses it involves. They have received no so far from both the IMFI, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. If the Council of State has the opportunity to comment on it, it's also good. We also believe that we must be prepared that very unfortunately very many will be living relatively long in reception. The uncertainty and availability it entails will have a significant impact on the health of individuals, so action in relation to activity we think can be preventive in terms of the health of many of those who unfortunately have to stay for a long time at the reception. The working party also believes it is important that we look especially at children who come here, either alone or together with family. Staying on asylum reception temporarily believes we have extra consequences for that particular target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e915	Norway is experiencing a great instigation of people seeking protection. In a situation of high asylum arrivals over time, it is likely that several municipalities may need assistance to provide the necessary health services to asylum seekers and refugees. Although most municipalities are able to deal with the exceptional asylum situation, some municipalities have reported capacity challenges. As the Minister of Health and Health was involved in his speech, the government and he asked the Health Directorate to organise a pool of available personnel to help municipalities in the face of pressure. The Health Directorate has been entrusted with the task of assessing local authorities’ capacity and organising a pool of voluntary health professionals that can be provided by municipalities for shorter or longer periods to address capacity challenges. This will contribute to the more acute need for assistance that arises when asylum policies are now higher than ever before. Many asylum seekers who come to Norway are traumatized after war or persecution in their own countries. The increase in the number of refugees to Europe and Norway could also result in a pressure on health services for people with mental or mental disorders. Many of those who come to Norway today are single minor asylum seekers. Of those who are given rest periods, there may be others who will need help from the municipality to deal with their mental health, mental distress or suffering. Then it is important that the municipality has the competence to handle people who have experienced selected or traumatic stress. The government has followed up this challenge by allowing the additional number of $5 million. kr to the five resource centres for selected and traumatic stress. Furthermore, it is gratifying that these funds were passed on in the draft budget for 2016. In addition, it has been proposed to strengthen the rights of municipalities with asylum recipients, which are the basis of these municipalities’ need to build up health services. However, we must not forget that many asylum seekers who have come to Norway have good health. As the minister pointed out, very few people will need specialist health services. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for these health and care services for asylum seekers. The greatest pressure will thus come to the municipal health and care services. I have already mentioned some of the measures taken by the government to meet the need for increased health services in the short term, but equally important are the measures taken by the government to improve the community health and care services, regardless of the exceptional situation we are currently facing. Through the primary health message, the government has highlighted the need for more holistic services, greater user involvement, increased skills and strengthened leadership. The government presents concrete measures to ensure a robust and competent professional environment capable of dealing with multiple patients and users, many with complex disorders. In addition, the government’s commitment to the prevention services in mental health will be important in meeting the pressure that the increase in the influx of asylum will lead to on municipal health services. The government's commitment to health centres and school health services, and their added support for the recruitment of community psychologists, will be an important contribution to providing a good health supply to asylum seekers who are given leave of residence in Norway. Adding to municipalities, health services and receiving them makes a great effort every day to keep the people who are coming well. I have to say that I am impressed by the way in which current agencies, health services, private individuals, businesses and volunteers handle the challenges our country faces, how many communities have turned around in a short time, have been able to cope with a situation that hardly anyone had seen happening. I want to finish my post by commending health professionals and others in the first line service who every day are on the verge of dealing with this demanding situation in our country now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e930	I also want to put myself in the line of those who boast both of the interpellation and of the Minister's good answers. This is well lit, and it's given information that I think Stortinget needs, but I think the Norwegian people also need to understand the information that is now given. Good information creates security, and creates security for everyone. Many of our new countrymen have had many experiences in their luggage, based on the situation they have been in. They have been in war, fled from war, lost family, seen things that others can only imagine. Many of us know that if we're going to survive in such a situation, it's the body that remembers, more than crazy. We're just going to do that to survive. Once we have gone and carried on that backpack for a long time, the body will gradually remember more, which allows us to occasionally get some reactions and behavior that suits little with the situation you're in. The reality is that the body remembers something completely different, what's in that life and the experience they've had in the country they came from. In order to prevent such heavy mental disorders that can result from such major traumas, it is important that we manage to maintain mental health. And in order to take care of mental health, it is also important to be able to express yourself. These new countrymen also come without language. Then I'm glad that we have a mental health system that can use both speech and other ways of expressing itself, which allows us to get the experiences and get to work with them, so that there won't be a situation that will lead to unwanted events in the long term because you can't deal with the present situation. It is important for the Christian People's Party that good opportunities are created for meeting places, and that we are able to care for the volunteers who want to contribute, just to meet the whole human being, and most of all those who have traumatic experiences with them. Then it's important to be able to speak, too, that they can learn the Norwegian language so that they can express what is really at the root of their challenge. So I think the biggest challenge in the future might not be on the physical side, to screen a lot of patients. The biggest challenge will be to meet the cultural and mental challenge faced by very many of our new countrymen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e945	Thank you to the interpellant who took up an important matter. The Health and Welfare Committee makes clear that the Storting needs this debate. So do I. What is my criticism, or something I'm surprised about, is that the government of the supplementary proposition did not provide this information and this statement on how to ensure the health of the new people who come to Norway to seek asylum. This house is established around 110 new emergency accommodation places for asylum seekers, most have between 100 and 200 beds. All in all, there are about 12,500 asylum seekers who now live in such places. There are as many inhabitants as in a relatively large Norwegian municipality. In addition, we have 18 000 asylum seekers living in ordinary asylum recipients. Even if one can say that these do not have a special disease risk because the healthiest ones are coming, it is clear that this will burden the health services in Norway, both the municipal health services and hospitals. They also have a little more in their luggage. I agree that this with infectious diseases is manageable, it's important that you don't mess up, and that there are rules for it. But I was very surprised that there was an additional proposition when it came to hospitals, which did not take the height of the situation we were in. On the contrary, a change in the hospital budget was presented which increases the efficiency requirement, so that there is an even more demanding financial situation for hospitals. In addition, through the budget agreement, there was an additional requirement to improve hospital efficiency – 130 million. kr. The additional proposal states that this tightening of hospital operations in order to finance other measures in relation to the asylum situation could lead to more time-limits and delays in investment. There's no height here because one has got more to the country that needs health care, and that we should have actually strengthened the hospital budget, not reduced it. There were funds for the tuberculosis screening, nothing else. When it comes to the municipalities, the Central Party also believes that one has not taken the height of the burden on municipal health and care services for new people who come and seek asylum, both for health stations, for permanent jobs, and so on. We have prioritised more resources for this in our budget. I am also surprised that the action with a pool of voluntary and accessible health professionals to be created by the Health Directorate was also not informed about or signaled in the supplementaryproposition. We have got this a little bit broken and divided, and now we get the information I think the government should have come to Stortinget before – collect. I would like to ask a little more about this pool of voluntary health professionals. Many people have reported their interest, and of course it is good. They should be used to help a municipality for a period of time. But is it such that this work is to be done entirely without remuneration? Is this to be done by people who work for free? Isn't the situation such that one should also admit that this will actually cost the municipalities money? Does it require more health professionals, is it nice and well done, but it is not just this that is supposed to fund it increase the need for health services in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e962	First of all, thank you very much to the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol for raising this interpellation. It's very important and also timely. I would also like to join in thanking the Minister of Health for a good presentation. The Norwegian health system is well organised and has a large capacity. It's enough to remember July 22nd and how the Norwegian health service dealt with that situation. We later saw that the follow-up in the municipalities was different. There is also a situation we see in the context of the migration influx now, that the municipalities are being burdened differently. There are some small municipalities, including: with high-mountain hotels, which have received a high proportion for acute settlement. Clearly, it will burden them. Whether it becomes both in the short and long term is early to say, but some will get a greater load. We also see that a former teacher's school in Bergen, a large building mass relatively in the middle of a big city. It says something about the big cities taking their responsibility. There is also greater capacity for integration, and there is good access for health professionals. As I said, the Norwegian health sector is well organised and has great capacity. It is also well rigged to carry out research and development, innovation and innovation. I myself have been concerned with just the possibilities this gives, and have asked the Minister of Health a written question about inviting more private actors. We see that many of those who come have a cell phone, such as a cell phone. can carry health information. Instead, this information is actually carried by mail in some cases today. I am also familiar with the fact that we have a health care system that, in part, still uses faxes. So we have some log capabilities here that we can also transfer to our regular service. I saw a look up from NRK Østfold on the web last week, where a local head of emergency department at the Council was concerned that it would take too long to provide health information. She was unsure if the health information actually came out. In this context, the Health Directorate was also interviewed, because a person wants a common personal identification number for all bodies in contact with asylum seekers. Obviously, it will simplify the flow of information. In addition, there was a desire for electronic communications, where the Health Directorate indicates that it will take several years to get in place. This says something about a health sector that is a bit fragmented and that has applied different technologies, and where a far from being on the same digital platforms. There's a job to do. After the written question to the Minister of Health, I have been contacted by a surprising number of actors – both private and public – who say they have something to contribute. One example is a digital interpretation service that is authorised. Psychiatric health has also been mentioned here. It shows that precisely in interpretation, there may be challenges, and all the smart solutions where you can make better use of your capacity are very welcome. Speaking of mental health, we have a good tradition of working with DPS and mobile teams. It's also a solution that I think we should use to a greater extent. The counties can be a co-player here – in addition to the UDI, the IMDI and others – to look at regional capacity and benefits for those who, for a period of time, will suffer a slightly greater burden than the local health sector is rigged for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e977	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very important question. I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation that came, but I think I agree with the representative of the Central Party who is a little surprised that we have not received this information before. There has been an incomprehensible insubstantial insubstantial intrusion from the government in dealing with what everyone had to see coming. Then we are pleased that both the health service and the voluntary sector – which is ‘girled in’ to alleviate distress and prevent death – have reacted very quickly and ethically in high esteem and have made this work as well as it has done. I'm glad. I am also very pleased with many of the measures that the Council of State now mentions, because they are important and correct. It is very important to have an interaction now between the community health service, the specialist health service and those to receive refugees. Therefore, it is also important that we now have more municipal receptions – not so many private and not such large receptions, but small, decentralised receptions – so that we can draw on the knowledge and competence that are already in the municipalities. It encourages UDI, there are a lot of municipalities that do, and the government should work hard for that. It's incredibly important that you dare to think new and put in place a new settlement arrangement, because it's something that really makes people sick, is to sit and stare in the wall for years without having anything to do. Another negative effect that I had at least hoped the government would have noticed, is that there is no doubt that we teach people to lie on the couch, stare at the TV and accept social security. At least that's something you haven't learned in the countries you come from. We have to put an end to this because it also makes people seriously mentally ill – people who – most of them – have initially experienced very serious traumas. The strength of this in our supplementary proposition was good, but I think we have to look further at this – and perhaps especially at the children. I'm especially concerned about the kids. Some come with their parents – that’s serious enough – but many come alone. They've experienced things that aren't even to think about. Souls I met one of these guys not many weeks ago. He had been involved in burying his own family who had been shot in fillets. Then I too get quite horrified when both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Children say that these young people have less challenges than the young people we have in the field of child protection, and that they therefore need fewer adults to take care of themselves. These kids I think I need more adults. They need a lot of adults to talk to, to cry at, to be angry -- to feel a certain belonging to. They need adults who can take care of them when the criminals – who are incredibly good at integrating – look at them and catch them up. This is young people who are so vulnerable that it's almost not to think about. They need adults who can hang them in, and they need a ‘fuck in life’. I hope that we can now bring up grant schemes for example. Red Cross, so that they can extend their refugee guidance scheme to a grandpa scheme, for these boys – mainly boys – need adult men who can guide them into a human role in Norway and be a grandfather in life. Because this can go very wrong for many of them, and it can also damage integration very much. The dreams that many of these children have with them are bad enough. Some of them have even experienced fragmentation when they come to Norway. You found an eight-year-old sitting alone on Tøenen after the big brother had been sent to another place. There are things that happen here that are so serious that we know that it could have serious health consequences. So here we have very big challenges in front of us. What makes me optimistic is that I see that the vast majority of municipalities – not everyone, but the vast majority – put themselves in the harness and do the best they can. The human health system really does as much as they can. They're going to have a lot of praise. The voluntary sector must also have high praise. I hope we can get back to this and get ongoing information from the Minister of Health about the work going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e997	The flow of refugees and asylum causes small and large municipalities to have a violent population growth in a short time. Fortunately, there is no lack of will in municipalities to achieve this, but new challenges are emerging, including in the area of health. There is little doubt that the smallest municipalities that have not had asylum receptions before do not have a health service that is well-equipped to do this in a good enough way. In addition, they are not used to having so many inhabitants with a greater proportion of trauma than the rest of the population. New permanent doctors, health sisters, psychiatric nurses and other health professionals must therefore be in place around the municipalities. One challenge that also needs to be mentioned is that many asylum seekers are now placed around municipalities with large distances from hospitals. In Seatesdal, East Agder, a major challenge is that asylum seekers in need of acute mental health care need to be driven in long-range ambulances in order to obtain help. In small municipalities, emergency preparedness is already limited, and this is therefore a major challenge for the ambulance service. In addition to weakening the preparedness of municipalities because ambulances are more used for this type of mission, asylum seekers are also not offered a good and worthwhile offer. I hope, like many others here today, that the government will continue to strengthen cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipalities further in the future. More cooperation needs to be established quickly to ensure that the competences of the specialist healthcare service benefit municipalities even more. The specialist health service must also be on the supply side even more than it is at present and provide outpatient services to the smallest municipalities far from hospitals. Where the municipalities do not apply on their own, incentives should be introduced to establish a multidisciplinary intercommunal offer. Like the representative Karin Andersen, I am also concerned about the kids. In dealing with asylum seekers with trauma, it is important to remember those who are parents, and it is important to remember their children. It's easy to think about just the person who's sick, but it's so important to prevent their challenges from going on in inheritance. The focus must therefore be on talking to young people to ensure that their perspective is heard and that they are well cared for. As the Minister of Health himself said, it is important to ensure that they also have good health in the future. Both young people who have experienced trauma themselves and those who are related must be at the forefront of healthcare. The situation and health challenges are too difficult for Norwegian municipalities to deal with alone. They need help, and they need control. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will give priority to the work pointed out by the inter-pellant. I am pleased that there is a work going on, and I hope that more measures will be put in place quickly. After all, what we are doing today will have major consequences in the future, both for individuals and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1012	Thank you to Ingvild Kjerkol, the representative of the Workers' Party who has addressed this important interpellation. I think the posts I've heard have been very good and constructive. It is said that Norway is in crisis. I think those who are in crisis are the refugees. Norway is not in crisis, but we have an exceptional situation in many institutions. The rapporteurs and the local population express concern, not necessarily for asylum seekers, but for the offers to be made by the municipality or how it is to be implemented. The acute phase is important. It is also essential that the next phase be optimised that the emergency phase be good. I believe there are two main tasks that need to be put in place in the emergency phase. The first is humanitarian aid and clarification of needs. Humanitarian aid started at the time of the arrival of the refugees and made an invaluable effort, which actually carried Norway through the entire reception process for the first few weeks. Then there is clarification of needs – which are also in the emergency phase. The second measure is to mitigate the national and local level of conflict. These two things are related, because we do not succeed in one, nor do we succeed in the other. It has been pointed out that the Security Council is an important body that should be set in motion, and that is something I fully support. It was also pointed out by the representative of the Left to the need for regional and flexible use of health professionals, and I think that this is important. Both the specialist and local auxiliary services should be flexible and should leave. We cannot have an organisation where asylum seekers who need always have to go to the hospital. The disease risk has been well explained by the Minister of Health, and it is quite right that not everyone is sick, and not everyone needs help, but there are some experiences we need to address. One is what the representative, Mr Vennesland, had to deal with in relation to simple issues related to, for example: the transport of the acutely ill and the person liable to pay the excess. According to the Regulation for patient travel, the journey is to be paid before the shipment takes place. Then the ambulance service is in a dilemma: Who is going to pay the bill, and how is it to be solved? That's what I think is such practical solutions that are really just like ventilation under the skis, and it needs to be cleaned up by a few. The second is, as many have been involved, crisis reactions. They may be obvious and need to be handled and clarified, but they may also not be obvious, one may have a taus crisis reaction. And then I'll start with the group that I think should get extra attention, and that's women. Several have been involved in the child's perspective, and I think that is also good. Women in crisis and refugees have received attention in many international forums. A UN report was launched yesterday, and the U.N. was present. Security resolutions are available on obligations to combat sexual violence in conflicts. Some of those who have experienced sexual violence in these conflict areas have now come to Norway. Therefore, humanitarian aid and aid measures, as we say, must be implemented in relation to women abroad, must also be valid in Norway. I believe it is important that the government takes an initiative to cooperate with the centres of violence and trauma, which of course have competence in this, and also with the crisis centres and SMSO organisations. Challenges for refugee children have been mentioned. Stavanger University Hospital Outpatient Hospital for Traumatised Refugees should be included in the assessment of best practice. My summary points are: The level of trauma of women and children must be clarified. Is the Minister able to give some signals as to whether he wants to take action in this respect, including: invite knowledge environments and non-governmental organisations having this special competence? Flexible use of specialist healthcare also needs to be clarified, so that it comes out, and we get a regional use of the total services. The last thing is to clear up unexplained financing relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1040	I would also like to thank you for a very good and constructive debate that has highlighted many different elements of the challenge we face as a nation. I also think that we need this agreed approach to do this, so I'm going to hold on to the good mood. I guess we'll get back to a little more recognizable political change, because it'll be tough priorities in the future. But both I and the Council of State have to hold on to the good mood as long as we can. If I'm going to sum up, I think what's going to be crucial is that you get this all together and coordinated, not fragmented and fragmentary. It is likely that the main efforts of the authorities will need to be directed towards this cross-sectoral effort. Now we know that there will be a significant number of lone minors, and there will be the need for coordinated and concerted efforts. Most importantly, it may be that you go on with what has been a slightly ongoing variable, that the number of asylum seekers has fluctuated a lot. There will be a more constant size in the continuation. In this context, we need to give priority to both the health and care budget – which is the responsibility of the committee for which I sit – and to many of the other instruments. As there was perhaps little emphasis in the debate, I would like to stress this by ensuring good and accessible personnel. Having good interpretation services is important to look at, because it's the gateway to doing the first screening of who these people are, and how they're going to live on their lives. It is important to get a good interpretation service, because those who come now do not have language skills in the extent to which we are used to, and Norwegian skills are non-existent. I want to sum up this. It's been a pleasant debate, and then it's getting tougher every now and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1049	I would also like to thank you for a good discussion, which is marked by a common recognition of the challenges we face and the seriousness of the situation. I am also very pleased with the unison positive reviews that the people who stand in this every single day get from the Storting. I guess that's deserved, there's a lot of people here that are far beyond what we could expect, for example. the councillor, a relatively small municipality that suddenly faces a very big challenge that one has to solve. So there's going to be a fantastic effort. Then we also have to assume that when we are in such a situation, it will also happen wrong. There will be things that will be done wrong, there will be things that we would like to have been done differently, there will be municipalities that will get short time to turn around, just because the alternative is not to have the head of those who are coming, for example. So the fact that there's a difficult situation, also makes one sometimes have to make some difficult choices, and where the ideal won't be the option. It is also something that we, both political authorities and senior leaders, must respect. So many people have had attention to the health challenges ahead, and especially to mental health. Of course, it will be about giving good help, but it is also about how we accept those who are coming, and what offers are to be given. The integration measures that are now also being discussed by the Storting will have a major impact on the experiences that you have had in life in the past, for example. a person will be in need of treatment or a master of life. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are now inviting a national conference on the health follow-up of asylum seekers, to be held on 16 December, and the Health Directorate has also invited health regions – they are at a meeting today. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute will also jointly invite voluntary organisations to an information meeting during December, just to discuss many of the issues and challenges raised by several of the representatives here. This with the ID number and following asylum seekers through the various parts also with regard to health information, I also included it in my own post, and several of the representatives have addressed this. There we have challenges related to the digital solutions, and manual procedures, which functioned in a normal situation, create a lot of challenges in an abnormal situation. Pending a new permanent solution, the tax rate will in a short time send staff to the reception points of both Storskog and Råde to contribute to an immediate registration in the People's Register, which provides access to the D-number of asylum seekers. It is a procedure which takes 20 to 30 days with an established system, but which can then be done immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1065	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1081	I'm promoting this interpellation because, like many others in a part of the country where sailboats were part of everyday life, I'm proud of the shot that Southland has, the full rigger "Southland". Sailing boats along the coast have been an important part of the life base and have given work and prosperity. Sailboats brought incomes and the world to the South, and not least they brought the South into the world. White sail was a term, but not without content. I am sure that is the case in all regions that have sailing cuts. Sverre Darkhagen has written several books on the emigration to America, and he has as the title of one of his lectures: «White sail, crowded between decks». Large parts of Norway's population fled from hunger and distress and sought a better life in the mid 1800s. It's not unlike the situation we're experiencing today. The difference is that we didn't have war. Many got their first experience with the white sails during this journey. Long before it conquered the Vikings the world at sea – by sail. So we can say that the sails represent hope – hope for food, income and also hope for a better life. But the back of the white sails is afraid. Death at sea was known, and along our coast there are many graves without coffins. The three major shots we have left from Norway's centuries of maritime history are three beautiful old shots: «Christian Radich», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and the full rigger «Southern Land». I would argue that the shots have been verbally treated in relation to others, rural, cultural memories over a long time, perhaps because the waterway is so little used by most of us today, perhaps because they are so few and live in cities that have other – perhaps more modern – challenges, perhaps because not enough think they are important enough, or perhaps because it costs money. It's not good to say, but they've got political attention before. The Ministry of Culture was asked to investigate the grievances in 2002, and a unanimous cultural committee at that time concluded that the ships are one of the most important cultural taxes we have in Norway. All bulkheads are protected and the full rigger ‘Southern’ has the highest degree of protection. It costs to maintain sheltered ships according to the protection requirements of the authorities. The founding fathers do a lot to secure the economy and make their own profits. All have income through activities in the market and agreements with the State, municipality and county council on operating grants. The history of culture is not just linked to the sight of the shots for full sail a fine summer day with sunrise breeze. The museum and cultural history elements are about protecting and passing on maritime craft traditions – splitting ropes, tails and lower sails, steering against wind and current. The work is about performing old maritime craft traditions in a living, seagoing museum. There is therefore a great deal of consensus that they have a well-deserved place in Norway’s cultural history. Training has been an important task for the shooters. Many boys who had difficulty in acquiring theory at school managed after a few weeks in a hammock under the deck. Hard work and demands and expectations to become part of the community made them get good life. They became sailors, and they got a social connection. In our time, The Tall Ships Races has become an unconditional success. Wherever the sailors come, it's a party and a sea of people. It can be taken into account for the recognition that our maritime history is brought to us in a modern form, but it must not undermine the responsibility we have as a nation to take care of these cultural taxes, so that they can be secured for future generations. The fuller «Southern Land» is the world's oldest fuller in active service. Our other two shooters have a long and longer story. I'd like to think that everyone is going to have the same amount of time in front of them as behind them, and that we can do it using wise political action. Because it's challenges. Funding is one of them — a funding that can ensure year-round operation and that these ships can actually sail. The protective requirements are one thing, certificates and competent crews another thing that affects the economy. If they are to fulfil their museum duties for the care of crafts and seafarers, they must be used year-round. Keeping and recruiting enough competent personnel and crews is another thing, and maintenance, which I've been through, is a third task and a challenge. I will commend the foundations for their systematic work of consolidating themselves. They cooperate well on common challenges and work constructively against other levels of government. That's good, and it's been necessary. In 2001, the Swords Committee was set up. They provided a report that addressed part of the same challenges as these shots today, and they pointed to some solutions. Some of these solutions in the market have been found to be problematic. That's why I think part of the main challenge is how to ensure that the public contributes enough economy so that these three great shots can perform their function as proud cultural carriers for Norway and contribute to bringing Norway into the world in a traditional and important way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1104	It is a matter of cultural policy which the representative Kari Henriksen addresses in this interview. The three grievances ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, ‘Sørlanden’ and ‘Christian Radich’ represent important Norwegian cultural heritage. There is no doubt that these sailing ships are unique maritime cultural memories both on a Norwegian and international scale. The three grievances are not least good intermediaries of the rich Norwegian maritime traditions. By being active sailing cultural memories, gossipers are also good ambassadors for Norway. The grievances manage and continue important maritime competences, maritime knowledge and unique craft traditions. This competence is ensured through activities on ships, in particular the tokens arranged for different groups of sailors. The atrocists each have their own history dating back to the early 1900s and mid-war. All three ships were built as sailing school ships, but were used at different times for other purposes. The sailing ships were subjected to severe wear and damage during the war. This resulted in major repair needs for the ships in the post-war years. However, only minor repairs were carried out on the ships during the first decades after the war. It was not until the second half of the 1970s that major repair and maintenance work was started on the bulkheads. For several decades, the State has provided various forms of grants to the three grievances. But in the last decade, the grievances have received substantial fixed contributions from the state to meet their operational and maintenance needs. This has contributed greatly to providing ships with a lift in terms of the maintenance and conservation of the ships for the time being. In 2002, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, a selection was set up to carry out an independent investigation aimed at identifying a realistic operational and maintenance structure that could provide foundations for the future operation and maintenance of the gangsters. The arbitration panel delivered its nomination on 1 August 2002. The report concluded that it had to be worked for all year round operations for all the shots. In addition, the State had to assume financial responsibility for a significant part of the necessary exceptional maintenance and establish long-term support for such work. The Arbitration Committee concluded that, in addition to the ordinary State grant for operation and maintenance, it was necessary to grant 38,6 million. kr for exceptional upgrading of the three sail bulkheads. Government appropriations for the grievances may be divided into two categories: exceptional means of maintenance and permanent operating grants. First, a little about the history of the exceptional means of maintenance: in the period 2003–08, a total of 41.4 million were allocated to the country. kr for exceptional maintenance of the three grievances. 14.5 million. DKK of this was granted over the State budget, while the remaining 26.9 million. kr was granted in the form of musical instruments. This means that the State fully complied with its expected contribution to the upgrading plan for the sailing ships, as outlined by the Sverrigger Committee in 2002. In addition, from 2009 onwards, a separate fixed grant of the State budget with provision for exceptional maintenance of the grievances was established. This provision doubled between 2009 and 2013. In total, the maintenance funds for the period 2009-2013 amounted to 14,1 million. kr. From 2014, the maintenance funds were added to the ordinary grant to the three complainants. In the case of annual fixed operating grants to the grievances, since 2002, when the grievances report was submitted, the State has now granted a total of 189.4 million. kr to the three sail shooters. In the 2014 budget, a real increase was also added to the grievances. In summary, since 2002, the State has granted substantial funds to the three grievances. The State has taken a significant responsibility for these important cultural memories. The funds were granted in the form of exceptional means of maintenance, fixed provision for maintenance and ordinary operating grants. From 2002 to 2015, a total of 245 million were granted. kr from the State for the maintenance and operation of the swearers. In the 2015 government budget, the appropriations for the grievances were moved from cape. 328, entry 78 for the Norwegian Typing surplus. The Ministry of Culture's budget for 2015 states that this does not alter the management of the grants. This budgetary change shall not result in less favourable treatment for these liquid cultural memories – their annual budgetary application will be treated in the same way as for all other beneficiaries of permanent grants from the Ministry of Culture. The state is still the main public contributor to the grievances. Municipalities and municipalities have made less contributions to the necessary grants. However, from the standpoint of the State, it has been argued that the respective municipalities and county councils should also have co-responsibility. It is obvious that the swearers represent a very special value for the cities where the respective shots have their home port. Although regional grants to sailing ships have in total accounted for a small proportion of the total public funds to the grievances, there have been significant differences in the extent of participation from the respective regions. Both the municipality of Kristiansand and the municipality of West Agder have granted substantive grants to the «Southern Land». ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ and ‘Christian Radich’ have not obtained an equivalent contribution. Based on a comment from the Family and Culture Committee in the 2014 budget setting, the Ministry has addressed the issue of increased local/regional grants to ‘Christian Radich’ and ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, respectively, with the Municipality of Oslo, Bergen and Hordaland County. In 2013, the regional grants for the three shots amounted to approximately 3.1 million. kr or 14,5 pst. of total government grants. In 2015, the corresponding figure is 8.7 million. kr or 28 pst. of the total amount of government grants. Both for the «Southern» and for the «Statsraad Lehmkuhl», the regional contribution is now 30 pst. of total government operating grants, whereas ‘Christian Radich’ has a regional grant share of 24 pst. Government funds to the grievances have contributed significantly to the fact that today the three ships are sailing cultural memories. By date, all three shots appear in good condition, but in the years ahead, new maintenance and upgrade needs will undoubtedly be identified for which a solution needs to be found. These are issues that will be adequately addressed when the situation arises. Norway has the power to take care of three insurgents in an operational condition. The ambition must be that way we're going to have it in the decades ahead of us. It is the responsibility of the respective foundations of ownership, the state and the regions involved to help us maintain these beautiful cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1150	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and comprehensive response. It is absolutely right that money has been allocated to these shots over a long period of time, and that one has taken public responsibility for them. The question you have to ask is whether that responsibility is enough, and whether it is predictable enough for the foundations to run these shots. If one takes the appropriations mentioned by the Council of State itself in the period 2002-2015 of 245 million. NOK, after a quick head count it will be approx. Eighteen million. kr per year, and if one divides it by three again, it becomes approx. Six million. kr per shot. I think if you're going to have these shots to go on water and have maintenance, you could have 6 million. kr, at least for some periods during which they may need additional maintenance in accordance with the protection requirements, may not be sufficient. But I think it is reassuring to hear that the Council of State says it is important that the public should be a central contributor in the future, and also says, as I understood from the Council of State, that they will find solutions to it. I therefore ask that the Council of State elaborate on this that she will find solutions when such situations arise. Here there are clear requirements for maintenance according to the level of protection, so basically we know that the maintenance of these bulkheads is expensive, and there are regular and uneven intervals. So if the Council of State could say anything about how she thinks when such extraordinary situations arise: does the Council of State think that there should be an extra pot for such extraordinary situations? This is what has done, among other things: In the situation they are in, they had to borrow to finance maintenance costs, among other things. the protection requirements. It is clear that there may have been many reasons for getting into that situation, but in any case, I believe it is a responsibility to find good solutions, so that these maintenance processes are handled in a good way. So I'm a little worried. But can the Council of State say a little about this when it is now transferred to the anti-tampering system — they were against it? And then the Council of State says that there are no changes in government, but among other things. Price and wage growth adjustments, which are not now included, and there is a lower political governance, as I see it, when it is now left to others to adopt a framework. Could the Council of State comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1161	I am, of course, aware that the grievances report that exceptional maintenance means are still needed to keep ships in good condition, and the state has – as I said – invested considerable resources to meet the needs of ships for exceptional maintenance means. So I don't think anyone's going to realize that there's going to be a pot where there's so much money available, and that you're going to create a pot just like that. But, as I said in my speech, it's important that we follow developments closely, and then you get to take the challenges that come when you apply for funds and point to the challenges that each individual has to face. It is also the case that in its budget reports for 2014, the grievances report that the ships are in very good condition. The full rigger «Southern Land» carried out the largest restoration work in the history of the ship in 2012, and «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» appears both prettier, I will claim, and more operationally than ever before. «Christian Radich» reports that the ship also appears in good condition. This is very pleasing to hear. The negative annual result generated by the ‘Southern’ and ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ in 2014 has been noted by the Ministry, and we have also asked for an explanation from the institutions and for information on how to cover this deficit. It is of course important to get feedback on. With regard to the ship «Southern», I am aware that they have taken up a loan and that you see that it takes a little bit to serve it, but of course the board is responsible for coming back to how they should be able to handle the expenses they actually have. I am also aware that the ship had a deficit of 4.7 million. kr. The deficit is mainly due to unexpected losses of leases and lower sales revenue. The ship has also had a very high level of indebtedness, as I said. Very well known, the Foundation aims to balance in 2016 and budget with profits in 2017. What I think is important is, of course, that you manage to obtain activities, so that you can also get income on the different ships, which are of course contributing to the balance of your budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1174	Thanks to both the interpellant and the Minister of Culture, who share the ambitions about how important these three shots are to Norway as a maritime nation, and what they mean. We may not have prioritised them well enough until now, when we see the efforts we have in other cultural areas. In the case of ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, it is quite right, as we get feedback, that it is in very good condition today. But as long as I've been a local politician, there's been a job all along to get enough income and enough activity. I think they're good at activity, and they have an active friends' association as well. It's predictability they're looking for. The exciting thing about ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ is that it is actually the ship that provides most young people with sex and mastering training worldwide. I also have to commend them for making contact with the local shipping companies, so that apprentices have had part of their apprenticeship on board, and not least the cooperation they have had with the Maritime War School, so that cadets from 2002 onwards have had a three-month drive. Now they were in the United States, so it's really good advertising both for the Navy and for Norwegian sailing ships. But I also get feedback that they are now assessing a new way of organising education in the Defence, so that the agreement they have now until 2017 might not be continued. It's also regrettable because we get very good feedback on the content of the training, what it means to be together to do the tasks and to be on the go, both for the apprentices who have been on board, and also – and not least – for the cadets. But they have also had very exciting actions for young people who have had challenges, who are on board the ship together and have to take part in all the practical tasks – in addition to being seasick between them, I think. At least they're going to be exposed to it as well. The biggest challenge is that they now have to search every year. If there were opportunities to set up a scheme, we fully agree with the principle that applies to a very large number of other cultural institutions, about 70/30. Finally, both the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland have agreed to cover the last 30 p.m. That principle seems to me to apply to all of them. It is a realistic predictability to impose on them self-activities, but they know that they can be economical for the operating bit, because they are constantly exposed to new certification requirements that may be more difficult to put in place on an old sailor. It is necessary to ensure a minimum of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1187	In addition to being the head of the committee responsible for the culprits, I am an old member of Staatsraad Lehmkuhl's Friends from my childhood in Bergen, live in Sørlanden and now work in Oslo with Christian Radich. So it's natural for me to take care of these three shots. It has struck me when I have said that I should have posts about the gossipers, that people get a little away in their eyes. It only confirms the need to keep them, so that people can also in the future know what a rig is, and what a grievance is in relation to fork rigging and the other riggings. This is an important part of our story that we're going to tell. Here we have the opportunity to tell it with active cultural memories in use, so they really understand what this is all about. So there are basically three things we're talking about when we're working with the gangsters. One is today's financing and day-to-day operations. The second is how to secure income for the future. And then there's also a little bit about the story. First, it's important to say that they've got a solid lift. They've got a solid boost in their grants really through two things. One was that the Stortinge lifted its subsidy a couple of years ago by 1 million. kr to each of them in increments. It was a good boost. But not least we have now clarified the 70/30 division, which unfortunately has taken some time to get in place. I've been with and fought all three places for just that, and now it looks like we're getting it into place. But we have to remember that there's also a lift that comes in addition, because it wasn't like that before. So by being a little strict on it, while the department has been rustling these two years and has not had curtailment because it was not in place, we have managed to raise the total revenue to the shots, and that's good. The economic challenge is different for the three. ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ still has a public mission, but it is announced that it may end. Christian Radich has just lost his mission to the public. And the 'Southern Land' lost it a while ago. In addition, they are in different situations. Yeah, they're "shipshape" today, as it looks. But ‘South Africa’, for example, is in a completely different protection class than the others. That means that something has to be clinked there, it has to be clinked in the old fashion, which is many times as expensive as it is to clink on the other shots. So here there are some differences, even if we treat them the same way, which also have to be viewed especially in relation to the historical promise made for the ‘South Africa’. I feel that we have made a very good promise – and that tells us something about how important these shots are to us – in the government grant. There are basic operating fees, and there is also some maintenance. We should remember that what was a special maintenance grant before, is now included in it, so really they're going to put off some of this money every year for at least ongoing maintenance and not just spending it on operations. But what they need, of course, is mission. It is important that we work together, as big-time representatives – I know that many people in Stortinget are burning to take care of these shots – towards different departments in that regard. The Ministry of Culture has made a good promise, and in a way has gone ahead and shown responsibility. But here it may be that we can connect to the Ministry of Knowledge – it is very suitable for working with them, it offers more opportunities. Not least, we should connect to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. ‘Southern country’ has taken its own initiative now and started an international school. I was there when they sailed from Kristiansand, and they started a new international school. That way they get income. We can let all the shots in foreign ports be ambassadors to Norway. Better frameworks around ambassador activities shall be sought for a long time. At the same time — and it is a bit exciting — they are ambassadors to Norway on public service missions, also reducing their costs in foreign ports. We have to see together what the public can do in terms of missions, so that we can keep these living cultural memories in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1210	Thank you to the interpellant for focusing on an important part of our cultural heritage, and not least thank you to the Minister of Culture, who also sees the importance of our shooting. As a Westerner from Hordaland, it is entirely in place to speak out the sailors, and especially our own 'Statsraad Lehmkuhl', which is the oldest of the three ships. It's something own when we experience the beautiful sight of a ship that slips off the garden. There's something majestic and presumptuous about seeing such a craft. These craft continue important maritime history, with training in different ways where young people get knowledge that might have disappeared, it wouldn't have been for our sailors. Our own ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ is involved in various other arenas: different sailing tours, scurvy tours and sailing festivals in the country and abroad. We in the municipality of Os have visited the Council of State for the last two years, where he has participated in an important summer event for our inhabitants. Lunsjcruise with the following pier dance has turned on well – yes, I will almost claim that it has become a kind of tradition, so we expect him this year too. He also has our supplier of sailing glasses for the osingas to Shetland. Such local events are very important and can probably be further developed even more in several municipalities, which in turn may lead to even more income. It is clear that it is challenging to stand behind and balance this with maintenance and operation while finding new ways of getting revenue for the shots. The state provides a major boost for the operation of the shots, which is absolutely necessary. But other close contributors have also been invited to give their share, so that the ship in their respective home ports will also pass on an additional value for just their home ports. Therefore, these funds are very important also for further operations and maintenance, so that not only the country is alone as a contributor. It is therefore gratifying that there has been a good progress in the past few years' contribution. The country's expectation is that one contributes at least 30 pst. of the collective public opinion, which one sees in 2015 for ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’. Allowances to the shooters have been removed from the state budget since 2015 and transferred to the tipper funds. There is no basis to believe that this will result less in means of operation, but that it is also of a technical nature. The three craft that form the basis of this interpellation, we all need to move on to preserve our maritime cultural heritage, something that the Progress Party is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1223	I did not intend to take part in this debate. I must first be allowed to praise the representative, Kari Henriksen, to take this up and focus on it. It's weird about that -- there are some things that somehow seem more important than others, and this is one of them, to say it that way. I also saw, when the documents relating to the budget came, that this subsidy had been transferred to the funds. Without having any special insight into such things, I thought that it might not have been entirely reassuring, so I also got the anxiety that I noticed that more people have brought here. There's a sort of difference between being on a budget of appropriations, over the state budget, and being referred to some office in Hamar that is gambling, I thought. Now I've heard what the council said, and I'm going to base – and clarify – that I saw her there to the point where the appropriations for these sailors will continue as before, even though there will be another sender of the funds. Then I also assume that we're kind of keeping an eye on it, that we're safe on it. Fortunately, for ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, there are considerable private contributions in the picture here, which makes it a huge enthusiasm behind this locally. There is also a good response from both county councils and municipalities on the occasion of the case, and I am allowed to add that we hope that it will continue, even if we have received other regimes there than before. I realized, especially after hearing the representative Ruth Grung, that it should be in good hands. I just want to add that, as I said, I hope that the Council of State will follow this closely, because that is the way – to say it a little popular – that there are some things you don't fool with. Should something happen to ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, it is roughly in line with the fact that the Sports Club Fire would be wiped out by the map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1236	Thanks to the interpellant. I had no intention of having any comments on this matter either, but I feel almost morally obliged to have a post as a representative of Hordaland. I can sign what has been said here about this being a very important cultural memory that means very close to the identity of at least those who live in places where one knows about, sees and has knowledge of the shots. Of course, they are important training institutions for maritime competence. What I have understood, and which is a bit of the background to the interpellation, is that one has been concerned about funding further. It has also been a challenge to date. There is a need for confirmation from the Storting about how to secure a decent and viable funding. I have understood that this whole year's operation, which is extremely important to secure also for recruiting and keeping the seafarers that you depend on, is a great uprising about. This national fissure layer was actually supposed to come before, I was a little surprised at that. It's a shame to admit that there had to be such a layer of spice in order for the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland to come and provide funds. But that's very good. I understand that they also want to have this confirmed in Stortinget when dealing with this budget, that this is something that should be done, and that the municipalities and county councils must enter. I also thought that was a very good grip. I have also been informed that the sailing ship is to be included in the net pay scheme in order to be able to recruit and qualify Norwegian seafarers. When it comes to ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’, they are obviously concerned that the agreement with the Maritime Defense and the Maritime War Ball is being continued. He's of substantial importance. In general, the shots want one to receive more community assignments, and they can contribute a lot to maritime training. It's like "Statsraad Lehmkuhl" that they probably get twice as much income from different tours and things they have as they get in public support. The maintenance work that has been done and the certification upgrade and so on have also been done very much with savings and gifts. So one doesn't realize that it's very conservative how they're going to operate, which is expensive. Of course, it's the move of the tipper that's now the cause of the big concern. I try to follow up on all the recommendations made by the Minister of Culture on funding, and some kind of confirmation that this should not at least mean that the public support is less conservative and that an ongoing assessment of the need for extra rights for maintenance. I just want to end with the same thing as the representative Sigurd Hille: I don't mess with these sailors. Here it is certainly a cross-political settlement – in the position and opposition – that we must follow along on the subject and further developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1253	I fully agree with the last speakers that this issue, these ships, is not being discussed. This is such an important theme that I think it's funny that you have such a unanimity in the Stortinget about it, and you've seen it in the past that this really is something the Stortinget will work on. Now there have been several people up and crafted by their ships from their municipality and their district. ‘Southern country’ has been mentioned, ‘State Council Lehmkuhl’ has been mentioned. We haven't heard anyone who's talked about the greatest and the most beautiful, "Christian Radich", who's known all over the world, I'd say, through movies, "Windjammer", and the TV series "The Onedin Line", so we can boast of that, we're from the district here. Back to the important theme. We're talking about cultural memories, we're talking about cultural protection, we're talking about historic ships that we all agree we have to take care of. They also have a key role when they're at the port of our big cities. They're a beautiful sight, they're a tourist attraction in itself even when they're at port. There's a big, big responsibility. I've been to the big consensus in Stortinget as it is about these ships, I also refer to what the committee has thought about this, which there is no discussion about either. Then I'm glad we have a government council that shows a willingness to enter into a dialogue. But I still believe that this should be a split layer between the municipalities, the counties and the state. Then I also think it is positive that we see that there are some private people who want to be involved in financing, and that we also see that they have a lot of assignments that make them get income for the ships. So all of this makes it very, very positive. Now it's said that we want to keep an eye on this. I'm not afraid of that. I'm not afraid there's going to be anything wrong here when we have such a large majority in the Storting, but we also have a lot of volunteers working on board the ships. We have some volunteers who are members of the Friends' Associations, who will probably remind us that this is so important that we don't have to rush it away. So I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic, which I think it stands to respect. Now we take a common promise and go to our party groups and put it on the annual budgets we're going to have in Stortinget. It's this combination of municipality, volunteering and countying that makes this completely unique, and that we have these great ships lying in our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1273	The President will say to the representative from Akershu that she would have liked to talk about "Christian Radich", but it does not go from here. [[Laughter]] The President then gave the floor to the inter-pellant, the representative, Kari Henriksen, who now has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1278	Then I can say that the president has been active in the preliminary work, so to speak, pointing out the need to also get a shot from Oslo. I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think it's very happy that there are common intentions, and that one agrees that this is something like -- I don't know if it's in the dictionary of the president, but in the South we say that we don't flesh it, and so we're not doing it in a total size right now. And then it's an important signal that's given, I think, to this government and to future governments that this is an incredibly important matter for the Storting. All the posts have been about the three things that I pulled up in my post, and I think that's good. It is a question of financing, agreement on fissures and agreement that predictability is difficult. It has been a matter of mission and uncertainty related to it, uncertainty related to the adequacy of the performance mission. I think Harberg had a good post in terms of pointing to other public agencies that could also be contributors to such a process. I think that's very good, and I hope and believe that the Minister of Culture will also take this with him. In the case of staff, more have been involved. I think it's also a challenge, because that knowledge and education you need to actually handle these ships, a few very few places can, and for that very reason too, it's important to keep these shots. The Labour Party has previously received a majority in favour of a note in a Document 8 proposal to achieve a more predictable and long-term development and funding of the Peace and Human Rights Centres. I am aware that representatives of the Workers' Party have now submitted to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a proposal for an overall review of important cultural memories, and with the consensus that is here today, at least I am not in doubt that we are going to be able to get joint comments on the field of sailing around that matter, and that makes me optimistic on behalf of the sailors. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1293	I must be allowed to thank for a good debate and thank the representative Kari Henriksen for promoting the interpellation. It's important to remind all of us how important these swearers are. As was said here, this is not something that is 'customs', and the Council of State agrees. Nor in this field is there anything the Council of State is doing and is making fun of – to say it the way it is. Just a few very brief comments in the end: Some people were concerned that some of the sailors have been used as schoolships, and that's very positive, but this isn't within the Ministry of Culture's remit, but under the Ministry of Knowledge, but I'm also among those who believe that this is a very good thing. It's very good that you can also use them for it in the future. With regard to this issue of gambling, we aim to continue the operating grants to the grievances, just as we have done before, and as I also said, when they send applications, they will be treated in exactly the same way as when they were in the state budget, so the transfer to the gambling funds does not change the management of the grants. And I also remember that we have actually supported them, that we have given more in operating grants to each of these ships in the last few years, because we see that they have great challenges. In the case of own resources, these represent most of the revenue for all three ships. But there's a very big difference, because both for "Christian Radich" and "Statsraad Lehmkuhl" represent own incomes actually well over 70 pst. – 73 and 74 pst, respectively. – while for the ‘Southern’ they represent 38 pst. On the other hand, in terms of total contributions, regional contributions have actually been higher in the case of the ‘Southern country’ than the other two. And as I said in my post, the Ministry of Culture has held several meetings with both the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland – and also the municipality of Oslo – to make them intensify it, and it has proved to be a success. Since 2015, there has been a notable increase in regional grants for all three, and that is very positive, and we keep in constant contact with these municipalities and regional decision-making authorities, that of course they also maintain their contribution in the future. I think that'll be very important. So just a little reminder to the representative Ib Thomsen: so it's not "Christian Radich" which is the greatest of them all, it's "Statsraad Lehmkuhl" which is. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1306	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1312	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1320	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to enable municipalities to adopt supplements in addition to current rates to finance increased control of the donation and sale of alcohol.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1438	It is voted on by A, I and II. The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1453	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1467	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. It is then voted on the Committee's position on B.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1480	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1490	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1498	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left Proposals No. 4 and 5, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Mr Tove Karoline Knutsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 7, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to bring an action for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which provides for individual rights of appeal in the event of breaches of those rights.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1531	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a review of the systems for the control of – and review of – the rights of hospital residents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1546	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make resources available for voluntary work to support human rights work in the care of the elderly.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1563	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to start as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian nursing homes, where residents themselves and their relatives are sources as well.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1580	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with a case concerning the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which gives individual rights of appeal in the event of breaches of those rights, as soon as the ongoing investigation into these rights has been completed and the consequences have been clarified.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1597	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the conditions of Norwegian nursing homes in its reports to international human rights bodies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete action to be taken by the government to prevent abuse in hospital homes through enhanced staffing, competence and better training of hospital staff and by ensuring that basic knowledge of human rights is included in the training of employees.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1633	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-04.ana.ud1571e1645	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Then has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
