ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e39	It's a special day, my fellow representatives. Today, 75 years ago, Stortinget held its last meeting for a long time. It was to go over five years before the Stortinget met again and before a meeting could be put in this room again. The five years of war from 1940 to 1945 are the only period in Norwegian history since 1814 when our national government was displaced by a totalitarian occupying power. Suddenly and surprisingly, this building of democracy fell into the hands of the dictatorship. After a dramatic flight out of the capital, the Stortinget departed from each other, but before that time, the magistrates had taken the responsibility that ultimately rests on the nation's national assembly in a crisis situation, that is, in line with the Constitutional Democratic Institutions through the Elverum mandate to legitimize the country's legitimate government through the war years. We have to remember that the story written in retrospect often provides a rational view of the drama of reality, in which you can rarely recognize yourself. For those who were in the middle of the events on 9 April 1940, the situation was highly untransparent and chaotic. What we know in retrospect, no one knew then. There is therefore a great deal of respect for the clarity and the ability to keep the overall values for the eyes of Stortinget under the direction of Grand President Carl Joachim Hambro in the most dramatic moment of the country. Hambro saw the possibilities and duties of the institution, and he was powerful enough to get Stortinget to take the necessary decisions. Norway was not – and could not be – equipped to take up the fight against the world’s strongest war power alone. On the other hand, the country's political leadership was the bearer of a political culture and a tradition that led to the threat of dictatorship being met with constitutional weapons. The Constitution, the democratic system and its rules of play were deeply rooted, and they became the leader of how the country's leaders were going to act. It did not save Norway from war and occupation, but it left the basis for Norway's further struggle with our allies. The power of power, the transfer of power of the Great Government to the king and the government as long as the war lasted, are in retrospect as one of the golden moments of the regime. This decision enabled the king and government to become a rallying point, a symbol and a hope. Dear co-representatives! It is in the nature of parliamentary democracy that the ultimate responsibility at last rests on the Grand Duchy. In this Chamber, the main representatives of the People's Government are gathered. We have the people in our backs, but in the act itself we are alone. Never has the responsibility been greater for Norway's people than for the weeks following the German invasion. The government had taken over the power of the Great Government, but was on the run through a country that had increasingly been seized by an enemy power. The stuttering representatives each traveled to their own place, but many were about to come under a violent pressure and be forced to manoeuvre in an unknown and uncertain terrain. The remainder of Stortingen’s presidency – for President-in-Office Hambro – followed as the well-known government – was negotiating with the Germans on a system of the occupation regime. Society had to continue to function, despite the war. The Presidency finally gave in to the Germans' demand to withdraw the Elverum mandate, to remove the government and to ask the king to abdicate. Later, they received support from a majority of the wholesalers. This legacy has not been convicted for no reason. It was, in the words of the Committee of Inquiry, politically irresponsible. But when we judge our predecessors, we must also remember that the situation in 1940 appeared to be more threatening, desperate and hopeless than we can imagine today. Fortunately, we can say today, the negotiations with the Germans were broken. A grand meeting was never held. The Powers of the Elves were not withdrawn by our elected representatives. On the contrary, the mandate stood as the foundation for the work of the Nygaardsvold government during the war, a guarantee that it, even in a foreign state during the period of occupation, crashed with the country’s elected people – and thus the people – in its back. Today, 75 years later, events in 1940 can be a source of reflection and give us important historical lessons. The experience of our people-elected meeting with the dictatorship reminds us that order can quickly become chaos. The Storting opens later today an exhibition where we see how the dictatorship literally invaded this building. Reich Commissioner Josef Terboven had his office in the Eidsvollsgallery, and Joseph Goebbels has stood right here I am now. These are images of the Internet that are still violating, and reminds us of the importance of being on guard and fenced about the basic values on which the Constitution and our democracy are based. 9 April is also a reminder of the responsibility of each of us, in the utmost consequence. In 1940, Stortinget held that responsibility, anchored in a strong political culture. The search for democratic values and ideas of the institution was a reflection beyond the temptation to choose the easier way out. Just this political culture is also our best protection in the future in the face of new crises. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must move on to our democratic function, namely today's meeting. The representative Freddy de Ruiter, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen on leave from 13 April to 17 April to take part in the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees of the United States and Brazil of the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn on study leave on 14 and 15 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hedmark: Rangdi Krogstad 14-15. April For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stang 14–15. April
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e104	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e107	On behalf of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Hans Fredrik Grovevan and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on an offensive and solidarity alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e112	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e115	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of the local representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself on the quiet rental of the property rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 8 April 2015: «Temporary Board of the Ministry of Knowledge Reference is made to letter 13 February 2015 on the Board of the Ministry of Knowledge in the time when the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen liquidates parental leave. Isaxis will terminate leave in the following periods: 6 April to 23 April 2015 22 June to 10 July 2015 3 August to 7 August 2015 14 September to 2 October 2015 18 January to 29 January 2016 1 August to 12 August 2016.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e157	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e164	First, I would like to thank the representatives who made the proposal on day-to-day activities for demented people living at home, and then I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. We've agreed a lot. This with dementia is a popular disease that affects many and more people. About 70,000 people are affected by this today, and the government has already announced that it has started its work of continuing the Demen Plan 2015, where patients with dementia and their relatives are welcomed in eight dialogue meetings with the Ministry, in cooperation with the Social and Health Directorate, the National Association for Public Health and the National Centre of Excellence for Ageing and Health, just to hear where the shoe prints. Their voices should and should be given much attention, so that we can tailor the exact offer that is appropriate, and that people can recognize themselves in use – those who themselves know where the shoe is pressing. Activity and relief are high on the wish list of very many relatives, and not least of patients. When one gets dementia and in many ways gets isolated, at least in the beginning, because one doesn't dare to show it – one understands a little of what is beginning to happen, and then isolates himself – is wanted to get out, the desire for activity, greater. In order to meet each person in the area that is important to them, the competence of those involved in day-to-day activities and the involvement of the user also becomes important. That is why their vote is important to the Committee. Those who get dementia, or their relatives, often think, how is life with dementia? How could it have been without dementia? What kind of possibilities do we have? Is there any treatment? Is there anything that could affect the quality of life? Or, how will our family, our cohesion and our situation become? Then we think in the committee that activity – entering and meeting the family where it is, while the sufferer of the disease is still allowed to live at home – becomes central, both in the further development of the disease and not least in the encounter with the rest of the family. The provision of services must be flexible and must be able to be organised according to the individual’s potential and needs, when we know that developments are so different. The need for day-to-day content and activity is important for all persons, but not least for those who have been affected by a dementia. Cooperation with voluntary Norway is central, so that, as far as possible, degenerates can be part of the activity they have been part of while they were healthy. Not only does Dementia hit the sick one, it also hits the family. We have about 3,000 people under the age of 65 who live with the diagnosis today. This would include day care and meaningful everyday life and provide a quality of life for those who are ill, but not least for those who have both family and children at home. A majority in – or at the end of – the Committee has proposed that by January 2020 we should be able to demand from municipalities that they actually have a daily activity offer for those dementia areas living at home. I'm glad we actually saw it as a practical opportunity to do it. The Christian People's Party will support that proposal. But it is also important to say that it obliges us here – it obliges us in terms of money and in budget – to prioritize this towards 2020, when one then tells the municipalities that this should be the bearer. So the Christian People's Party recommends and will support the majority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e179	Around 70,000 people are affected by dementia in Norway today. Demos is a population disease that increases with age, and is a generic term for several brain diseases that lead to cognitive failure. Several reports and evaluations show that there are still challenges and gaps in the provision of services to people with dementia and their relatives. One of these deficiencies is the provision of daytime activity. A daily activity offer for people with dementia can make sense in everyday life and prevent the development of dementia. Day and activity services provide mastering, meaning and good experiences for the individual and contribute to the relief of relatives. In addition, it may also contribute to the prevention or deferral of institution formation. In 2007, therefore, the Stoltenberg government presented a plan for strengthening dementia care through Demenplan 2015 ‘The Good Day’. As one of the many elements of this plan, an earmarked scheme was set up in 2012 to go to municipalities to establish a daily activity offer for dentures. However, several reports and evaluations show that the development of municipalities and the establishment of new day activities places for people with dementia have gone too late compared to the intention of the Demen Plan 2015. It is also worrying that the funds earmarked for the purpose of the previous state budget over the years have not been used up. Home-dwelling persons with dementia must be guaranteed a daily activity offer and the aim must be for all municipalities to have such an offer. The Labour Party therefore considers that the Government of the notified Demen plan 2020 must establish an obliging escalation plan and an objective that all residents with dementia with such a need should have a day-time activity space by 2020. Accordingly, the Health and Welfare Act must be amended and an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia must also be laid down. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to clarify that such legislation must be accompanied by an increase in the municipal framework corresponding to that of the municipalities, so that the measures are actually fully financed. Every day becomes a little different when you have a dementia diagnosis. It's still important to challenge yourself. So the constraints don't get too much power. Then also association with other people becomes important. Community and activity can be therapy in itself. And many things can be done together. Schemes such as Enter the Tune and Life’s Joy for the Elderly are two good examples. Gardening, walking, cycling, skiing, training, various games and interests are other examples that may be important to maintain. It is important to have someone do business with, preferably regularly. Then it is particularly important to take into account known interests and familiar environments, precisely because the disease makes it difficult to get used to new activities and surroundings. The Labour Party is pleased that the government has announced a new dementia plan, and that we now agree to strengthen the daily activities of people with dementia – an important measure initiated by the Stoltenberg government, which we can now jointly continue and strengthen. I am promoting the Labour Party's proposals in this regard and would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that we are voting primarily for our own proposals and secondly for the proposal of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e196	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e199	The President has solemnly started the day by telling us that there is a special day today – April 9. Perhaps it is therefore also good to say that April 9, 2015 is a happy day, a happy day for us politicians in this room who are allowed to participate and make a difference, but most of all for those who in the years to come will experience meaningful and valuable free minutes in an otherwise demanding everyday life with a lot of uncertainty, restlessness and disease. Indeed, daily activities for people with dementia are small and important free minutes. We know that the number of people with some form of dementia is going to increase in the future, and that there are also more under 65 years of age affected by this disease while they are still physically strong. Being affected by a dementia is a destiny for the individual human being, but it also affects very much the life and everyday life of the family and the relatives. There are 75,000 people in Norway who are hit by dementia, and on 12 January I met one of them – a man who apparently was at his best age, he had guaranteed not to reach the age of 60. To me, it was an incredibly strong meeting. We met at a daily activity center for younger demen spacers. He took a good time, told about how the disease had crept on, how he one day understood that he could no longer work. He told how the whole family was suddenly hit. The woman was sickened, and her life was simply turned upside down. Then came the offer to spend the days at the activity center. There he met equals, those who were in the same situation. Even though the disease made it difficult for the days, he felt that things were more related. He understood a little more and accepted a little more. The family could go back to an almost more normal situation when he had the days filled at the centre. The woman was on her way back to work, and life was a little easier for a period of time. These are the meetings that make me know today that we're in the process of making a difference to the decision we're making. We have waited too long for the municipalities to establish such offers. We know that this is one of the important contributions to strengthening dementia care. Dementia plan 2015 had a lot of good in it, and much has been done well in many municipalities. The government has now started working on the 2020 Demen Plan to continue the good work. This time, too, patients themselves, those with dementia as part of their lives, have become more closely involved in the work on the plan. That's right and important, because this patient group deserves our full attention in the years to come. We know that activity can help delay the development of the disease. Therefore, the proposal to legislate on day-to-day activities from 2020 is an affordable deadline for municipalities and a quite reasonable deadline. The government parties are pleased that we – along with the Left and Christian People's Party – are taking this important step, and at the same time I am pleased that there is finally a unanimous committee that will stand behind this. It strengthens the case. It is often not appropriate to criticise their political colleagues on the red-green side, when, after all, we are promoting a unanimous proposal at the end. However, it is difficult not to comment on the fact that the red-green parties, in their comments, are trying to present our 2020 legislative proposal as a kind of five-year break in development. I think it is important to remember that our government after the government change has made the scheme more flexible and increased the grant for daytime activities, which has facilitated 1,070 new places in 2015. But in addition, we are not satisfied with it and now require law enforcement, precisely because the experience has been that the municipalities have used the grant scheme too little, and because the story of the man I met in January is not unique. These people are found in all municipalities and deserve to be met with the same respect and with the same good professional offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e216	I am proud to be part of a government that is engaged in improving all aspects of our health care system, including dementia care. Together with the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we therefore set ourselves the goal of facilitating increased daily and activity opportunities for people with dementia. The government is therefore developing a new dementia plan, Demenplan 2020, presented in the context of the 2016 state budget. It's very gratifying that it's no longer a question of, but when. The working party will establish a contingency plan for day-to-day activities for residents with dementia. We say: Start starting – for 1 January 2020 it must be in place. How the municipalities choose to do it is up to them. Here are great opportunities to be innovative. Here, volunteering means a lot. They can contribute to a greater extent than is currently the case — by inactivating people with dementia, for example: in sports, chess clubs, cycling clubs or walking walks. Younger dents may also be given the opportunity to carry out adapted tasks in enterprises and organisations. The grant scheme is good and the flexibility of the grant scheme is very high. The grant scheme facilitates many different opportunities and forms of cooperation, and I find it very difficult to understand why so many municipalities have not managed to get this in place. There is a need for increased attention to be given both to the investigation and to the diagnosis of dementia. There is a need for early intervention and, not least, for strengthening the provision of services to residents with dementia. In 2011, only 9.3 pst. of these a daily activity offer. Some 70,000 people in Norway are affected by dementia. Of these, about 3,000 are under 65 years of age. At the same time, we know that the number of people with dementia could increase to nearly 140 000 over the next 25-30 years. Recently, the Right Party and the Advance Party held a seminar on the theme. We heard strong and touching stories and were reminded of why an extension of the offer is absolutely necessary. Being a relative of a person with dementia can be demanding. There are an incredible number of strong relatives in our country. For these people, it is important that they are given the opportunity to be relieved of the demanding task they have by having such an offer. This will enable more relatives to be important contributors over time. The security and certainty of their nourishment and love will be dear to these everyday heroes. This is important for relatives who may still want to work, it is important for the dent themselves, and it is important for the municipalities if they want their inhabitants to live at home for as long as possible and desirable. One of the challenges of the lack of day-to-day activity offers has been that the grant to municipalities has not been used to the extent we wanted. The National Association for Public Health pointed out that this has not been done because the offer is not legal. Now let's do that. At the same time, it has been important for the Progress Party not to signal improved grant schemes. Such signals always delay processes. I do not like the fact that we are introducing grant schemes that are constantly improving, although I see that this has been necessary in some areas. But if we do this every once in a while, it means that we always give a premiere to the municipalities that are late on the track. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that we are now making it clear that if the government were to make proposals for changes to the grant scheme, it should this time be for municipalities which were early in introducing such offers to their inhabitants. Many years of talking back and forth end at the seventh and last with two unanimous decisions today. 1: All municipalities must have an offer to make by 2020. And 2: The county needs more information about the grant scheme and the importance of using it. This is what I call action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e244	In Demenplan 2015, the Stortinget set a target in 2007 for all municipalities in the country to offer an organised daily activity offer for people with dementia, either in their own home, in the hospital or as a day-care centre. However, the target of day-time activity sites in this plan is far from being achieved, and there is currently a need for day-time activity provision to some 23 000 people, converted into about 9 200 day-time activity sites. A well-organised daily supply and relief for people with dementia is not only important for the person in question, but it is also a very important measure to improve the situation and security of the close relatives. In the case of people with dementia, there is often a very demanding care situation over several years. They take on heavy care tasks and are in great need of regular relief, training and professional support. Today, on average, the discount rate for municipalities is 30 pst. of the costs incurred by the municipality to establish a day-time activity site. Last year there were 160 municipalities that did not apply for support. Over several years, the municipalities have not used up the entire government budget entry, and the results of the previous survey, in 2011, show that the number of people with dementia with a daily activity offer only increases by 2.4 pst. over four years. The central party believes that Stortinget must soon introduce a legal obligation for all municipalities to offer day-time activities for home builders with dementia. Legislation must be followed by a change in the law and an increase in the local council so that the supply is fully financed. In connection with the legislative process, we also believe that one must consider the need for ear marking in an escalation phase. There's no good reason, we think, for the propensity of these places to be less than the propensity for the expansion of hospital places. I found it positive that the changes were made by the fact that the municipalities are now more free to use the funds as needed, and that the funds are provided independently of location and organisation, but we also see that there is a great need for information and education when it comes to day-care provision and the outreach arrangements in the municipalities. Some places are also facing the closure of day-time activities, and it shows that the need to disseminate knowledge about day-time activities and the outreach system to municipalities is great. 23 000 home-building people with dementia today are waiting for a daily activity offer. This is the line that gets to talk about. A person likes to talk about the queue of those waiting for a sick home place, but those waiting for a daily activity offer are few who talk about it. We mean that it's urgent to give these an offer. We think five years is too long. We suggest that the Stortinget adopt a mandatory plan and an objective that all home-building people with dementia need to have a daily activity offer by 2017. There should be a rise in expansion. We didn't get the bulk of this, but we're very happy that there's going to be a number in this room today to give the municipality an obligation to provide day-to-day activities in 2020. We propose in our original proposal 2015, i.e. five years earlier. We also suggest that the incentive for the development of day-time activities is increased to a minimum of 50 pst, as it is today, for the establishment of sick homes. Then we are pleased that our proposal in the setting to ask the members to provide a more systematic and active information to the municipalities about the take-off order gets multiples from all parties. On this basis, I would like to make the suggestions we have with SV in the case. I would also like to inform you that we are going to support the proposal of the Government Party and the Cooperation Party on a legal obligation in 2020. Then I'll notify you that the Center Party will support the Workers' Party's proposals in a secondary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e261	The representative Kjersti Toppe has promoted the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e264	As others have mentioned, the Red-Green Government established Demen Plan 2015 in 2007, with the aim that all municipalities should have a daily activity offer for demente by this year. The result is that 160 municipalities – or more, in fact – have not established such an offer, so there is a piece left for the goal. If we also add that many municipalities lack a dementia coordinator, which is an important factor in establishing day-time activities, the stand is even worse. We have to see this in context. It is commendable that the Central Party is promoting this proposal, and I would like to commend the representative Toppe and her colleagues for that. At the same time, I think maybe the Center Party has little respect for the time it's taken to get where we've been. So one has spent eight years not getting 160 municipalities to set up an offer, and then it's a little short time to spend two years getting them on the track. But that must of course be the goal for all of us, and we also have a responsibility to motivate our own parties in local democracy to stand before this patient group. They have the same responsibility as the County to establish an offer. Earlier this winter, we visited the municipality of Bærum, which is one of the municipalities that have come a long way to facilitate the provision of dentures, and especially for the young dentures, which are a very important target group for day-to-day activities. It was nice to see that those there offer bowling for demente. One would think that it was a bit difficult to coordinate that bowling ball, but it was a joystick, and it wasn't a bowling alley, there was a flat screen on the wall. It says something about what opportunities we have to organize, and that it's important that we learn from each other. So it was the most popular offer for the young dentures at the daytime activity center in Bærum. Another part of this offer that must be followed by the creation of day-to-day activities is information to its relatives. Dementia is often in a hurry – perhaps not so fast for those involved – but for its relatives, this is unknown waters, and they need to know what dementia is and what changes it is with people. We do not say anything about this in proposals for decisions today, but it is a call to the municipalities to, while establishing dementia coordinators, also to put in place information activities, which the National Public Health Association is a driving force for. In the future, we also need to establish new municipalities. Fortunately, my municipality, the municipality of Gjøvik, has established daytime activities, but it is an example of a municipal coercion from 1965, which is large in scope and has large care districts. Therefore, not everyone in the municipality of Gjøvik has had a daily activity offer. Transport and organisation are therefore also an important part of the provision of services in the municipalities on a daily and practical basis, which the new municipalities should consider and which the municipalities applying for grants to establish the offer should also consider. Another resource to give more people a decent and better life is voluntary. Many have a health or pedagogic career that makes them suitable for voluntary work aimed at demente. In Bærum we were told that the former work environment law and the 70-year age limit were a problem, and that they wanted a higher age limit in order to employ some volunteers, especially in order to teach them and give them more knowledge of dementia in particular. The tunnel has also been mentioned, and there is no obligation we give the municipalities to set up an offer under municipal law. There are many actors in most municipalities who can contribute, and therefore such activity environments — especially for young people — are important to remember as a resource in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e281	Let me first say that it is commendable and important that the Centre Party has promoted this proposal, as I also know that there is a broad commitment around a number of organisations and among many individuals who have experienced that an offer they strongly want is not there today. It is also an important reminder to us in the Committee and in the European Parliament that a crucial part of the debate, both on elderly care and care for people with dementia, is how we can strengthen the offer of those living at home. There is a tendency for the discussion of nursing homes to take all the attention. The development of home services in municipalities and the provision of good day-to-day activities deserve a much more central place in the discussion of future care. It is quite right that the pace of developing this offer has been too low. The municipalities that have not done their part of the job must take responsibility for this, and the previous government must take responsibility for this. That must be the responsibility of the current majority. But when someone else in the debate has pointed out that the red-green parties criticise a policy that we have also had a responsibility for, the simple answer to that is that it is allowed to learn. It is even quite important to recognise it when the political grips that have been taken have not worked well enough. But then it's also crucial that the new majority take it inwards. The difference between the proposals under consideration today is not the direction, but the pace of the phase-in of the necessary measures, which are both increased resources and stronger demands for the provision of day-to-day activities to municipalities and a question of the speed with which the necessary legislation will come. What we have been told during the treatment of this case is the extent to which the lack of daily activities is around the country. So, according to the letter from the department, there are 23 000 people living at home with dementia who don't get what they need, and that's a very high number. This is about the quality of life of people with dementia, it is about prevention policies, the possibility of preventing the disease from developing rapidly, and it is not least about the need to relieve relatives. That's why it's so important that we get this offer in place faster than it's now being added up to. Having said that, I am pleased that the majority is also involved in important actions. I am pleased that we now have a deadline for when the law will be in place. SV will later today vote in favour of the proposal for decisions promoted by the government parties, while at the same time maintaining that it would have been possible to do this more quickly, because lawmaking by 2020 means that there will be five more years, without the necessary guarantees for the expansion of the offer at the pace we need to achieve the goals we share. SV is behind three suggestions together with the Center Party. It is about laying down an obligation to receive offers already this year, providing offers to all by 2017 and necessary amendments to the grant scheme. We are going to vote in favour of the three proposals, and then we are going to vote in favour of the proposal for decisions by the government parties and the cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e295	This government is committed to improving dementia care. We aim to facilitate increased daily activities and to strengthen the efforts made to provide people with dementia. We are therefore in the process of creating a new plan to create a more dementia-friendly society and a better service provision for people with dementia and their relatives, Dementia Plan 2020. We're going to build the patient's healthcare and transfer power to the patient. Therefore, users and relatives play a central role in the preparation of a new dementia plan by the government. We have organised dialogue meetings around the country, where people with dementia and their relatives have recorded the new plan. We have received many good suggestions on how to contribute to more transparency, increased knowledge and better organised services for people with dementia. Daily activity offers were presented as one of the most important measures to live a good life with dementia, while receiving feedback that more offers, increased flexibility and more differentiated content are needed, which also take into account the interests and level of function of individuals. To meet the major dementia challenge, we need to develop a good, comprehensive range of services, where daily provision is a natural part of a comprehensive service provision. One of the main features of today’s dementia plan is the development of organised daily activities. In 2012, a earmarked grant scheme was established to stimulate the establishment of daily services. Unfortunately, the annual subsidy framework has not been fully used. To date, grants have been applied for and granted for around 2,300 places in the period 2012-2015. About 17 pst. by residents with dementia have a daily activity offer. It shows preliminary figures from the national survey of the provision of services to people with dementia in 2014. In 2010, it was 9 pst. who had such an offer. Of course, the development is joyous, but the share – and the speed – is still too low. The Government follows closely the development of the grant scheme and considers the need for changes on an ongoing basis. We see the need to strengthen the instruments to further intensify the development of day-to-day activities in municipalities. As a follow-up to the committee position, the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a proposal to amend the Health and Care Services Act. In the proposal, we will establish an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. We know that there is a great need to disseminate knowledge about day-to-day activities and the grant scheme to municipalities. The Health Directorate carries out extensive information work to disseminate knowledge about the grant scheme. They're going to keep doing that. In April 2014, the Health Directorate sent a letter to all municipalities of the country on actions in Demenplan 2015, including information on daily services. A number of conferences and all-day courses on day-time activities are also organised for people with dementia. In the mandate for 2014 and 2015, the county councillors were assigned to follow up the municipalities that did not apply for grants or that do not offer day-to-day activities. As a follow-up to the Committee's recommendation, I will ensure that the mission of the county councillors is clarified and intensified so that municipalities are informed about the grant scheme and about the diversity of opportunities available to organise different day-to-day activities. The Government will contribute to more transparency, increased knowledge and better organised services for people with dementia through Dementia Plan 2020. Based on the input from the dialogue meetings with people with dementia and their relatives, experience from today's dementia plan and new, up-to-date knowledge, we are now developing drafts for a new plan, to be completed and submitted in autumn 2015. I am absolutely convinced that today's Stortinget decides that we will introduce a statutory place obligation from 1 January 2020, and that I will follow this up and promote that bill for Stortinget, will mean that the municipalities will be speeding up their efforts to apply for the grant scheme that already exists. Here there is no lack of money for the municipalities to apply for, here is a lack of applications from the municipalities. We have increased the ability of the municipalities to search. We now provide a clear timetable in which the municipalities are given an obligation, and I am convinced that it will also increase access to applications, and thus contribute to the construction of the offer. But setting this requirement for 2017 would be completely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e319	It is gratifying that the Minister of Health and other political parties now want to lift dementia together. It is also very gratifying that we now agree that the obligation of municipalities to provide a daily activity offer should be legalised from 2020. The Labour Party has said that we want an obliging escalation plan in advance of the law, which can enable all municipalities to actually offer this daily activity offer. How will the Minister of Health specifically ensure that all municipalities are able to make such an offer from 2020 when he does not want to provide municipalities with an obliging escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e328	An obligatory escalating plan usually contains three elements. One is a description of what is good offer — the diversity of it. The second thing that a stepping-up plan usually contains is legal instruments to ensure that municipalities do what they do, and the third thing that a stepping-up plan often contains is economic instruments. All of this we have now started, and with the decision that the Storting is making today, to set a date where we come with a statutory obligation, all the instruments are in place in a stepping-up plan, while at the same time we are now making Dementia Plan 2020, where we are now for the first time involving people with dementia and their relatives in the work. So I see that all that you achieve with a stepping-up plan is actually going on, and then we're not going to spend time making other documents, but we're going to spend the time implementing what we've now agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e335	The size will today decide to impose a statutory obligation on municipalities to provide day-to-day activities by 1 January 2020. For those who are in line today and waiting for supply, five years is long, at least for patients with this type of disease. The council said in its statement that there is no lack of funds, but there is a lack of applications. Nevertheless, there is an impenetrable when it comes to the need to change the take-off scheme. So my question is, based on what one now knows, that one does not have applications: does not the Council of State think it's time to change the incentive scheme, at least do it better and after the same schedule as the incentive for health care investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e342	I think that the grant scheme is good. We've also made some adjustments that make it a little bit more flexible. We are also open to possible adjustments to this, as I also said in my post. But I perceive it enough that the main reason is that the municipalities have not experienced that it has been set a time for when they have a duty to do this task. And as the representative knows, the municipalities often prioritise the tasks they have to do, and then they push on the tasks they don't have to do. It would be unrealistic to set the deadline for 2017, simply because the municipalities will need time to establish this offer. In the last period, the right agreed with the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV that one should wait to set a deadline for the municipalities to establish the offer, on the grounds that it does not help to impose an obligation on the municipalities if the offer does not exist, and that the municipalities need time to establish it. Now we are strengthening this – through the decision that Stortinget is making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e349	I want to go back to this again that today we have a queue of 23,000 people who live at home and who have dementia, who need a daily supply, and who do not. Five years is a long time. When a person is not willing to watch — or at least signal — a change in the incentive scheme, but adopts an obligation in five years, the danger is great that many of those waiting today will not be offered until at least five years have passed. My question is: the 23 000 who are waiting for an offer today, what time can the Council of State say that they will be able to have a daily activity offer, based on what the Storting is currently adopting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e356	As the representative knows, it will not be the case that municipalities wait until 2020 to establish the offer. The fact that the Storting today says that this obligation will come into effect from 1 January 2020 is likely to lead to a continuation of the municipal efforts to establish an offer and to apply for the money that has been granted over the state budget, but which unfortunately has not been used up, because the pressure against the municipalities has not been strong enough. I am absolutely convinced that someone will now see a completely different speed in the development of the offer. This means that those who do not receive an offer today will receive an offer faster. And one won't have to wait five years before one sees such a development. That development I think will start from that time – and it is now – the municipalities realize that the Storting will introduce this obligation from 1 January 2020. I think we'll see a significantly faster improvement than that one then under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e363	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e368	I will also be allowed to thank you for a worthy opening of Stortinget today in connection with the marking of 9 April. The theme today is a worthy care for the elderly and the provision of a good offer to the demente. By 2050, the number of dentures will more than double as a result of age developments, and several of these will live at home. It challenges us. These are people who need meaning and quality of life in everyday life. Family members often get a heavy workload from having a dementia diagnosis by their spouse or parents. A daily activity offer will provide relief and certainty and security for the relatives that their loved one has a day-to-day out of solitude and a day-to-day purpose. The size has been previously committed to this and has adopted an objective of establishing day-to-day offers for home-dwelling dentures, and in 2012 a grant scheme was established for municipalities that would establish such an offer. It has been established from the pulpit here today several times that this offer has not been used enough. There's only been created 2,000 places, and that was for distribution to over 2,900. So many as 160 municipalities have so far not applied for the scheme, and there are 23 000 who do not have an offer today. The red-green government failed to stimulate municipalities to expand the desired number of daily activities for people with dementia. New grip was and is absolutely necessary. It is therefore incredibly good news today that we are going to legislate a daily deal for demente by 2020. The municipalities now need to speed up and establish good offers. In the Drammen municipality, a daily activity offer for dementes in Villa Fredrikke has been set up in cooperation with the Sanitätsföreningen. The rapporteur in Drammen and I were visiting just before Easter, and I promised one of the users of the offer to tell the Stortinget in the debate today that the quality of the offer is important. She was very concerned that the groups didn't have to be too large, and that the activity had to be adapted. It does not just hold to create an offer – the offer must have meaning and content. Today's activities for demente are also being researched, and Heidi Wang from the Nord-Trøndelag High School has received funding from the Research Council and the Kavli Foundation to document how day-time activities for demente can cause vulnerable disease, reduce medication, and prevent anxiety and depression. So what we adopt today is better health. Demenplan 2020 is welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e385	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e399	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e406	Human papillomavirus, or HPV, is a virus that increases the risk of multiple cancers, including the risk of cervical cancer in women, but also other cancers in both sexes. Figures from the National Institute of Public Health show that more than 300 women receive cervical cancer in Norway each year, that it is the third largest cancer affecting women globally, and that it is the most common cancer for women under 35 years of age. The rapporteurs therefore address a very important issue, and the majority agree that something should be done to reduce the incidence of cervical cancer. We are currently using two methods to reduce the incidence of cervical cancer. One is the offer for the vaccination of all girls in the seventh grade, and the other is the screening of women between the ages of 25 and 69. The government believes that all prevention work against cancer is important. Therefore, today’s offer of HPV vaccine to all 7th-class girls and a nationwide offer of screening every 3 years to all women aged 25 to 69 years are both important measures to prevent cervical cancer. Perhaps the most effective way to detect and prevent death as a result of HPV and cervical cancer is by mass screening for cervical cancer. Unfortunately, it turns out that many women do not make use of the offer, which is also why the number of cancer cases, especially among the younger, is increasing. We're most likely to have an important piece of information to do here. The government has already launched a major effort in the area of cancer, a commitment that will provide faster diagnosis and reduced waiting time for all cancer patients. The government's cancer promise is based on concrete changes in the organisation of Norwegian cancer treatment and has three main elements: In 2014, we provided interdisciplinary diagnostic centres for serious cancer in all health regions. This is now being followed up in 2015 with standardised packaging processes in cancer treatment and better cooperation with fixed doctors. The Government's carcinogenicity promise shall contribute to the rapid and good information for patients on treatment, to the avoidance of medical undue expectation, and to the avoidance of becoming health care wasteballs. The government is also working to strengthen the prevention of health work through a new public health report, its own youth health strategy and a primary health service report. Some of this work is already well under way through increased commitment to drug use and mental health, as well as increased involvement in health and school health services in municipalities. The majority are aware that, in October 2014, the National Institute of Public Health, the Ministry of Health and Health, recommends vaccination of women up to 26 years of age, and that in this case this is estimated to have a cost of approximately EUR 15 million. 52-65 million. kr. The proposal will therefore have budgetary implications. Any inclusion of boys will also involve changes to the paediatric vaccination programme. According to a letter from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, via the Minister of Health, this will require a comprehensive professional assessment, and the Public Health Institute will only be able to return to the department in the autumn 2015 with a recommendation on HPV vaccines for boys should be recommended in the paediatric vaccination programme. The majority therefore believe that it would be natural for a person to await this recommendation before considering the possible introduction of gender neutral vaccination. As I said, the government has already launched a major effort in the area of cancer, a commitment that will provide faster diagnosis and reduce the waiting time for all cancer patients. This work will be followed up and strengthened in the government's further work in the care of cancer. As part of this important work, it will also be important for more women to make use of the screening service, and we should be better informed about this. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, propose that the proposals be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e423	Mortality cancer is the third largest cancer affecting women globally and the most common cancer among women under 35 years of age. According to the National Institute for Public Health, more than 300 women receive cervical cancer in Norway every year. In 2013, 75 women died of this disease, and about 3,000 women are operated on annually for serious uterine cancer precursors. The Labour Party is pleased that the Stoltenberg Government, as part of the Norwegian paediatric vaccination programme from 2009, included an offer of HPV vaccines for each year’s coal of 12-year-old girls. The vaccine has been authorised for women up to 45 years of age and for boys, but by the fact that the individual himself has to pay for the vaccine. This represents a total cost of DKK 3500 to 4000, resulting in the fact that the vaccine is not available to all. Unfortunately, an increase of about 30 pst has been observed. in cases of cervical cancer among women under 40 years of age in Norway. We have two known methods of reducing cervical cancer. It's through vaccination and it's through screening. In the long term, the vaccine together with screening can virtually eradicate this cancer, and in order to achieve these objectives, the Workers' Party believes that we need to do more to increase participation in both of these prevention measures. We also meet the results of the pilot project with HPV testing in primary screening in four counties. The Labour Party proposes that all girls and women up to the age of 26 should be offered a free HPV vaccine, including those who have previously refused the offer through the paediatric vaccination programme. Furthermore, we also believe that an introduction of gender neutral vaccination needs to be considered. We propose this for several reasons. Item No 1: Recent research shows that this is the right action. The National Health Knowledge Centre carried out a methodology assessment on behalf of the National Institute for Public Health in spring 2014, which shows that HPV vaccines for girls aged 16–26 are both protective and socially viable. The conclusion of the report provides even more certainty that vaccination for collection will be a good disease prevention measure. Furthermore, a study published in the British Medical Journal in March 2014 also shows that the vaccine provides good protection against the development of severe uterine cancer precursors. Item No 2: The social dimension is also important to us and is an important reason for offering HPV vaccine to all women up to 26 years of age, so that everyone has the same opportunity to be vaccinated regardless of their financial capacity. The Labour Party believes that we need to use all available tools to reduce the number of cases of cervical cancer and uterine cancer precursors. Research shows that HPV vaccines for girls are both protective and socially beneficial. Several countries have also introduced HPV vaccines for boys, which we believe Norway should also consider when the recommendations of the Norwegian Public Health Institute are available. Free vaccination for several years’ coal and an assessment of gender neutral vaccination will be a proper further development of existing measures to reduce the incidence of cervical cancer, as well as to help prevent other HPV-related cancers, for both women and men. I would like to promote the Labour Party's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e440	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has promoted the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e443	Mortality cancer is the most common form of cancer among women under 35 years of age. At the same time, around 3000 women are operated for severe uterine cancer precursors each year. According to the National Institute of Public Health, 300 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer in Norway every year. The HPV virus increases the risk to this and other cancers. In the autumn of 2009, the HPV vaccine was included in the Norwegian Paediatric Vaccine Programme as an offer to all 7th-class girls, following a recommendation from the National Institute of Public Health. At that time, it was recommended that both the National Institute of Public Health and the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health and Care Services provide the vaccine to girls up to 16 years of age, but the red-green government did not find any room for this in its budgets. We had achieved full power that time. Now it's almost a little late, because the vaccine should be taken before making a sexual debut. There is also reason to recall that a vaccine is not a guarantee and that regular studies will continue to be necessary. The introduction of a procurement programme has budgetary aspects. That means that we cannot today adopt a detached proposal. However, I refer to a letter from the Norwegian Gynecological Association asking that this be assessed in the context of the 2016 budget. I promise that the Progress Party will follow the call and include it in the budgetary procedure. At the same time, there is reason to wonder that so few have chosen to buy such a vaccine themselves. I hope that is a sign that the vaccine is not well known, rather than the alternative, which may be vaccine fatigue. The debate has recently been raging around just this. Some have called for the use of the baby vaccination programme. For the Progress Party, it is most important that parents are aware of the importance of vaccines and that information on the consequences of not being able to do so becomes known. Of course, there is always a risk of implementing even more vaccines, but I still think the discussion about vaccination is also necessary for boys to take. The HPV vaccine can also protect boys and men from HPV-related cancers. However, at present there is no recommendation from the Swedish Institute of Public Health to include HPV vaccines for boys in the pediatric vaccination programme, but a recommendation on whether or not to include boys in the harvest has been signaled. Therefore, it would be natural for us to consider the possible introduction of gender neutral vaccination only once we have received this recommendation. The party is pleased that the government has launched a cancer lift, which is already proving to produce results. Rapid diagnosis and shorter waiting times, rapid and good information through, for example: implementation of package trajectories has been a success. No cancer patients should experience being wasteballs in our health care system. All prevention that can prevent cancer is important to us. Therefore, it is good to know that all Norwegian women between 25 and 69 years of age are regularly invited to uterine cancer studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e460	As many have said, cervical cancer is the third largest cancer affecting women globally, and the most common cancer affecting women under 35 years of age in our own country. There are 3,000 women with severe uterine cancer precursors every year to avoid developing into cancer. Still, we can't take all of these in time, and every year 300 of them develop serious cancer. The vaccine we are talking about here, the HPV vaccine, has been involved in the prevention of cell changes, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that it has been included in the Norwegian paediatric vaccination programme from the autumn of 2009 as an offer to all girls at the age of 12. I am also happy to read reports that show that more and more girls who are 12 years old are using it. In the case of vaccines for boys, the Christian People's Party thinks that now there are two reports, and there's going to be an attitude from the Institute of Public Health to make a recommendation, and the Christian People's Party wants to wait to decide on the coming recommendation. I notice that the representative Kari Kjenaas Kjos of the Progress Party says she wants to give priority to this in budgetary negotiations. The Christian People's Party would like to be in and discuss this in budgetary negotiations. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposals of the Workers' Party today, but we see that many of these measures are important cancer prevention measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e473	This representative proposal from the Labour Party is very important. The centre party will support both proposals that have been made, both on providing girls and women up to 26 years of age with a free HPV vaccine and evaluating the introduction of gender neutral vaccination. In the national cancer strategy, one of five intermediate targets is that Norway should become a transitory country before cancer prevention. National objectives shall be to achieve the objective of the World Health Organisation of 25 pst. reduction of premature death of non-infectious diseases. Cancer prevention will be very central to achieving these objectives, and we generally know that one of three cancers can be prevented. It is a component of the national cancer strategy to continue the work of maximising participation in the HPV vaccination programme among young girls. Today, there are 270,000 girls up to 26 years of age who have not received a free HPV vaccine, i.e. year-olds aged 18 years and over in 2014. For every year the collection programme is suspended, there are 30,000 new women who lose the possibility of getting an effective free vaccine. Research shows that HPV vaccines for girls are protective and socially viable. In October 2014, the National Institute of Public Health recommended that vaccination be carried out for women up to 26 years of age. The centre party believes that it is good prevention to extend the HPV vaccination programme and implement the procurement programme. There will be a one-off cost for the state, but priority will be given to a very necessary prevention measure. Several countries have also introduced HPV vaccines for gourmets. The Central Party believes that Norway should also evaluate this especially when the Public Health Institute comes with its assessment to the fall. The Government Party writes in the setting that the government in the Public Health Notice will give priority to preventive health work, and it is positive – the public health notice has been delivered. But it is not reasonable to say that a priority should be given to prevention of health work if a non-priority is to do so. It is good and good to strengthen the health centre, as stated in the comments from the committee, and it is good and good to have proposals for standard tobacco packs, but it does not help if one does not want to give priority to an action, a vaccine, which can prevent cancer in girls – just because one does not see that one has money for it. We know that the collection programme is socio-economically viable. I'm very concerned that we prioritise this. It shall not be the case that the income of the owner or parent determines whether girls should be protected from a serious cancer. We can read that the measure will cost between 52 million. SEK 65 million. kr per year for two years. Yes, it is a budgetary question, and I am pleased with the signals given by the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party in the Chamber, that there may be hope, even if one does not go in for it today. But the question is, why don't girls take this vaccine. I don't think it's vaccine skepticism, maybe it's little information, but first of all it's because the vaccine is very expensive, and there are a lot of families who don't think they can afford to pay this vaccine out of their pocket. It's also wrong when it's said that it's not necessary to take this vaccine after sexual debuttals. The Institute of Public Health says that he has a value up to 26 years – so it is important that this is not said by this pulpit. 52 million. NOK 65 million. kr – that amount per year for two years: I will only mention one spent 100 million. kr to expand the tax-free scheme and one saves 100 million. kr to cut fruit and green. This is about giving priority to preventive health measures, and I want to applaud the Christian People's Party into the budget negotiations, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e494	First of all, I would like to mention that there has been a vaccine debate lately, and there has been a tendency to mix cards a little bit in that debate. HPV vaccination already exists, so this is not a debate on whether or not we should have the vaccine, but it is a debate on whether or not we should have a procurement vaccine, initially for girls and women between 13 and 26 years of age, and possibly also introduce it for boys. For the Left, there is no doubt that we are for HPV vaccines as they exist today and are offered to girls in the 7th grade. In line with the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party and others here, including the Right, we are open that it may be a right priority to offer a procurement vaccine. So we know that the price of that is at least 50 million. kr. And if we're going to take the boys too, there'll be additional costs. This is a budgetary matter, and it is very rare that we grant money through a representative proposal. When we get a public health report and have a priority debate, the Left seems natural to see these debates in context – 50 million. kr is also a priority. There is no doubt that vaccine in grade 7 is correct. Then the next debate is about the 50 million. kr on the collection vaccine is an appropriate priority measure. Several have been involved in information work and information activities. These two measures are referred to as one of today’s 7th class vaccines and screening for women over 25 years of age, but few have mentioned the third concrete measure, which is information and information work. The representative, Røbekk Nørve, did so initially in the debate on health centres for young people and a specific youth health strategy. One might imagine that the means to carry out information and information work on the use of prevention, for example, are significantly less than 50 million. kr. There will also be a priority debate, which I believe belongs to the debate on public health. In Oslo, we have sex and societies, which are especially targeting young people. Unfortunately, there is less supply in the country. One could imagine that they could have a greater role in carrying out information and information work. It's also that someone is more vulnerable to getting the virus than others. That also belongs to this debate. So for the Left, even if we do not support the Labour Party's proposal in this round, we are open to continuing the debate and see if this is a proper priority. We have also learned that more recent knowledge shows that this is socio-economically profitable. However, it is still the case that there will be a priority debate on other public health prevention efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e515	The number of Norwegian women receiving cervical cancer, and not least the trend in the number of young women receiving it, is very alarming, and therefore it is important that we also politically concentrate on an objective to combat this disease. We have taken from the methodological assessment already mentioned in the debate, which suggests that there will be a very clear health benefit, and also be profitable from a social perspective, whether we extend the vaccination offer, so that HPV vaccination is not only part of the paediatric vaccination programme, but is also offered to girls aged 16 to 26 years, and also those who for various reasons have said no to participate in the paediatric vaccination programme at this point. We look forward to the assessment that is coming, which we expect the government to go into carefully, given the possible positive effects of doing what a number of other countries have done, namely introduce a gender neutral vaccination. So on that basis, SV is going to vote for the proposals we have also joined in the vote, which are the same as the Workers' Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e524	The HPV vaccine was introduced into the paediatric vaccination programme in autumn 2009, on the basis of a recommendation from the Public Health Institute in letter of 12 April 2007. I quote from this letter: ‘It is recommended that the HPV vaccine be introduced into the vaccination programme and offered to all girls between 11 and 12 years of age. It is also recommended that vaccination be carried out up to the age of 16.» At that time, it was decided to introduce HPV vaccines as an offer to girls aged 7 to 12 years. In the autumn of 2015, the seventh litter of 7th grade girls is offered HPV vaccine. The first coal to be offered as a 12-year-old is 18/19 years of age during the 2014/2015 school year. The digestion of the vaccine has been increasing after a turbulent start. Now vaccinate against 75-80 pst. of the girls offered the vaccine. The then government of Stoltenberg II did not find funds for a collection programme for girls up to 16 years of age, despite the recommendation of the Swedish Institute of Public Health. This was an unfortunate decision, as fresh estimates from the Swedish Institute of Public Health show that if a programme with a collection vaccine up to 16 years of age had been introduced at the same time as the introduction of the vaccine for 12-year-old girls in 2009, it would save much more lives than one can achieve by a collection vaccine up to 26 years of age if introduced from 2016. The proposers are well aware of the evidence that an extended vaccination offer for women up to 26 years has been considered cost-effective by the Knowledge Centre. The proposers are also aware that the proposal has budgetary implications and must be assessed and treated as part of the ordinary budgetary procedure. The knowledge centre has recently provided two reports on HPV vaccination of boys. It is the Institute for Public Health which provides the Ministry with technical advice on vaccine issues and which also assesses these reports. Overall, the reports and the Public Health Institute’s assessment will provide a good basis for deciding whether the vaccine should be offered to boys through the pediatric vaccination programme. I will decide whether the Prioritisation Council should also be referred to the case when we have received the recommendation from the Public Health Institute. The question of the possible introduction of gender neutral vaccination will also need to be considered in the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e546	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report on the subject. It is important that we use all available means to reduce the number of cases of cervical cancer and death as a result. The letter from the Minister of Health and Care of March of this year also states, as the Minister says, that new knowledge shows that the HPV vaccine is also effective for girls between 16 and 26 years of age, and that this will be a very cost-effective measure. The undersigned then wonders whether the Minister of Health agrees that an expanded HPV vaccine is itself effective and socially viable, and whether he will also use all available instruments to reduce the number of cases of cervical cancer and even promote a proposal to extend the HPV vaccine.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e553	We have certainly demonstrated that a collection programme for women up to 26 years will be a cost-effective measure. It won't be as good as if the previous government had extended this to 16 years when it was introduced for 12-year-olds. At that time, a significant improvement in the impact of the measure would have been achieved. But it is still an effective measure, and for this government, as for the previous government, this will therefore be an issue that one has to discuss in the context of the budget – whether or not a priority is given to it. The previous government did not prioritize it. This government will consider whether we should give priority to it, but that is a priority issue. We assume that all measures taken in the budget area of the Ministry of Health and Welfare are cost-effective measures. It is at the bottom when we give priority to implementing measures in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e565	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e581	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e590	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. All parties agree on the objective of better access to donor organs and increase the autopsy rate in Norway. The Committee's proceedings have been marked by this, and the position is unanimous in many respects. Here the government has made two legislative proposals: a proposal regulating the procurement of organs, cells and tissues for the treatment of injury or disease in another human being, the transplant law, and a proposal concerning autopsy and the release of corpses for use in education and research, the Autopsy Act. In the case of donations from live donors, the Right considers that the general rule should remain at the age of 18 in order to give independent consent, and only in exceptional cases donors up to 12 years of age should be allowed. In cases of donation from the deceased donor, we believe that the lower age limit for the right to consent in the living to donation after death should correspond to the 16-year-old age of health law. When lifesaving treatment is pointless and it is very likely that the patient will die in a short time, we will have the doctor responsible for treating the patient decide that treatment is to be given for donation. Such treatment shall not be granted if one of the closest relatives refuses. The treating physician shall decide, in consultation with the nearest dependants, the duration of treatment for donation. We require regional health companies to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to evaluate and implement donations. If we are to succeed with several donors, it is important that health professionals receive good training and guidance on how to bring the theme of donation to caregivers. Furthermore, it is proposed that the current distinction between autopsy in the case of death inside and outside hospitals and other institutions be lifted. The new law shall apply to all autopsies initiated by a doctor, irrespective of where the death takes place. The right assumes that it is the deceased who has ownership of his own body, and that donation must initially be based on the consent of the deceased himself. The right is concerned that the relatives cannot refuse to donate if the deceased has given his consent. However, we would like to make it clear that if the deceased has not given consent, donations can be made if there is no relationship that suggests that the dead person would have opposed it. Similarly, the Right supports the fact that today’s practice of including relatives on advice when the will of the deceased is not known must provide a basis for legislation in this area. Explicit declarations of intent of a person with consent shall be respected. This means that it is now legislated that relatives cannot refuse to donate if the deceased has expressed the wish to be a donor before he or she went away. The relatives cannot consent to the donation on behalf of a deceased person who has indicated that he or she does not want to do so. There are no formal requirements for consent in the law. Attitude-building work and campaigns to raise people's awareness of organ donation are important both for fulfilling the purpose of the law and for the practical work on transplants. It is therefore gratifying that we have now found fresh means of strengthening this work economically. Many have called for a donor register. We believe that a register where citizens are forced to take a decision on the question could damage the outcome of organ donation. It is essential that such a personal case be characterized by volunteering. In other countries, one has not been able to show that such records have increased the proportion of donors. We believe that everyone should be assessed as potential donors, which the bill also confirms. We also do not support the assessment of the possibility of consenting to be a donor, possibly opposed, through registration in the National Core Directory. We believe there is a danger that relatives will refuse to donate if they do not see that the deceased has checked for donation in such a journal. In addition, it is quite random how this will happen with checking in the journal. We support the assessments that have been made, among other things. under the direction of the Health Directorate, that this is not a way to go. New transplant laws largely imply a continuation of current practice, but make clear the objective of ensuring optimal access to organs, while respecting donor and relatives in a good and appropriate way. It is therefore gratifying that the parties on Stortinget have so far been so united in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e613	The bill we are dealing with today, on transplantation and organ donation, has as its starting point a work that was initiated by the Stoltenberg II government. A legislative committee chaired by Division Director Hans Petter Aarseth of the Directorate of Health was mandated to describe and assess the activities regulated by the Transplant Act and, where appropriate, propose a new or amended legislation. The selection was to consider donation-related issues from both the living and the deceased donor, the autopsy, and any teaching and research on the dead, and in particular on different aspects of information, participation and consent from patients and/or relatives. It is important that the parties at Stortinget can agree on important issues from time to time, and the Workers' Party broadly supports the proposals made by the government in this proposition. This also applies to the point where both the Aarseth Committee and several hearing bodies have been somewhat divided, namely whether relatives of the deceased should be able to oppose donation if the sight of the deceased is not known. Practice so far has been that the relatives have had this right, and we agree with the government that this practice must form the basis for lawmaking in this area. But this is also the case – as the rapporteur said – that when the deceased's view of donation is known, it should not be possible for this to be overestimated by relatives. It is not difficult to understand the argument expressed by many with a different view, that the need for sufficient donors is paramount, and must therefore take precedence, and that caregivers must be protected from being required to view organ donation from a related death. But fortunately, a more and more positive view of donation in society speaks for the fact that current practice, where relatives have had the right to oppose donation, should be used as a basis for lawmaking in this area. The general attitude of people means that more and more people can actually find comfort in the fact that close and dear bodies of the deceased can help sick people to live on through donation. The Labour Party believes that we must have a policy in this area that supports such a positive attitude in the population. We also agree that if the will of the deceased is known, whether it is positive or negative to donation, the vision of the relative should not be able to overestimate this – as the proposition also states. The Workers' Party supports that the question of donation must always be brought to the fore where appropriate. We therefore assume that health professionals are well trained and guided in how to bring the theme of donation to caregivers. It must be based on compassionate and respectful communication, where it is also emphasised that donation will mean a new opportunity for a fresher life for another person. We have noted that it can be claimed that some relatives can refuse to address the question of donation. We assume that the legal text takes care of those cases where the person concerned does not want to say anything about donation, so that the decision can then be taken by health professionals. Health services must aim at better access to donors, so that people with different organ failures can have a new opportunity for a longer and possibly better life. We believe that it should be assessed and investigated whether it is possible to consent to becoming a donor, possibly opposed, through a registration in the National Core Directory, which is intended to be continuously updated with more relevant information. This will be a platform to which the individual will gradually have permanent access through the healthnorge.no portal. This again means that the individual can easily enter, or withdraw, the information requested in the core journal. Any information on the desired donorship may be added to – and not to – a donor card. The Labour Party believes that the government needs to follow developments closely, in order to assess whether the legislation we are dealing with here, and subsequent practices, support the goal of multiple donors. It is vital that we strengthen and build up the experience that many have had, that in the midst of grief it is good that lost life can give another person a new chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e630	First of all, thank you to the Council of State and the government that has promoted this proposition. I know that the Council of State itself has had a burning commitment to the matter and has had it for several years, even when he was on the Health Committee. It also bears this proposition. This is clearly a matter of unanimous commitment, and where you want to contribute. It also shows the organisation of the Health Committee outside here earlier today, where the importance was just shown that we all – or at least as much as possible of us – have that conviction, fill in a donor card and are involved and help save lives. The medical science of the future is going to give us even greater opportunities than we have today, even greater opportunities and even greater chances of success in connection with the fact that someone who died can join in and contribute, but also in the field of living donors. It is clear that Norway is actually at the top of the world in this respect, including within that field. Since 1969, when we started this race in many ways, there has been a raging development. The most important thing here is to put down some posts. One of the pillars that has been very important for the Progress Party, which is followed up in this proposition, is just ownership of its own body. The discussions we've had over and over again sometimes, related to whether or not you should be allowed to make a reservation, have been a debate for the Progress Party about who it is that can take control of your own body. It must be individual. That's why it's just to be able to reserve a direction that the Progress Party has always been against. We've always been clear that the system has to be based on consent. That's what we're dealing with here. That is what is being adopted today. That's important, and the Progress Party is very pleased with what's in it. So little about the system itself. I think that the most important thing to succeed, to get the percentage that says yes to donation, is happening through a social debate. It happens that we have an increased focus on the matter, and it has to do with the way we conduct the debate. A few years ago, we had an even higher percentage that actually said yes. The reason was that we took that debate at regular intervals. The most important debate in these matters I believe is actually taking place around the kitchen table at home. It happens in the discussion that we have within the family, about what we can actually do and contribute to, if we say yes to this. Because it's clear that the most important thing we do is to have made a sense in advance. If we as individual individuals have made up our mind in advance, whether we have the app attached to this, whether we have the green card or what card we have, then we have a clear relationship with this situation, and then we also have a clear relationship with our relatives, that this is exactly what we want. We want to make sure that if we can contribute to a new life for another person, we have taken that conversation – and that conversation is important to take. Furthermore, it is extremely important that we focus on the competence of health professionals in cases where consent is not available – the conversation that the person should include these relatives who are in a situation, perhaps the toughest situation in their lives, and should take part in a decision that is extremely emotional. Then it is important that you have the basic competence to take that conversation. But the most important thing is all we can do and contribute to, all of us around the community who have said yes in advance, who have taken this conversation, and who are involved and help to sign even more cards like that. Furthermore, I am incredibly happy that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have signaled that there is 1 million. to strengthen this information work, and that the rest of the Storting has also joined it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e645	The Foundation Organ donation showed during the hearing that the number of Norwegians waiting for a new organ has doubled since the beginning of the 2000s. Medical progress and increased incidence of emerging diseases, such as Type 1 diabetes causes more and more people to need organ transplants. When the government now takes into account its proposals to facilitate more transplants, it is positive and good. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important that donation must be voluntary, one must have consent. No one has to be pressured to give up an organ. It is important to inform the donor well about the consequences of giving away an organ and what it entails for your own health. At the same time, I am proud that the committee today stood together and said that it has received a donor card and that it wants to go ahead. It is incredibly important to enlist more people who can say yes to the fact that they can use their organs in case of an accident and a sudden death. At the same time, it's important that the lower limit goes all the way down to 16 years. We know that 16-year-olds are able to make many choices, and I think they too are able to make this choice, which is about the use of their bodies and their organs. It is also important to strengthen the information and dialogue with the relatives. After working at emergency services for many years, I know how difficult it is – when one knows that one is losing it one is the most happy one – to sit in a discussion and get such a serious question, namely, whether one is willing to let it one be happy in, giving away organs. The competence of those who are going to ask these questions must be high, and they must be careful when they are going to talk to relatives about such difficult things. At the same time, I think that a lot of people, when things are going on, are happy that they actually got those questions and that opportunity. When a patient is clinically dead and has reported that he wants to be an organ donor, the Christian People's Party wishes that organ-supplementing treatment be given to ensure that organs are as secure as possible. We believe that the doctors should still be allowed to decide when the patient has said that it is his wish. It's central to securing enough organs. I believe that no hospital today takes out organs without relatives being involved and informed, and I don't think there are any hospitals that take out organs when relatives are against it. It is important to get a clearer piece of legislation than it has been, and it is important that this is made easier for health professionals, who are in the midst of demanding dilemmas every day, and who have to make demanding decisions in a short time. This was the transplant law, but autopsy is also important. When it comes to learning, getting answers and being able to research to get better, autopsy is central. The Christian People's Party promotes two proposals for legislative changes. One concerns new Transplant Act § 12, which deals with organ support when the patient will be a donor. The second is that we want forensic autopsy to be included in the proposal from the government because 50 pst. of all autopsies are forensic. That's why we have the opportunity to get a much larger material to learn from.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e666	The representative of Bollestad has addressed the two proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e669	New transplant law and new autopsy law are important laws. Transplanting laws shall regulate the procurement of organs, cells and tissues and the autopsy law shall regulate the transmission of corpses for teaching and research purposes. It's the more peculiar topic for us, but it's very interesting, and I think it's important and serious to get involved in this. The central party, after careful consideration and debate, has come to the conclusion that we're going to support the government's proposal in this bill, and support the assessments that have been made there. I want to link a special note to a matter in which the committee is a little bit divided, and it applies to donation from the deceased donor when the deceased has not expressed his view, the question of relatives' rights, and whether they should be able to refuse to donate in cases where the deceased has not given express consent. I understand that there is a shared view in this area. I see that the selection has been divided, the trade union environment is divided, and one is also politically divided. The purpose is more organs, as we need, and the question is about the law then underpins what is all of its desire. But we want to support the government's proposal to pass on today's rule that donations cannot be made if the relatives disagree, and also the proposal that one of the closest related nectar donations is sufficient. This applies when the will of the deceased is not known. We have found that the way to solve this is not to ignore the relatives' wishes in the case that the will of the deceased is not known. One in this area is forced to base itself on openness, trust, through an informed choice, and when it comes to the one relative, as many have mentioned, the state cannot judge which kind of relative is important and not, because it becomes a hopeless situation. We don't know which of the relatives knew the dead best, and how can we create a law that regulates it? Today we have a positive hold on the population of organ donation, and we're going to take good care of that. If there can be a perception that the state is taking action across the family's eyesight, it may be more detrimental to the cause than to the benefit of the cause. That's why we have landed on what's the government's proposal in that particular issue. Then it's very important to spread knowledge. What the whole committee did out in the hiking hall can be one contribution, where we stand up as organ donors and invite everyone else to be. We need to spread knowledge, take a position ourselves and acquire knowledge from our closest friends about what kind of behaviors they have, and the most likely must do just that. I am pleased with a comment that came from the government party and the cooperation party that goes on this very thing, where one specifies the importance of disseminating knowledge that one has to make a decision and ask others. In the light of the revision of the national budget, the Committee calls for 1 million to be released. kr for this work, and in the line below is the Foundation Organ Donation referred to in particular. I thought it was very nice of the government party and the cooperation party to come up with that comment, which has been opened up by the entire committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e682	I would first of all like to thank the Council of State and the government that has promoted the legislative proposal, and a special thank you to the case rapporteur, Mr Sveinung Stensland and the committee leader, Mr Kjöna Kjos, for their good cooperation in dealing with the matter. So I want to start by stating that Norway is one of the world's best countries to become organistically ill. Many medical fires have contributed far beyond their measured working time. Patient and user organisations with their fires have contributed. The organisation of transplantation activities in Norway is also an important contributory cause. In Norway, this activity has been added to the Rikshospitalet. In addition, 28 hospitals are approved as donor hospitals and have the important competence to clarify potential donors and consent. In the case of kidney transplantation, Norway has, among other things, have been successful because we have been a country in the first place using live donors, such as, among other things. The representative Nesvik said. This gives rise to interest in many countries, including the United States and Japan. representatives from France and Singapore have been visiting Norway to learn from our practices and knowledge. In recent years, the proportion of kidney transplants with live donor kidneys has been between 40 and 50 pst. of all transplants. Similarly, many countries now also look to Norway and how we carry out information and information work on organ donation. The fact that we in Norway have invested in information work and donor cards instead of registers is also a contributing factor in Norway’s success in accessing organs, that more than 10,600 have been transplanted since 1969, and that we have relatively short waiting lists. Countries that have invested in donor registers are successful in increasing the number of donors, as they need huge information campaigns to get enough people to register. It's just to look at Sweden's keel, which has long waiting lists and few transplants compared to Norway. Some of the registry countries have opted for a no register, as we have received more input on this issue as well. A no registry assumes that your organs are at your disposal if you have not actively registered against. Some claim that this is timely and modern on behalf of patients who need an organ. As liberals, I would argue that this is ethically problematic, as such legislation suggests that our body should in practice be the property of the state after our death. The target doesn't allocate all the funds. For the Left as a liberal party, it is essential that it is the individual who must make the decisions about his own life and body. And no one is entitled to any kind of treatment that is technologically or medically possible, if at the same time it is ethically irresponsible. Organ donation and transplantation are medically possible and a well-established form of treatment. But it must be practiced ethically. Ethically, it is one of the most sensitive treatments in today’s healthcare system, as it affects many people in a vulnerable situation. At that time, trust between treatment personnel on the one hand and patients and relatives on the other is very important. In Norway, a strong ethical practice has developed at the Rikshospitalet, which is also a contributing cause for so many in Norway to take a stand on organ donation. We have confidence that organs are not taken without their use, we have confidence that it is not linked to trafficking in human beings. There have been relatively few public mistrust issues between these actors over 40 years of organ donation and transplant activity. For the Left, it has been important in this review to assume that, firstly, we are not the property of the state when we die, that consent to organ donation should be voluntary and without pressure, and that no one should be able to claim an organ. At the same time, however, it has also been important to facilitate optimum access to organs. The new and revised laws, according to the Left's view, are well suited to meet all these conditions. We get to coordinate all parts of the business, we still have rights over our own bodies, and relatives are taken on board in cases where the deceased themselves have not taken a stand. We believe that this is currently the best practice. In order to assist healthcare professionals in clarifying potential donors and consent, and to ensure that organ donation is addressed as closely as possible, the Left has stressed the importance of information and public information. The Norwegian Organ Donation Resource Group, NOROD, is an important health professionals’ organisation, while the Foundation Organ Donation makes a great effort to provide information to the population. These actors must be guaranteed good conditions in the course of their continuation. The continuous work on information and information work is reinforced by additional means. In addition, the Left is pleased that we have agreed with the Committee that we need to take greater responsibility every eight to ten years to inform the public about their responsibilities in deciding on organ donation. From the statistics in the last few years, we see that information works. The TV series Livet waits for TV 2, where the State contributed a production grant of DKK 400,000, is a very concrete example of an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e703	In this case, there is unanimity on a lot, and there are common goals across the lots that lie at the root. That is why, in my post, I am going to focus on the one issue we disagree on, where SV is promoting a proposal that we have also remained alone on. There is no disagreement on two important principles regarding organ donation. One is that the view and desire of the deceased must always be respected, and the other is that the view of the relatives, when the vision of the deceased is unclear, must be taken into account. That's the degree of the last and how we do what's a source of disagreement here today, just like it was in the Aarseth committee dealing with the question. There are some important and difficult dilemmas here that arise at the moment that we don't stretch enough to take into account the relatives, but also at the moment that we don't go far enough to provide the organs that can save lives. We believe that the government has made a mistake when it has chosen the proposal which was initially a minority proposal from the Aarseth Committee, and which in practice gives the people a veto right in situations where it is unclear what the deceased themselves meant. We believe it is the wrong way to go, for two reasons: firstly, because, like many professionals who have been out in the media lately, we fear that it will be easier to lead to situations where the conclusion becomes no to donation, and secondly, because the relatives are left with a very great responsibility for a difficult choice, which is often to be taken quickly and in a situation of shock and grief. The Aarseth Committee, which is behind the 2011 NOU:21, presented what we think is a better proposal than the government is now making. The majority of the sample proposed that this decision be taken by the treating physician in consultation with the relatives. So the sample was very careful to emphasize that in practice it will mean the same line that we have today, namely that a clear no from the relatives should be respected. But this will lead – we believe – to a greater room for the good conversation between the doctor and relatives, and this will lead to the relatives not being left alone with the responsibility for the decision to be taken. It won't be a dramatic shift in society's view of respect for relatives' views, either, probably not a big change in what will be the practical consequence, but in some context, we think that such a law would better facilitate getting a yes instead of a no. The goal must be that we have a law that clearly expresses society's expectation and desire for a yes to be the natural answer, and we fear, like others in the trade unions, that in some situations the law that is now passed could be perceived as a signal of the opposite. That's why I'm probably a little negatively surprised that no parties are willing to support the proposal we've put forward, which is the same thing as the Aarseth Committee's 2011 majority. By the end of 2014, we had a record line for organ donation. It suggests that we should also consider going further in policy changes, unless the situation is now improving — even beyond what SV is proposing today. There has been a discussion in the past of the introduction of a reverse principle of registration, i.e. a thought that we could get a register for those who want to make a reservation from donation, instead of one for those who are positive to it. We are not promoting such a proposal today. We now believe that we should be careful to promote the majority of the sample behind in 2011, but it will be an opportunity to discuss the promotion of such a proposal in the future, if what happens now does not produce results. With that, I take up the proposal SV has promoted in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e720	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e724	At the end of last year, 418 people were on the waiting list for organ transplantation. Many of those waiting for a new organ are seriously ill. Some of them also die while they wait. We propose several measures to increase the number of donations. Health regions shall ensure that all potential donors can be evaluated and donated. It shall always be assessed whether a dying or newly deceased patient may be eligible as a donor. In addition, the law shall regulate when a patient can be treated for donation. The procurement of organs shall never be contrary to the will of a living donor. Children and adults without consent shall be able to be donors only in exceptional cases approved by the County. The law shall provide the framework for donation from deceased donors. The vision of the deceased shall be respected. Organ donation is particularly relevant when a person dies abruptly and unexpectedly. The most important measure to increase access to organs for transplantation is to make families talk about organ donation. The Committee is concerned that the population needs to be informed about what donation is and why it is so important. I fully agree that it is central. General information will help to make the most of the decision and to ensure that the decision is safe when the question comes up. When the view of the deceased is not known, we believe that the most important measures are to provide relevant information on what donation involves and to facilitate an open dialogue between health professionals and relatives. Absorption of organs contrary to the wishes of relatives would be an additional burden for people in grief. The Government therefore proposes to continue the right of relatives to refuse donations when the deceased has not expressed his view. We also suggest that relatives can refuse treatment for donation. The court shall be with the closest of all relatives. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee has joined these proposals. Who is the closest relative of the deceased is determined in accordance with the general rules of the Patient and User Rights Act. The Transplant Act should also regulate situations where several are considered to be the closest relatives. We propose that the closest relatives in such situations should agree that donations should be made. The new Autopsy Act shall regulate autopsy required by a doctor, in the law called medical autopsy. In 2014, it was performed in excess of 3000 medical autopsies. This is half as many as in 1985. Post-mortems are important in education and quality assurance of clinical activities and health statistics. We therefore propose measures to increase the number of autopsies. Regional health establishments shall provide the necessary competence and capacity. Medical autopsy should therefore be considered in all deaths. The general rule shall remain that autopsy can only occur when there is no reason to believe that the deceased would have opposed such investigation. The immediate relative shall still be able to refuse autopsy. The draft law continues the right of relatives to information that autopsy is desirable and that they have the right to refuse. We make it clear that the same applies to the extraction of biological material from an autopsy, for use in education and research. The person who has reached the age of 18 shall continue to be able to agree that institutions designated by the Ministry may use their bodies for education and research after they have died. The attention given to the research carried out at the Institute for Public Health revealed uncertainty about access to the extraction of biological material for use in research. The draft law therefore makes it clear that the requirement of health research law to provide information and the right of relatives to refuse such use also applies in the case of forensic autopsy. I believe that the proposals for new transplant law and new autopsy law will provide a good framework for the donation and autopsy activity. I would like to thank the Committee – both the rapporteur and the Committee as a whole – for a good work on the law, and for the fact that it has formed such a broad majority behind an important law, as it is a point in itself that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e761	As others have said here in the Chamber today, we largely agree with this proposition. We in the Workers' Party also support the need for healthcare companies and hospitals to have a more clear and systematic approach to addressing the question of donation when appropriate. We strongly stress that health professionals must have the good tools for respectful conversation with relatives, on which the representative Lysbakken was also involved, when the question of donation comes up – i.e. a proper and good conversation, and there is nothing in the law that contradicts it. What will the Minister of Health do to ensure that health professionals have the necessary skills and knowledge to address the question of donation with relatives in a good and ethically sound manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e766	I agree with what the representative says. I also believe that the best prerequisites for such a conversation are in the legislative proposal that gets a majority, although this is an area of dilemma, and that is also the argument for what was the majority's view in the vote and what is here the SV's proposal. But I think that when you finally see this and have an assessment both in principle and based on what actually best contributes to a trusting relationship, it will be the approach that the majority is behind in the law. Then the law itself will contribute to this being an area that becomes clearer, and that is some of that which has also been the purpose of the law. Then, as I said in my article, we also give the health regions the task of following this up, among other things. to inform and train personnel in an even better way to address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e773	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e778	Firstly, I am very pleased that the committee is as united as it is. To SVs Audun Lysbakken: I am very happy that you do not promote the proposal for a register, nor a no register. It's just to look at Sweden, which has used a lot of resources to establish a no-register and has been very poor with the number of transplants, and which has a long waiting list for it. There are quite a number of other measures that are important — and more important, probably — to reduce waiting lists than today’s legislation. One of these instruments is the training of several, in particular kidney doctors — kidneys are the large volume of transplants — but also surgeons in general and specialist nurses. Then there are also the financial framework conditions for operating this business, both at the Rikshospitalet and the 28 donor hospitals. We saw a rather significant growth in the number of potential donors reported when a DRG code for donation was established. This is a rather time-consuming process that health professionals need to have time for, and it's not just the conversation with the relatives, but also the monitoring of who are potential donors. Then it's the organization of the transplant operations at the Rikshospitale. We've got a lot of things to do. transplant coordinators. It's important that they do a job is dedicated to that task. The Rikshospital has been good at that. Among other things in Sweden, Germany and France, we see a waiting time for, among others. In Norway, it is generally less than one year — among others. Because the organisation is inappropriate, because it is more economically beneficial for patients to receive dialysis treatment, which is the worst solution for transplant recipients, or because they have a register that provides much less access to donors than we have in Norway with the practice we have here. The most important thing we do is to make people take a stand, and then you also greatly reduce what the Light Hill proposal implies – that the relatives can use their veto right. That's what they rarely do today, but unfortunately a little too often. The information work is important, and the more people who have taken a position, the less demanding that conversation becomes for health professionals. This is after all to judge the least bureaucratic way to do it. It's the most cost-effective way to do it, and it's probably also the most ethical and worthy way to do it, versus having a register to check out. And when is it legally binding? That's the challenge you're facing, and you can never go through a register like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e793	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e799	We are then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e806	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–3, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party 4-6, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the notified Demen Plan 2020 to establish an obligatory plan and an objective that all residents of dementia with such a need shall have a day-time activity space by 2017.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Health and Care Services Act by the end of 2015, which establishes an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia. Such legislation must be accompanied by an increase in the municipal framework corresponding to that of the municipalities, so that the measures are fully financed.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the 2015 revised National Budget grant scheme in order to reduce the municipality’s share of the total expenditure on day-time activities to 50 per cent, similar to the current grant scheme for the establishment of nursing homes.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e844	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the notified Demen plan 2020 to establish an obliging escalating plan and an objective that all residents with dementia with such a need shall have a day-time activity space by 2020.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the submission of Demen plan 2020, to ensure that the binding contingency plan is further accompanied by a modification of the Health and Welfare Services Act which establishes an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia by 2020. Such legislation must be accompanied by an increase in the municipal framework corresponding to that of the municipalities intended to cover the measures in such a way that they are fully financed.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the submission of the Demen plan 2020, to consider amending the grant scheme in order to reduce the municipality’s share of the total expenditure, at least to 50 pst, as is the scheme for the establishment of health homes.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e883	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for I.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e912	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the introduction of gender neutral vaccination and come to Stortinget with a proposal for the introduction of such an offer.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e930	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government asks the government in the 2016 government budget to submit proposals to offer free HPV vaccines to all girls/women up to 26 years of age, including those who have previously declined the offer through the paediatric vaccination programme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e963	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1548	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section 12 of the first paragraph of Section A and proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «New Transplant Act § 12 Treatment for donation, the first paragraph shall read: When life-saving treatment is pointless and the patient is very likely to die within a short period of time, the physician responsible for the treatment of the patient may decide that respiratory and other organ-suppressive treatment should be extended for the purpose of donation. The initiation of such donation treatment may be decided upon when the patient has consented to donation. Treatment after the first sentence cannot be given if one of the closest relatives, cf. § 3(d), nectar.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The voting boards showed that 83 votes were cast in favour of the vote and 9 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.32.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1566	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1571	I did not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1576	Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1587	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section 13 of the second paragraph of Section A and proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on the donation and transplantation of organs, cells and tissues, Section 13 on consent of the deceased and the nearest relative’s right to refuse the donation, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: If the consent of the deceased cannot be clarified, a person may still carry out the donation, if there are no circumstances that would indicate that the deceased would have opposed the donation. As far as it is mature, a question must be asked the closest relatives of the deceased if there is such a relationship. Decides whether donations are to be made by the controller in consultation with the closest relatives of the deceased.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1605	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on paragraph 2 of the first paragraph of Section B and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law of autopsy and autopsy of corpses for teaching and research, Section 2 is replaced by the following: Law of medical autopsy and donation of body for teaching and research and other treatment of corpses. The rules in Section 7 relate to research into biological material taken out in connection with a forensic autopsy. Paragraph 8, first and third paragraphs, relate to forensic autopsy.» The Greens have announced that they are voting against the vote and in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1623	So it goes over the rest of the paragraphs in A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1632	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1641	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-09.ana.ud2147e1686	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
