ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e28	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen on leave from 12 January to 14 January to take part in the journey with the EFTA Parliamentary Committees to Turkey from the representative of Audun Lysbakken on parental leave from 12 January to 16 January from the representative of Martin Henriksen on parental leave from 13 January to 20 April from the representatives of Siri A. Meling, Åse Michaelsen and Kåre Simensen on leave from 13 January to 27 March – all to take part in the Chief Executive Course of Defence College On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen 13 January–26. March For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen 13 January–26. March For the state of Hedmark: Rangdi Krogstad 13-14. January For the province of Hordaland: Gina Knutson Barstad 13-14. January For Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal 13 January–26. March For Troms County: Sigmund Steinnes 13 January–16. April
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e102	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e105	Happy New Year, President! I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the Green Party and myself that the purchase of climate allowances in developing countries will no longer be used in the Norwegian climate accounts as a substitute for cutting emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e112	The representative, Mr Kapur, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e115	On behalf of the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Kenneth Svendsen, Geir S. Tskedal, André Skjelstad, Michael Tetzschner and myself, I am promoting proposals to amend the electoral law. The decision to hold elections shall be taken over one or two days by the City Council as a general majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e120	The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e123	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Ingunn Gjerstad, Kirsti Bergstø, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to prevent child labour and unworthy working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e128	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e132	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Trond Giske. Marianne Aasen, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Christian Tynning Bjørnø and myself will submit a proposal for a representative on lifting for professional subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e137	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e149	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State would meet Vidar Helgesen, Monica Mæland and Sylvi Listhaug for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e156	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. In the summer, the government issued a big message about state ownership, and we looked forward to discussing this in the Storting in the time that came. The discussion afterwards has been about whether we are driven by ideology in the view of state ownership. We should be, because ideology shapes politics and what's good for society. The question is: does the state ownership we have serve social interests – goals we want to achieve? We now have a government that wants to sell entirely out of a number of state-owned companies, and reduce ownership in the Kongsberg Group and Telenor. But I want to ask a concrete question about one of the government's plans. Thousands of Norwegians make daily acquaintances with in particular one of the companies that we own together, namely the Flytrain, which the government wants to sell out of public ownership. The train carries 6.5 million passengers each year, has very satisfied customers and has contributed to a high collective share to and from Oslo Airport Gardermoen. So the question is: does it serve social interests to sell the Flytrain and lose public ownership of this very important transport year through the capital? The Labour Party believes that this is a bad proposal – financial, industrial, strategic and climate. When the new terminal is completed at Oslo Airport in 2017, the airport’s capacity is greatly increased, and we are to maintain collective voyages to and from the airport in the future. It requires an increase in train capacity. In addition, our capital, our cities are growing, and it requires comprehensive solutions. Does it matter who owns it? We're serious. We believe that, and we need to ensure a comprehensive management of transport in a city that's going to grow by hundreds of thousands. We think it is bad for management wages, ticket prices and the airline's environmental work if public ownership is terminated. The Labour Party wants to build the country, not sell the country. What is the government's reason for selling the Fly train?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e169	First, I'm glad that the Workers' Party has now become too ideological, because they haven't been in the last few months when we've discussed ownership policy. That's good. The starting point for this debate is that in Norway we have a large and very dominant owner in the Norwegian state. The Norwegian State owns 35 pst. of the values of Oslo Exchange. This morning it was worth approx. 529 B.C.E. kr. By comparison, in Germany the state owns 2 pst., in Sweden 8 pst., and even in France the state ownership is 10 pst. If the government receives acceptance for the proposals we have made in the ownership announcement, the government ownership on the stock exchange – in addition, many unlisted companies – will go from 35 p.m. to 35 p.m. until 32 pst. I don't call it a revolution, I don't call it selling the heirloom, I call it having a thorough review of what the state should own, why the state should own, and how the state should own. That's what we've done in this ownership message. Is it good social policy to have an opinion on this? The answer to that is of course yes. We should have a conscious view of this, and the reason is simply that we should facilitate increased diversity. It is not unproblematic that the Norwegian State is such a dominant owner in Norwegian business. We should have a conscious view of this. We have, so we've categorized the companies. In those companies where the sole purpose of the state is commercial, we have said that it is not necessary for the Norwegian State to own. The air train is a limited liability company, operated entirely commercially and competitively. It is not essential for a good flight offer that the Norwegian State owns the shares. I think it's important to be aware that the state doesn't decide train times, the state doesn't decide train prices. The state owns the rails – we still have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e178	I'm very much for ideology, I. That's what drives us in politics. And the question is, are we using state ownership to achieve the goals of society that we find difficult to achieve in other ways? The argument that trains are running on rails anyway – well, I would assume that if we get a sale of the Fly train, it is likely, I read from professionals, that there will be foreign owners coming in, as it is for the Fly train in Sweden. I don't have anything against foreign owners in principle, but when we're planning for transportation in a growing city, I think that the ownership of the important modern public transport that can speak out of the same interest and from the same side of the table is an advantage in terms of how that offer is to develop. Instead, we get an argument that says we can bring down state ownership from some and thirty percent to some fewer and thirty percent. It's a goal to spread power and reduce state ownership. That, I believe, is an ideological argument that does not serve the interests of society – and does not see the strategic importance of the fact that public authorities can actually control the collective offer in the city of Europe that is going to grow most strongly in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e183	I fully agree that the Flytrain is an important infrastructure, but I completely disagree that it is essential that the State owns the Flytrain. There is a very important infrastructure in this country in the major cities along the Norwegian coast. This does not mean that the Norwegian state operates shipping companies, that does not mean that we operate bus services. That means we're responsible for the offer. So the government is the concession authority and has great power and influence over how the offer is made, but it's not essential that we own the shares, and it's good for the Norwegian business community and for the diversity that we get increased private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e188	Follow-up questions are given – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e191	There is little doubt that the government does not have support in the people to sell the Fly train, and we are many who wonder why the Fly train is to be sold. A study conducted by Sentio Research for the Nations shows that only two out of ten believe that it is a good idea to sell the Flytrain. The last thing in the series was the speech, which according to the Net newspaper is ‘deeply disappointed’ about the government in this matter. In addition to the obvious economic argument, the speech points to the role of the Flytrain in a comprehensive transport solution for the Oslo region, which we in the Workers' Party are also concerned about, as Jonas Gahr Støre pointed out here. So the government wants to sell a 100 pst. State owned company that goes very well, with nearly 100 pst. customer satisfaction, which gives good returns to the State. Does it make the slightest impression on the Council of State that there is so much resistance to this sale? And can the Council of State try once to explain to the Government why does the government believe that the airline actually has to be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e200	I think it is good to have a good debate. I also think that there is a good deal of disagreement about a number of policy issues. These are difficult issues, but we still have to dry up. When the Norwegian State is such a dominant owner, I believe it is right to have a review of it. It's worth noting that it also had the red-green government. The red-green government sold companies that went well abroad. It's just that then it was the right policy, now it's not. Then I repeat: the flight train is important infrastructure, but it is not essential for a good train offer that the Norwegian State owns. It also owns the NSB. There is not as much satisfaction and punctuality as for the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e209	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e212	We've had an ideological change of words – that's all right. But the question is, what is the purpose of a state ownership? Now we are facing a major rail reform. Both the NSB and the Railway Agency shall be reorganised. The railway sector is complex: changes in one location have consequences in other parts of the system. The flight, which the government wants to sell, is part of this complex system. As we see it, it is an advantage that the state owns the majority of the shares in the Fly train in order to achieve the most complete and good reform in the railway sector. My question to the Council of State is: what is it that the government is now asking, when we are going to have a rail reform, to sell out of the Fly train?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e222	That's how things have to be done in the right order and in the right order, we're completely in agreement. That's now we're delivering a statement of ownership, that's now we've done a review of the companies, and that's now we're asking for powers to make changes in the companies, because we want to increase the diversity of ownership. So it's that things are going to be going to be going through in a thorough and good way. In the months we've been in government, 14 months, we've made thorough assessments of a number of companies, and that would also be the situation if you were given authority for the Flytrain. The railway reform and things related to this infrastructure must, of course, be in place before any sales on the Fly train are mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e229	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e232	Cermaq is sold out of the country, Chinese people want to buy the Fly train, other sales items can also get out of the country. It may seem that the only person who gets to stay in Norway with this government is Mulla Krekar. Why should a seller, and what do passengers care that one should do? The flight has had a moderate price development. It has frequent departures. Will there be more frequent departures? It gives a good travel experience. Will it be a better travel experience if a person privatizes it? My question is concrete and it is whether the Council of State can guarantee that the moderate pricing policy that the Flytog has had is being pursued and whether the Council of State can guarantee that one will not get a jump in ticket prices by privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e243	It is true that Cermaq was sold, based on a mandate obtained by the government of which the representative’s party was a member. It is also the case that the authority to sell Cermaq was obtained by the red-green government. Then they didn't sell because the price was too bad. Now it's sold, but then at the right price. It is such that I cannot guarantee the ticket price. I can't guarantee that it's state ownership, nor can I if it's private ownership. The reason for this is simply that the ticket prices are not determined by the Norwegian State or by the Ministry of Industry. They are determined by the board of directors and the management of the company. That's when it's public owned, and that's how it's going to be if it's private time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e250	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e253	I would like to follow up the question from the Christian People's Party. I fully agree with the Council of State that the importance of the Fly train, as with the rest of the railway, is the offer given. Now we are in a process of looking at the entire organisation of the Norwegian railway system, for which there is a great need. There is also a strong need to consider how to release private operators to other parts of the Norwegian network. But then it's important to look at the Fly train in a bigger context. I will then follow up the Christian People's Party's questions – whether the Council of State can confirm that any sale must await the reorganisation of the Norwegian railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e262	That's absolutely correct. The point of these powers is that some people spend more time implementing them than others. There are a number of powers in the Ministry of Industry that have not been used, and the very few powers that I have now explained – to go from 35 pst. ownership of Stock Exchange at 32 pst. – we're going to spend the time and the time on it. It has to be done in a proper way. It shall maximise the values of the State, it shall be good for the companies, and it shall be a total of a recommended solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e269	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e272	I notice that, on very specific questions about the Fly train, the Minister of Industry primarily answers with a general explanation that the proportion of public values at Oslo Børs is larger than in some other countries in Europe. But if we look very specifically at the Fly train, it is that there is a good financial return on capital. So it's a good company if you think it's important that values in society go to the community. But in addition, in the perhaps strongest growing region of Norway, we're going through a huge expansion of the transport network, where hundreds of thousands more people are going to live, and where there's a very great need to see this in context. Ownership offers opportunities at a strategic level, so my question is: why is it particularly wise to sell the Flytrain just before a should through a coordinated community development in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e279	Now I've just said that things are related, and that you see this in a context. What we're asking for is an authority to make an assessment at a time when it's right. With regard to the results of the flight train, I notice that someone from the previous government is very concerned about the results when we argue for a possible sale down. Last summer, the red-green government agreed to sell Ewos – with a result of 510 million. In 2012, 1000 employees – out of Norway. So you didn't have any problems with that. The flight is located in Oslo and Akershus. It goes from a to b. The employees stay where they are. The train offer will be where it is. The state owns the rails. The State is the concession authority. The State does not determine the offer of trains and not the prices. Then I think it's completely unproblematic who owns the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e288	We move on to the next main question – from Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e292	My question also goes to the Minister of Industry. Happy New Year, by the way. In the Prime Minister's New Year speech, we heard repeatedly that it is important to make a difference. I think we all fully agree with the Prime Minister. Since, in the last main question, there was talk of ideology, I can also start this main question with something ideological: that a welfare society is much more than a welfare state. It's easy to justify. Many people want to make a difference in Norwegian society, not least in the non-profit and voluntary sectors. It wasn't the state that started the first hospitals or the russian care, it was the very second thing that did – whether it was the Cathinka Guldberg, the Salvation Army or the sanitary women: they saw the need, they would make a difference, and they have done that to this day. At the same time, we see that the framework conditions for these institutions and for these non-profit actors are difficult, partly because of pension costs, partly because the public places too little emphasis on predictability when concluding agreements with others than the public itself. This has been the theme of the budget both for this year and for last year, where the majority have asked the government to work to improve the framework conditions for the non-profit sector. From the Christian People's Party we are very concerned to hear what the government has done and what plans you have for the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e301	On the part of the government, we fully agree with Mr Syversen's description of the ideals. For some people, they are ideal supplements to the public. It's not like that in our world. The ideals and volunteers have a place by themselves because they give a very good and important – and many times different – offer with a high level of competence and good professional environments. The ideals are important partners for the government. From the time we got into government, the ideal situation has been on the agenda, because we know that the state of public procurement will change with the new EU directives. We first had a legal review of the directives – what scope there is for the ideals for special acquisitions. It wasn't room for that, but it's an action room, and that's the action room we're now looking at how we can use ourselves. To that end, we have had a State Secretary's Committee working to look at the existing co-operation agreement between government and the ideals to make improvements in it. We've met with the ideals about that. We're trying to make a number of improvements, we're looking at our own action list to exploit the existing space, and we've invited KS into the cooperation agreement. KS has accepted this, but of course they must be allowed to have an influence on the contract. Let there be no doubt that we from the government are going to do what we can, and will facilitate that ideals can also in the future offer a good deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e310	I thank you for your answer and am pleased with the ideological starting point. Let me give you an example of how this is practiced. We have had a debate on the agreement relating to tax-free sales. The agreement that was concluded there is not the responsibility of this government, but there can be a chain of shops with 10 years plus in the long term in the agreement with Avinor, while some child protection institutions have to do with one year. I'm not going to be so rhetorical that I'm going to ask which of these needs the most predictability and long-term in the contractual relationship. I think everyone sees that. My question is: how will the government actually make use of the space for action and come to the point of making long-term agreements with the ideal actors where it is possible – and that it is repeated across the line, not just in individual areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e319	Once the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has concluded a short-term agreement, it is precisely because we are changing the legislation. It is in order not to conflict with the new legislation that a short-term agreement has been concluded, one could unfortunately not prolongate the existing one. One of the things we're looking at in the agreement we have with the ideals is the length of the agreement. Like the questioner, we fully agree that long agreements in some areas would be very good both for the ideals and for the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e326	Follow-up questions are given – first from Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e329	Thanks to the Council of State for what she said that NPISHs ‘have a place in force by themselves’. The legal assessment made by Professor Fredrik Sejersted for the government shows that it is possible to have longer contract periods. The whole challenge here is an EU directive, but Professor Sejersted’s investigation also states that there is a national space for action. For us, it is important that we use this space of action – that it is used to give us a good and harmonised regulatory framework for ideal actors. So my questions are to the Council of State: When does the government expect to come to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain to change the law on public acquisitions? And: Do you want a dialogue with the parties in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e338	Finally, we want a dialogue with the parties, of course, we already have. We've met with the ideals, we're also going to have an openness to the Storting in terms of these relationships, which very many people are concerned about. With regard to the law on public procurement, it is the case that the EU Directive is to be implemented in 2016, and before that time we have to have a law in place. By the end of the first six months we will come to Stortinget with changes in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e345	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e348	It is interesting to hear the State Council of Malta explain why there is a need for such short tendering periods in the field of child protection when Health West has entered into eight-year contracts in the care of the child under the same legislation. But my question goes so far on something else: we hear the council here talk very nicely about the ideals, and we hear representatives of the government parties do so constantly. But in a debate that we had here in this Chamber on child protection tenders, the committee chairman Svein Harberg from the Right says: ‘I strongly react to the fact that the ideals as a supplier group are so clearly referred to as better and more dedicated to their work than the other private ones.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is therefore impossible for us to understand why one group of suppliers is to be protected in the tendering process.’ Is this an expression of the government's attitude, or do you want to take action to secure the ideals a separate place in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e365	I hope I have now been very clear on what the government's attitude is. We recognise them, and for the government they are ideal as a very important partner – they have been, and they should still be. When we got into government, we experienced a situation where it had not done a good enough job to secure the ideal place in the EU directive. We tried to do something about it, but it was too late, and what we did then was just looking at the action space in the legislation that's coming. We've been high on our agenda. We give priority to the work, and we work to get a room for opportunity to look at how we can secure the ideals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e370	Live Signe Navarsete – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e374	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for EEA Affairs and relations with the EU. I do not think we have received a good response to why the government will abolish a code that works well. The Secretary-General for Freedom Norway stated in early 2014 that abolishing that legislation would mean reduced capacity and lack of health and care provision and a weak civil society, and that it would lead to institutional death in the non-profit sector before the red-green government could change the legislation. What has the Minister done to the EU to ensure the ideal sector of good conditions, and how does this Minister specifically assess the space for action in order to ensure at least as good a relationship as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e381	One of the very first things we did as a government in this field was to look at the possibilities for the impact of EU legislation here, but it had already been adopted. We then started an investigation into the national action space, and the result is in a report from Professor Sejerstedt, which is publicly available. Then we've gone into this to see how we can take advantage of the unfortunately relatively modest space of action that exists, but we're going to take advantage of that space of action. It's very important to get this legalized, and it's very important to get this explained by expert teams, because those who are at risk if we get an ESA case, if we get a verdict against ourselves in the EFTA Court, is not the state, but the volunteer organizations. They will have to pay back if it becomes a sentence for illegal state aid, and we want to avoid that, because we so much appreciate the voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e386	Karin Andersen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e389	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. The investigation now referred to by the EEA Minister, to which the Government has made, has strong limitations. This was not an investigation into the possibility of reserving parts of the tenders for the voluntary sector, it was an investigation where the government asked for the legislation to have both the private sector and the voluntary sector within the same tenders. This means that the government has put restrictions into this work, which means that the answer to that inquiry can hardly be said to be adequate for the action space in Norway to maintain the possibility of strengthening cooperation with the voluntary sector. When studies show that 44 pst. by those who asked in the voluntary sector say that they fear that they will have to resign in five years if this legislation is implemented, as the government wants, makes this impression on the minister? And will you take advantage of the space of action that exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e396	It's just to find the space for action, it's just to find out the possibilities, it's precisely because we think the ideals are doing such an important job that we've done the work we've done, so first find out if there's any possibility within the legislation that comes, and that was decided while it was set up by another government. We've made a legal assessment. We are now working on a cooperation agreement. We look at several points of action in this agreement, we look at the length, we look at quality, we look at offers regardless of price – we look at a number of factors that are just about to form the basis for the ideal activities in the future. So I hope there's no doubt that we're working on setting up a system – and now together with the KS – and that's very important, because very many ideals do a big and important task in the municipal sector. So there must be no doubt that on our part we are working hard to put in place a regulation and a system that allows the ideals to deliver the important services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e401	Terje Breivik - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e404	The follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. I understand that the government has a fundamental commitment to running the non-profit sector and the important role it has in the welfare community, and wants to give the government credit for it. In a number of answers, the Minister of Industry pointed out that one in the dialogue with the non-profit sector now assesses the length of new agreements or new supply regimes. What may well be so important to get an assessment of is whether to go over to ongoing agreements, and especially in the area of child protection, not least in view of the security needs that young people also have for long-termity. So it would have been very ok if the Minister of Industry could say something about the assessments that the government has of simply switching to a completely different contract regime than just a time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e411	One of the things we're looking at is just types of contracts, how they can be set up, and different assessments that can be made in different sectors. Here we only find that there have been different assessments of the service provided, the length, in a regulation that is changing, because that is what is at the root of the assessments that have now been made. The assessments we are going to make in retrospect are based on the new legislation, the space for action we have there, and the possibilities we have to make just different assessments, among other things. based on length, quality and specifications other than, for example: price.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e416	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e419	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. In the Question Time on 12 November last year, the Prime Minister said in an answer to questions about national ownership of key Norwegian enterprises: ‘I think that the whole debate on unorthodox or Norwegian is a rather foolish debate, to be completely honest.’ This is an eye-catching attitude of a prime minister. I do not think the government understands the importance of the debate on Norwegian or non-Norwegian in fact for people in Norway. There is a broad consensus in the Norwegian people that we need to ensure national control of our natural resources. We have the repatriation scheme to ensure national ownership of the eternal hydropower resources. We have a concession law that guarantees local and national ownership of the equally eternal Norwegian forest and agricultural areas. Without the concession law, there are no restrictions on who can buy land and forest properties in Norway. It could be a share company and investment fund, and these could be Norwegian, Chinese, German, US – anyone can secure ownership of a large area of Norwegian land. The repeal of the concession law, as the government has now sent a proposal for a hearing, can in the long term turn the Norwegian land area into a global investment object. In the Ministry of Agriculture’s consultation note, this issue has been described in zero words. So the Minister of Agriculture has not found it worth using a single word for such a total change of policy. And to use the Prime Minister's own words when I ask the question: does the Council of State think it is ‘bad’ to have a law that guarantees national ownership of Norwegian forest and soil resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e433	What this government is concerned about is that private ownership of people should be strengthened. What the concession law contributes to is that the public can interfere with who is to purchase a property, the price at which it is to be purchased, and the fact that it is at all to impose great restrictions on private property rights. In addition, the concession law is used differently from the municipality to the municipality. It may be related to the political point of view that governs the existing municipality, and that leads to inequalities and what I would call injustices. So it's like I don't think it's going to get big buyers from abroad and take over Norwegian agricultural land. The capital flows where it yields the most return, and we have had many discussions about agricultural policy and the return of Norwegian agriculture. I don't think that's where the big ones come in and put their money. What I think, on the other hand, is that young people who want to buy themselves a farm, young people who want to move to the country and find a property, can get a larger supply of properties to buy, which is a lack of today. We know that today there is a big tear about the properties being laid out, and many will not spend their properties, simply because they do not get the price they are worth, and I think that is unfair. That's why it's about strengthening private ownership, strengthening people's ability to control their own land, their own property, and it's an important pillar of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e441	I'm recording the answer, and I don't think it's a reliable answer. I get an answer to what this means a few years in advance for today's owners. My question, as I ask the Council of State to note, concerns the long-term consequences of the repeal of the concession law, a proposal that the Council of State has described with zero words in its consultation note. And when I hear here that the Council of State doesn't believe, I think that if someone walks around and believes, and that's what it's based on, and one doesn't give a more thorough mention of it in the hearing note, I get very serious, because the law of concession is a law that has future generations in view. The important thing is to ensure Norwegian national control of our forest and agricultural properties. We don't know what the future will be, but there's every reason to believe that both food production and the values we can harvest from the forest are becoming more valuable from a generation perspective. I ask the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e448	What I think is going to happen in the future is that more people will have the opportunity to buy a farm. Today we have about 180 000 agricultural properties. Some 40 000 of these receive grants from the agricultural agreement. It means that very much of the earth that is in operation is clay soil – there are other farmers that run. And as long as you have the duty to drive at the bottom, this soil will actually have to be used for food production – at least it can potentially be used for it, if anyone wants to do it, in the foreseeable future. That's why I think this is a scare propaganda, which is being tried in connection with the concession law. It's about private ownership, it's about depriving politicians around Norway of the opportunity to intervene strongly in private property rights and the ability to control their own property. It's a value that I think is absolutely fundamental, and we're therefore concerned about making changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e455	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e458	Governments and governments have so far neither the political elegance, the power of action nor the power of implementation. The government sent before summer last year a case to Stortinget to cancel the price control, which is part of the concession law. This matter is still not dealt with in Stortinget, and it is uncertain whether and when it will happen. In such a situation, the Council of State chooses to listen to a proposal to repeal the entire concession law. It reminds me a little bit of the height jumper that ripped at 1.50 meters and then added the list of 2 meters, for safety. What is the Council of State's plan, and does the Council of State have a goal of getting multiples in the Grand Council for its policy and government? Or is it more important for this Council of States to use the legislative process for party political symbol markings?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e463	The government's ambition is to get the most implemented by the political platform in all political matters, and in agricultural policy we are well in the process of moving in the right direction with regard to what the government wants. The size is sovereign to decide whether they will deal with the issues we are presenting, whether they will postpone them, or something else, so it is the size that determines when it comes to price control, and on which a decision has been made. For us, it's important to keep pace when it comes to looking at the concession law as well. As I was in my first answer, this is about private ownership, which is almost sacred to the two parties that sit in government, and which we are fundamentally concerned with strengthening.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e468	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e471	The concession law is probably a cornerstone of the nation building in Norway, ensuring both local ownership and the local value creation. We heard from the government budget that one of the major debates was cut off in the wealth tax, where the government just argued that it wanted to strengthen national ownership. So we're facing maybe the most important political tool to take care of the eternal, renewable resources in the country, i.e. soil and forest, and then obviously securing national ownership is no longer important. So you're going to have to cancel the concession law, which allows you to control this. What is the reason why national ownership is not important in terms of soil and forest, which is the basis for what we are going to live on in the future, when dealing with the concession law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e476	What's important is to secure private ownership, and in all the foreseeable future in Norway, the Nordics and the state will own most of the property. Ensuring food production is important. We have a total mass that wants to increase food production. It's the duty to operate that's a cornerstone in it, to ensure that those who don't want to move on have the opportunity to rent out the earth, and that others can take this over. In the case of property taxes, the agricultural industry, both Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Teams and the Farmers' Layer, were among those who supported the government in reducing taxes on wealth, among others. because it benefits Norwegian farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e483	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e486	It's just as the Council of State says, it's an overall goal that we should increase the food production of Norwegian resources. Then we have to have a different usage structure, and we have to get a better recruitment. This is the overall goal that the Storting and the government have set themselves behind. Then you have to set up agriculture so that we can achieve these objectives, and then the concession law has been an important tool. I hear from the council that private property rights are sacred. Yes, once we've put the Christmas holidays behind us, I think there's a lot of other things that are sacred than private property rights. My question, in addition to this which is sacred to the Progress Party and the Right, is: What agricultural policy arguments does the Council of State have to remove the concession law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e495	I think that the representative Hemdal and I agree that Christmas is sacred, and we have many of the same views on that very thing. As far as increased turnover is concerned, I believe that one of the most important arguments for increasing food production is that young people who are willing to buy a farm actually get a farm to buy. The challenge for many today is that there are too few farms for sale to meet the demand that is really in the market. Getting a larger turnover will also increase the ability to buy a farm. With regard to the varied usage structure, I believe that it is also important to facilitate, and then it is about investing in professional full-time farmers for small and large uses. We have so many good examples that exploiting farm resources, even on small uses, can provide a way of life for many in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e505	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e508	What the Council of State obviously doesn't understand is that owning land is something other than owning a house. The soil we have is the basis for the food production we're going to live on, and that's why we've had concession laws in this country. There has been an agreement between the authorities and the owners of agricultural properties that there are some limitations that they need to observe. Then the state grants food production, because it is necessary to do so in this country, with the climate and soil structure we have, in order to ensure the production potential of agriculture in the future. The young people that the Minister of Agriculture is now taking in income for his view, who are going into this industry, are actually dependent on us maintaining an agricultural policy that makes it possible to live on it, and that the price of what they are going to buy is not going to be so high that it cannot defend the wages they get from producing food.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e513	Whether you are going to buy a farm or a house, you have to assess your private economy – whether you have the money to buy the property or the house you want. It has to be like that, whether you buy a house or agricultural property. So the obligation to drive places some constraints on how to use the land if you buy a farm. You're then required to run the earth, so it'll be taken care of through it. I believe that private ownership should be entirely fundamental, whether you own a house or you own an agricultural property. That's why we want to make these changes now, in order for the farmers to regain ownership and control over their own property.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e520	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e523	My question goes to the State Council Helgesen. For the Left, it is particularly important that Norwegian enterprises and businesses have relatively similar competitive conditions to those of countries with which comparison is relevant, not least EU/EEA countries. Once the government has chosen to have its own EU Minister, it would be thought that there was extra attention to this, and that everything that was in the government’s power was done to facilitate Norwegian business life in the best possible way. But it doesn't always work like that. The sitting government has distinguished itself in two areas that I want to highlight here. One is a great deal of eagerness to send all that this magnification decides to ESA approval, and the other, and more serious, is that it has been decided to go against the EU in implementing the EU regulation on capital requirements in one area, namely facilitating capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, popularly called the SME discount. The consequence of government policy is that Norwegian small businesses are charged with more expensive loans than is necessary, and Norway is throwing away resources and goodwill that should have been spent on the opposite, namely better framework conditions for Norwegian business. This has been discussed by the Left with the Council of State in the past, in the context of the persuasion debate and in the context of the financial debate last year. Both times, the Council of State has, at best, acted evasively and shifted responsibility to the Minister of Finance, although it is obvious that the Helgesen Council is responsible for coordinating work on EEA matters in the government. My question to the Council of State is: why is it so important for the government to take action against the EU in an area that will not weaken Norwegian interests, but rather the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e534	Let me first say that at the top of the agenda for this government is securing Norwegian competitiveness. It is no less important when we are now facing a long-term notified transition that will require new grips for, among other things. facilitating the conditions for a creative business. In the EU/EEA area, we have inter alia: emphasising the need to reduce the number of legal acts, as it ensures a level playing field for Norwegian business. Last year more acts were incorporated into the EEA Agreement on the Norwegian side than any other year since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. So we take this very seriously – not to appease the EU, but to ensure a level playing field. With regard to the question of capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Left has asked questions not only to me but also to the Minister of Finance, and received answers in this way. It is not an area of conflict with the European Union. It is an area where we choose to take advantage of an opportunity not to implement the provision on reduced capital requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norwegian legislation. That's the position we've taken. Norway remains in a completely different economic situation than many EU countries. We place great emphasis on the soundness of banks, the functioning of banks. Access to credit is very important, and soundness is a basis for it. Therefore, we do not want to impose lower capital requirements on banks than those resulting from banks' own models. It is not to conflict with the EU, it is to adapt Norwegian legislation to the Norwegian situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e541	I thank you for the answer from Helgesen and realize that there is a desire here to move on one step. The problem with government and government policies in this area is that it is obviously not possible to explain why they have acted as they have, and that there is no connection between what they say and what they do. I have, for sure, included a quote from the National Council of Helgesen in the NRK Radio on December 19, where he says: ‘It is important that Norwegian companies have the same rules of conduct as their European competitors and that is the EEA Agreement. This concerns Norway’s participation in the internal market, and then the legislation applicable to Norwegian enterprises, whose Norwegian enterprises would have a completely different legal framework from those of the EU countries, would not compete on equal terms.’ Does the Council of State consider that the government's policy in relation to the SME discount is in line with the statements he himself has made on equal rules of play for Norwegian small businesses as for their European competitors? Can we expect an active stance on my main question? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e551	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e554	There is absolute consistency between statements and actions here. We implement EEA legislation, we place great emphasis on implementing it faster than before, just for the sake of Norwegian business. And then we want to use the national space of action that exists, where we believe that the dosage of instruments in the Norwegian economy should be different, because our economic and economic situation is different from that in the EU. In Norway, there has been no problem with access to capital for business, and we want to build up capital in banks. That is why this has been our approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e559	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e562	The follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. Through its resistance to the introduction of the SME discount in Norway, the government imposes stricter capital requirements on loans to small and medium-sized enterprises than those owed to the EU. In particular, this is unfortunate at a time when we are experiencing a slowdown in the Norwegian economy, and we may be on the way to a low economic cycle, where small and medium-sized enterprises become entirely decisive. The government has shown surprisingly strong reluctance to introduce other instruments when it comes to securing capital for small enterprises and start-up enterprises, among others. by failing to comply with the Storting's wish to establish a seed fund-like scheme for incubators. SIVA's incubator program repeats the rule. The question is therefore: What prescription does the Minister of Industry have in order to secure the necessary capital for small and medium-sized enterprises in the economically uncertain times that we now see the outlines of?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e574	First of all, it is our job to ensure Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises framework conditions which are as much as possible equal to the framework conditions of EU small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the starting point for what we do within the framework of what we can do. We also look at legislation relating to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is important. I have not received feedback – even in the current situation – that the capital market is the main challenge for some small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a need for simplification. There is a need for tax reductions. There is a need to look at the legislation related to this. So we know that some very early-stage companies need capital. That is why it is very good that the government – among other things. Through negotiations with the Left, two seed funds were put in place in the State budget. It's good for early-stage businesses. From the government's point of view, I am committed to working out a business plan – talking to the entrepreneurs, looking at the specific framework conditions needed by entrepreneurs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e585	The president can't see that more people have asked for follow-up questions. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e590	I must also ask the Minister of Industry to come up, because my question goes to her. 168 million children stand up every day to get ready to go to work. More than half of the children work under dangerous conditions, and the Nobel Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi has been a central activist to establish a Convention on the Prohibition of and Immediate Action to Eliminate the Worst Forms of Child Labor, ILO Convention No. 182. The fight against child labour is one of the most important global challenges of our time, says Erna Solberg when the Nobel Prize was known. The public sector has high market power, not least in Norway, and has the ability to demand goods. Health South-East is a public body that has gone ahead and demanded that basic labour and human rights should be respected when the goods they purchase are produced. It is very important when we know that imports of e.g. surgical instruments come from countries where the risk of child labour and unworthy working conditions is high. However, studies carried out by the Future in our hands and the Ethics Initiative show that very few public authorities make demands, as Health South-East does. That is why SV has today proposed that the Storting should ask the government to propose changes to the public procurement legislation, so that we can prevent good and serious suppliers from losing supply competitions because the public does not demand that the price they receive reflects legal and decent working conditions. My question to the Minister of Industry is: Will the Minister of Industry be involved in tightening up the rules on public procurement, so that violations of basic labour and human rights cannot be used as a competitive advantage for companies selling goods to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e605	Let me first give the answer to the questioner to address a very important topic. Let there be no doubt that work against child labour is very important. It is prohibited, it is unacceptable and we must ensure that it works against this – both in respect of the behaviour of Norwegian companies abroad and in respect of other companies abroad. With regard to the specific issue of public procurement legislation, we are now working on it. We have completed a consultation round and received several hundred opinions on that legislation. The starting point for our job is to simplify the legislation. We also created a monster, as one who spoke out in today's business said. Government purchases goods and services for 400 billion. kr every year. It gives the public a high level of power, but it is also important at all levels of business to be able to participate and offer their goods and services – both to get a good price, more efficient purchases and not least to contribute to innovation and the development of new business. So our starting point for work is a simplified piece of legislation. I am constantly getting enquiries about good purposes that you want to include in the legislation. It is linked to apprentices, related to social conditions, related to the environment — a number of important motives for which the legislation can be used. But it is clear that, for every aspect of the matter, the legislation is also distorted. That's the opposite that's the starting point, and that's why I'm in a situation right now, in the middle of this work, where I can't conclude with what the government is going to do with the legislation we're proposing. But let there be no doubt that this is an important work that we fully agree on. The question is, of course, whether the legislation is to be used or other instruments. It is such that within the existing legislation there is an action room, which thus Health South-East uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e616	Thanks for the answer and for recognizing the problem. But I got the impression that it stopped by recognizing the problem when the Council of State began to describe possible measures in this area. There we got a long problem a little bit about doing something. Why could it be important right here? As the Council of State on previous issues has stressed, the public sector is very large in Norway, and public ownership is very large. It's an area where we could really play a role and do something with the code and follow it, which some big actors already do with success. Then we step up the goal of simplification, even though I may have thought the manipulation of ‘monsters’ is more appropriate for other matters than this legislation. One might think of simplification by removing requirements, but another possible simplification is to say that not every single actor should consider it himself, but that they should simply take care of it every time, so that there is a built-in standard that everyone must follow. Is there a reasonable possibility in the work of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e623	The recognition did not stop at the regulatory level. I want to be very clear that we are in the middle of a job, which, of course, I cannot stand here and conclude. We need to come back to that once we have reviewed the proposals we have received and review the means we should use to use public acquisitions as an instrument in this work. There are many other ways to work. I was in Myanmar recently and met Telenor and met the challenges of child labour. One of the things we can do as authority is to make sure that our companies out there are actively working against this. Whether or not to use the legislation, as I said, we have to come back when we are ready with a case for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e632	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e635	I never stop to wonder that those who swear the most to market forces seas are not willing to use market power as a major public sector is to achieve positive development. I'm quite shocked that the Minister of Industry can't say clearly now that what to regulate when purchasing through the public sector is not to exclude child labour, because that's what we're talking about. If we're going to do something about this, we need to use all the mechanisms to achieve our goal. I don't think anyone in Norway wants to buy goods produced by child labour. We don't want it as consumers, I don't think Norwegian organisations want it either, and it's ominous when the minister said that she thought that developments in Norway have gone wrong, and that we are too concerned about security and control. Can the Minister now assure us that child labour will not be accepted in this legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e642	I'm starting to wonder who the questioner has been listening to. I have been very clear that child labour is illegal, it is not acceptable, it is of course not something that will be accepted. The question is what we are going to incorporate into the legislation. That's when I've been problematizing that we've now created a monster. It feels like a monster for those who buy, it feels like a monster for those who deliver. We have to do something about that. There are a lot of good purposes we can go into and regulate in the legislation. The only question is whether we achieve the good objectives of using public acquisitions as tools. So I haven't concluded, as opposed to what the questioner gives the impression, I've said that we're not done with that work. We will come back to Stortinget once we have reviewed the hearing opinions and made an assessment of the form in which this legislation is to be presented to the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget will have to take the final debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e647	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e650	The Labour Party agrees with the Government Parties and the SV that the public must take the lead as a good example by standing in the ranks and making high ethical demands for procurement, just as we should have requirements for the State-owned companies relating to different social responsibilities. The challenge is to think of business simplification in combination with different societal requirements. The Council of State has said that you are working on this and are investigating it, but how will the Council of State ensure these two conditions? What kind of balance can there be in terms of social requirements and simplification work in practice in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e656	I think the questioner describes well the dilemmas you face. They are there, and that is the work I have described that we are in the middle of it, and therefore I cannot give any conclusions on that work. What I can say is that when we're going to simplify, it might not be necessary to regulate relationships that are already regulated by other laws and regulations, and such as: shall be prohibited. The question, of course, is how much you have to rely on legislation to make it even more difficult and even more complicated. I'm starting to think that we have to simplify. We need to streamline the public, we need to buy cheaper and smarter, and we need more business to deliver to the public. The public is a safe payer, an important supplier for very many businesses. It feels very hopeless today, and we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e663	Terje Østebø Eikin – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e666	The Christian People's Party believes it is an intriguing representative proposal SV has presented today. There is a broad consensus that the government should ensure that goods and services acquired are produced under lawful and decent conditions. The question for the Minister of Industry is: Is it possible to simplify itself away from child labour, and what other means does she see it possible to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e673	No, it's not possible to simplify yourself away from child labour. Child labour is illegal. The question is, of course, to what extent other illegal matters should be included in the procurement legislation. We're concerned that we have environmentally friendly and sustainable purchases, we're dedicated to promoting apprentices, we're dedicated to avoiding work-life crime – we're engaged in a lot of good purposes. The question is in what form we are going to work against this. Are we going to do it through this code, or are we going to do it in other ways? That's the dilemma we're facing, and that's what we're now working on, and we're going to get to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e678	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e681	With regard to the fight against child labour, the Minister of Industry has quite a number of different channels to contribute — both through the procurement regulations, as the Swedish authorities took up, and through the ownership of enterprises operating in many of these countries. Having international conventions to deal with, having standards to deal with, as Norwegian companies have, is important, and it is important that Norway has a high standard in its accession to the conventions. We are struggling to get Norway to join the Children's Convention's complaint protocol, for example, and it is important that we keep those standards nationally as to how to combat child labour and strengthen children's rights. Does the Council of State think that it is most effective to do so by means of procurement regulations, or is she willing to use her ownership more actively towards Norwegian companies acting in those countries where this law is weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e688	It is these assessments that we are now making, and as I said, there are many possibilities to use the Purchasing Regulation – both to promote good purposes and to make it more difficult to make purchases and to make offers. These are the dilemmas we have to deal with. But of course, regardless of that, we are working both against corruption and against child labour. We have a dialogue with our companies about this. We meet the companies, we ask them how they work on this. Like I said, I was in Myanmar. I've been to Vietnam and in several countries where Norwegian companies operate, where this is a theme, and where we actively ask whether you have joined international conventions, what rules you have, how you work with this. These are difficult dilemmas – which are part of the reality – that our businesses out there are working on, and there should be no doubt about what our attitude to them is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e693	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e696	This has been a question hour that has sometimes been about selling the country, and my question now goes to the Minister of Agriculture. If there's something the Workers' Party is very critical about, it's the government's plan to privatize and sell Statskog. It's really about selling the country. State forests account for one fifth of Norway’s area – Hedmark, Oppland, Østfold, Vestfold and a little more – a significant area. The Workers' Party sees Statskog as a success in securing the owners, i.e. the community, Norway, dividends and profits. It is a success for a holistic and good forest management, a success in ensuring future hunters and fishermen access to large areas, and it is also such that Statskog can become a great success as an engine in the green shift that Norway is clearly facing. As we can extract and exploit the oil, we can also use the resources of the forest. In this way, we face a major discussion and a major challenge when the government takes the initiative to sell all or part of Statskog. At all, it is largely about the nation's green gold and the community's inheritance silver. What is the reason why the government wants to sell Statskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e705	It is directly wrong when the staging representative Storberget says that we want to sell 20 pst. of the country. What this is about is an assessment of the drifty forest activity in State Forest. It's going to be 6 pst. of the total manageable forest resources in the country. So it is that the Workers' Party itself, when they were in government, sold the forest. In 2011, they launched an arrondering sale of State Forest forests of 600 000 decires of forest. Then the question is, why is it okay when the Workers' Party sits in government, selling the forest, selling the heir silver, as the representative Storberget says, while when this government starts an investigation to look at the same thing, then it's all of a sudden completely critical? I find this argument quite hollow. What this is all about is creating a strong forest industry in Norway. We have a potential that is huge in the forest industry. It's just traveling around our country and seeing how much forest there is. Much of it is about to perhaps lose its value, simply because there's been too bad a job of expanding the road network, of making sure that this forest is taken out, of making use of it, and of turning it into products, and that job is this government going on. This government, together with its collaborators, has made sure that the appropriations for forest roads are doubled. We now have a budget of over 120 million. kr for next year. It will actually ensure that this nation gets more revenue from the forest, and that we get used to the resources that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e712	I do not understand that the Council of State answers the question, which is why you want to sell so large forest areas. State forest therefore owns one-fifth of the land in Norway. I think it's about some and forty percent that are related to forestry. It's said that there are significant areas. The arrondering sale for which a total majority of the Storting has gone into play is a result of buying up, among other things. a good part of Borregaard's forests, so there's no disagreement about it. Here we are facing an initiative from the government to privatize what is associated with forestry, i.e. over 40 pst. of this large area. It is an essential part of what Norway has a great opportunity to develop into a green engine for the future, and I will challenge the Council of State once again: what is the reason why you want to put these large areas out for sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e718	As I said, we want a strong forest industry in Norway. We want those who own the forest to have the opportunity to buy more forest so that they can use the resources. The problem for very many forest owners in Norway is that they have such small patches that operating that forest in a professional way becomes difficult. By helping more private forest owners to buy for forests around the pieces they own, the state has a number of professional drivers, private drivers, who can make better use of resources in Norway. I think it's speculative when the representative of Storberget talks about 20 pst. of the area of Norway, for what is the truth, is that it's talking about 6 pst. of the wooded area in Norway which is buoyant. Neither is it that the government has concluded, but what we have done is to set in motion a thorough process in which Statskog has been commissioned to do an investigation, and then, in the light of the investigation, we should reach our conclusions, which Stortinget gets for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e725	Follow-up questions are given – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e728	In the case of the sale of State Forest, it is obvious that the rights to hunting and fishing will follow. These rights constitute large values. Many today can find a reasonable amount of money for both fishing and hunting on the properties of State Forest. It is also an important part of State Forest's societal mission towards the community. Is the Council concerned that hunting and fishing in Norway is reserved for only a few people with a high purchasing power when selling State Forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e740	In this investigation, of course, State Forest will monitor and explain the extent to which this will be affected, because we are committed to ensuring that these rights do not get worse. But there I would say once again that it is a bit speculative of the Workers' Party to argue that way. So it's going to be 80 pst. the land area in Norway is owned by private individuals. There is variation from state to state, but you can go anywhere in Norway and find that access to reasonable hunting rights is quite as widespread, despite 80 pst. of the country is owned by private. Many individuals make available the opportunities for a fair money hunt. I've talked to you myself, for example. Lion shield, which owns huge properties here in the Oslo area, which has as a policy that he rents out rights to people most, so they'll have access to this. So there's no relationship between who owns and what rights you have. That's exactly why we have a fantastic outdoor life in Norway with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e745	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e748	My question goes to the Minister of Industry, as it is about state ownership. State Council Melande said earlier in the line change about the Fly train that the government is now requesting authorisation, perhaps not to use it now, but to have it – as the system is. My specific question, after hearing the representative of the Workers' Party, is: Is it the case that the government in the big government announcement of state ownership requests authorisation for the sale of State Forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e755	No, we don't, but we suggest a review of State Forest, and once that review is completed, we will come back to what might happen. But first we're going to make assessments and look at all of this. We're doing things in a real way. I see that you're repeatedly trying to make the fear propaganda of the review we're doing, but I think we've been doing things properly and really over the last 14 months. The two powers we have used up to now, we have spent a lot of resources reviewing. Powers have been obtained from the previous government. But when the previous government asked for powers, it was neither ideology nor politics, nor was it selling the inheritance silver – while it is now produced as it is. Of course it's not, but we're going to have a proper and proper relationship with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e762	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e765	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. State forest is a state enterprise because, in addition to forest management, it also has a social responsibility to be exercised. The risk of conversion to AS or, where appropriate, the sale of all or part of the company is that hunting and fishing may become more expensive, that access to both hunting, fishing and cabin property to Statskog may become less expensive, and that the company or parts of the company may also be sold, not least to the rest of the world – to Swedish and Finnish interests. In my previous answers, I experience that the Council of State details a little of what a possible sale can contribute to. She almost makes it like it's in line with the arrondance sale or sale of forest land individually. If it's an investigator, it's not very controversial. But I understand that the investigation is about much more than that. The question is: can the Council of State confirm, on the basis of previous questions, that it is not appropriate to convert State Forest into AS or to sell all or part of the company as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e774	What I can confirm is what Statskog has now been commissioned to investigate. Thus, there are different models for the privatisation and organisation of forest activities on economically viable areas, i.e. not 20 pst. of the area of Norway, which the opposition tries to produce as, but 6 pst. by the drifting forest in Norway. They will also look at the economic and practical consequences of the models, and this will be presented to me on 1 March, so that the government can work on these questions and find out what we would recommend for Stortinget. In addition, this is the way I've been dealing with 80 pst. – once again – of the country is private owned. We have a fantastic outdoor life in Norway with a lot of hunting rights that private people also offer for cheap money, and the government is so concerned about these rights that we have just said that we should see how to ensure that they do not get worse when you are going to...
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e782	That's it. We move on to the next main question, from Rasmus Hansson. There won't be any follow-up questions from the other parties, but Rasmus Hansson gets two rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e789	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and it's about chicken concessions. Towards the end of 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture launched consultations with very short deadlines on the doubling of concessions for chickens for fattening and turkeys. This happened just at the same time as Norwegian consumers could read alarming news about antibiotic resistance in Norwegian chicken, which is increasing. The reason for the double concession is, according to the Council's website, that she wants to facilitate farmers' accommodation as they want. On the other hand, the letter of consultation places the greatest emphasis on improving efficiency and reducing prices for consumers. But what is little reflection to notice from the Council of State is that this efficiency is based on an already extremely intensive use of living individuals, chicken, and there is little reflection on the consequences of further increasing that intensity. In the hearing replies from 23 authorities, only one body was in favour of this measure and organisations such as Norsvin, Bondelag, Bonde and the small user team, and not least the poultry layer itself, were opposed. The Institute of Public Health, the Veterinary Institute and various other professional environments that have worked with antibiotic resistance, as well as the Veterinary Association and the animal protection organisations, were not asked. The Food Authority reacted to this. Then, however, the government decided to allow 280,000 chickens per year and 60,000 turkeys in a hurry before Christmas. There are a lot of animals to keep track of. This measure will obviously lead to increased density and intensity. Today, a finished grilled chicken life is worth about NOK 29.90 for a consumer in a cheap shop. This seems to me to be too expensive and too high a price for a Norwegian chicken life. The question is: does the Council have any idea of what a chicken life is worth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e800	Yes, I have spent quite a lot of time during the autumn putting myself into pricing in grocery stores. It is obvious that some offers are baits, which are sold below the price at which they are produced, and that we have some challenges related to the prices of groceries. There may be some questions about the future, as long as the krone price is weakened and imports are more expensive. What I'm concerned about is to facilitate farmers to develop their business, to facilitate that the chicken farmers, who today have been forced – at least some of those who don't have any more productions – to take a job outside the farm and have this on their say, should actually be able to live by being chicken farmers, if they want it. I think that gives much better animal welfare, because it gives the farmer the opportunity to be present on the farm and follow up continuously instead of having to travel on work part of the time to pick up incomes also outside the farm. So there's also no correlation between how many chickens you produce and antibiotic resistance, or the use of antibiotics. If we look at Norway and Sweden, Sweden has up to six times the size of herds. They use around the same amount of antibiotics as Norway. Nor is it right that the representative Hansson says that there will be greater stocking density. No, the animal density requirements are going to be the same, but we're actually tightening up the animal welfare requirements, because those who run poorly and don't manage to follow up in a good enough way, have to reduce the number of chickens they have on each square meter faster, which in turn will stimulate that the farmers will provide a better animal welfare, because it would be economical if they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e811	I thank you for the answer, which can be briefly summarized as that the Council of State obviously does not have any idea of what a chicken life is worth. On the other hand, the Council of State has some clear views that these measures will not lead to impaired animal welfare. There she is, therefore, in complete disagreement with the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, which has recommended that lower animal density is an important measure for improving animal welfare and animal health. One of the reasons why the trade unions are so critical of the density of animals is that they have very poor indicators of animal welfare. You talk about wiping on your feet – everyone who knows something about an animal knows that when it has come so far that it has wiping on your feet, there have been a lot of other welfare problems that you don't measure. What remains then is a situation in which we are covered by efficiency and so-called Norwegian food production – which has nothing to do with Norwegian food production at all, this is sales of foreign soya – thus getting increased density. The question is then again: when there is such a great deal of professional disagreement about the animal welfare consequences of this, why does the Council of State have such a terrible urgency to implement the measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e818	As I said, this leads to better animal welfare. And it's like there won't be any greater density, simply because the requirements for density, i.e. animal density of 36 kilos per square metre – that's what the representative Hansson has probably got into – will be passed on. Sweden has the same rules. In Denmark and the EU, they also allow even more per square metre. So together with Sweden, we're the best in the class there. So I think it's very important that we continue to work for better animal welfare. That is also why it was important, as we increased the ability to drive more, that we also tightened the legislation on animal welfare. As I said, we have done this by both placing two veterinary visits this year instead of one, as it was, and making sure that for those who run poorly, it is in the wallet that they have to step down and lose income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e825	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e839	The starting point for this oral presentation is the post-afternoon look-up before Christmas if possible false base stations and the risk of surveillance. On the basis of these observations, several parties in Stortinget have asked for an oral presentation of the Stortinget in plenary, which I will, of course, comply with. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been an investigation in the matter, and that there is therefore limited information that I as the Council of State can provide on that side of the case. The independent prosecution authority ensures regular investigation and it is the investigation that may reveal whether illegal activities have taken place. There may also be part of the information related to this case complex that I cannot mention in plenary. I will first go through the facts of the matter as I now know them. This is information that can change along the way in the work on the matter further. I would also like to explain in more detail the responsibilities regarding the safety of our mobile networks. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the statement is not limited only to my constitutional responsibility at this point, but the content of the statement on these points is clarified with the Minister for Transport who is the right person. Furthermore, I would like to say something about some measures that have been taken to prevent the illegal monitoring of key societal interests, and finally I would like to address some concrete actions that we will take in the future. A false base station is a technical installation that acts as if it were an ordinary mobile base station. By means of an IMSI prisoner, the identity of the sim card is captured. The operator of the fake base station may thus identify mobile phones that are nearby. The operator of the fake base station can thus gain control of the mobile phones it has hijacked, and intercept calls, read text messages and see some of the data traffic between the mobile phone and the legitimate network. Based on information provided during the Evening Post work on the case, even before it was published, the National Safety Authority conducted investigations using different methods and technical tools. The studies took place between 5 and 14. of December. The issue was discussed in a meeting with the National Security Authority and the Police Security Service on 9 December. It was then agreed to carry out joint measurements. These measurements were carried out by NSM and PST on 12 December, before the Evening Post was published on the same day. Only based on national safety authority measurements, it is assessed that false base stations have been used in the Oslo Centre. The police security service decided to launch an investigation on Sunday 14 December last year. In the investigation, the Police Security Service is assisted by the National Security Authority and the Intelligence Service. The Oslo police district has also launched investigations into the issues of non-governmental affairs and set up its own investigation team in the case. There is close cooperation between the Oslo Police District and the PST during the investigation. The PST coordinates the technical studies. In addition, Oslo Police District has established cooperation with the National Safety Authority via the PST and with the National Technical Communications Authority. On request, the police security service has received a comprehensive base material from the Evening Post. This material, as well as its own collected material, will be processed and analysed, and further investigation has also been carried out. The police security service has stated that it is expected that the investigation will take some time because there is a comprehensive material to be collected and analysed. The prevention and management of adverse events requires interaction between several authorities and private actors. It is essential that this cooperation and cooperation work well, that all parties are well aware of their responsibilities and roles, and that they work well together. This requires operational competence and capacity at the same time as it requires an active attitude of the controllers. As you know, the Ministry of Justice and Security has assigned a coordinating role to social security issues, and in cases where the interaction between different actors is not working properly, the Ministry of Justice and Defence shall ensure that accountability is clarified and pointed out and identify areas where coordination is needed. However, this coordination responsibility does not change the institutional lines of responsibility, where each State Council is constitutionally responsible for social security within its own area of responsibility. In view of this, the Ministry of Justice and Security in the 2015 budget proposal, Part III, Chapter 5, has drawn up an overview to clarify responsibilities in the area of social security. The summary now identifies one overall responsible coordinating department for each area of responsibility. The overall responsible coordinating department shall ensure coordination and the necessary clarification between the actors involved. This overview shows that the Ministry of Transport and its establishment, the National Communications Authority, the former Postal and Telecommunications Authority, is responsible for electronic communications networks and services. Other key public actors in this area are the Emergency Communications and Defence Directorate. The same overview shows that the Ministry of Justice and Security is responsible for ICT security in the civil sector and national civil security. Here it is, among other things. National Security Authority, Police Security Service and Police which are key actors. Based on what has arisen in the media in this matter, with the corresponding comments, it has been tried to create the impression that there are uncertainties about what the various departments and associated businesses are responsible for. I do not think that is the basis for such a claim, but the picture is complicated, and we should always be aware of any need for even better coordination and accountability. I come back to it during the mention of measures. Let me briefly describe the different areas of responsibility and authority. The providers of mobile communications, such as Telenor, NetCom and others, shall ensure the protection of communications, confidentiality, professional secrecy and adequate security and preparedness of the users of the ecosystem under the Ecosystem Act. What is sound safety is a balance between functionality and costs on the one hand and technology and safety on the other. In Norway, safety has weighed heavily in these assessments, and the Norwegian 2G networks, after I have been informed, have the highest level of encryption for GSM today. Nevertheless, the global GSM standard has some inherent vulnerabilities that can be exploited, such as: using such false base stations in combination with IMSI prisoners. The 3G and 4G networks have better security and encryption. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the Department of Transport. National communication authority is an electronic communications supervisory body in Norway and supervises the follow-up by operators to requirements under the eco-nomy law. These requirements shall include, inter alia: contribute to ensuring that users have access to robust, secure and reliable electronic communications networks and services. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the Department of Transport. The National Security Authority is administratively bound by the Ministry of Defence and reports to the Ministry of Justice and Defence on civil matters. The national safety authority is responsible for the follow-up and supervision of the security of information and objects that are protected by the safety law. This is information about objects that need to be protected for the sake of national security or other vital social interests. In addition, the national safety authority shall provide investigative services in this area. NSM supports the Ministry of Justice and Security in the field of ICT security in the civil sector and is the coordinating unit for the management of ICT attacks on societal critical functions. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is in charge of the civil sector. The police security service is responsible for preventing and investigating the intelligence activities of foreign countries against Norway and Norwegian interests. The use of false base stations by foreign countries is thus part of the responsibility of the Police Security Service. The Ministry of Justice and Defence shall be responsible. As far as investigation and prosecution are concerned, the prosecution authority is of course completely independent. The intelligence service shall collect, process and analyse information on foreign intelligence activities against Norway and Norwegian interests. The collection of information on foreign intelligence activities in Norway shall be carried out through or after the consent of the PST. The Ministry of Defence is the Ministry of Defence. The police are responsible for preventing and investigating ICT crime. The police are investigating where criminal acts are suspected in or through the ecosystem, and where there are non-governmental actors, such as drug addicts. organised criminals, who are behind them. The Ministry of Justice and Defence shall be responsible. As far as investigation and prosecution are concerned, the prosecution authority is of course completely independent. As mentioned above, it is essential that cooperation and cooperation between those actors operate well. In the ongoing work on the matter, we will consider whether cooperation is good enough and, where appropriate, initiate action. In connection with the evening post reference, questions have been asked about what the Norwegian authorities have previously done to prevent such monitoring. The police security service reports that in recent years there has been a concern about the interception of mobile telephone traffic by foreign countries, especially targeting politicians and Norwegian decision-making processes. Such listening may take place using different methods, including IMSI and optional equipment. In recent years, both in Oslo and elsewhere in the country, the police security service has carried out long-term technical investigations to investigate whether false base stations are in use. Of course, advanced technical equipment has been used for the studies. The police security service has not revealed false base stations through these demarcated investigations. The studies have shown that there are many sources of error which may indicate abnormal base station traffic. An example of a source of error may be that telecommunications operators adjust the strength of base stations at high network loads in order to maintain good coverage. This may give rise to measurement impacts. Another example of fault sources may be so-called repeaters, which are installed in areas with poor coverage, e.g. inside a building. These repeaters will also be able to make a measurement impact. In addition, in order to prevent and counteract the interception of mobile traffic by foreign countries, police security services have prioritised out-of-court prevention activities and warned against the risk of interception. This has been done, among others. to the government, the departments and party groups on the Stortinget. Furthermore, selected research and education institutions and enterprises are also provided with information and preventive safety advice. National communications authority, which is under the Ministry of Transport, requires and follows up telecommunications companies in accordance with the provisions of the Economs Act relating, inter alia, to: communication protection, confidentiality, security and preparedness. The national communication authority shall coordinate an established meeting place between the Intelligence Service and the security services and the main ecosystem providers for the exchange of classified threat and vulnerability information. Telecoms have their own responsibility for ensuring their infrastructure at all times in accordance with the applicable requirements and the threat aspect in question and for balancing against the costs of the measures. The frequency control by the national communication authority detects and corrects the illegal use of frequencies due to radio amateurs, electrical installations, etc. Frequency monitoring is essentially a reaction force that pulls out when they are informed that a problem has been identified. However, false base stations are designed not to be detected and to interfere as much as possible with traffic in the mobile network. National communication authority informs that none of the mobile operators have reported problems in the networks with fake base stations. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has, at the hearing, sent a proposal to amend the law on police and environmental matters. The proposal is to give the police limited access to prevent the use of electronic communications where necessary to protect life and health or where there are overriding societal considerations, for example to prevent the remote release of a bomb. Furthermore, access to the establishment of mobile zones is proposed in order to identify whether there are units transmitting or receiving signals in the area and to establish mobile zones in very specific cases, such as: kidnapping situations. The government is very concerned about detecting illegal surveillance and protecting the population from illegal surveillance in the future. Security is very important to the government, and it will still have a high priority. I also have great expectations of the work of the respective services on these issues in the future. On the one hand, I would like to mention in the summary that the National Safety Authority, as mentioned above, has carried out several studies in response to the call for proposals of the Evening Post. NSM has submitted its report to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the Police Security Service for further processing. The police security service has, as is well known, launched investigations to investigate whether the data relating to false base stations are illegal intelligence activities for the benefit of foreign countries. The National Security Authority and the Intelligence Service will assist the Police Security Service. Oslo police districts have, as you know, started investigating the case, and the PST and Oslo police districts are working closely together on the investigation. National communication authority established on 16 December last year a working group with participants from the National Communications Authority, NetCom, Telenor, Tele2 and the National Safety Authority. The working group shall look at both network owners’ opportunities to detect false base stations in the networks and more long-term measures to further increase safety. These are common issues on which participants wish to find good solutions. National communication authority manages the team and the national safety authority provides professional advice. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, will set up a working group such as: shall look at interfaces and responsibilities between public operators and private operators, the basis of legal bases and assess the need for greater active monitoring of the mobile networks. The other participants in the working group will be the National Communications Authority, the National Safety Authority, the Police Security Service and the Police Directorate. In addition, I would like to remind you that in the summer of 2014, the government reduced a sample to identify the digital vulnerabilities of society. Vulnerability in critical infrastructure, including electronic communications, must be highlighted in particular. The sample shall assess the impact against the costs and disadvantages of risk mitigation measures as well as the degree of vulnerability with which society should be prepared to live. I assume that the case of possible false base stations will be included as an important case complex in the work of the sample, and it will probably form part of the background to the sample recommendations. The Committee shall deliver its inquiry to the Ministry of Justice and Defence by the end of September 2015. For the sake of order, I would like to recall the responsibility of different authorities and employers in general to protect the communication of their employees in an appropriate way. There are technological devices available which, when used, will help to reduce the risk of being intercepted or otherwise monitored. I am not more concerned with this in this statement. Finally, information from the evening post on possible false base stations has focused attention on a vulnerability that can affect a great many and is very unfortunate. If the evening item’s information is correct, the situation is serious. The government is working specifically to reduce this vulnerability. Nevertheless, we have to recognise that today's situation is such that unless you use appropriate encryption equipment, you have to take into account that others can hear and read what you say and write. This recognition is itself an important part of the prevention work, together with other vulnerability reduction measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e908	In line with Storting’s Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post from each party of up to 5 minutes and a closing post from the member of the government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e913	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for coming here and giving me this statement. The nature of the questions raised by the public is such that one must of course share what it is possible to share the work of the services to prevent and uncover this type of monitoring. This is an important matter. I would also like to express the evening post for doing a thorough journalistic craft, which has seen this case and this discussion on the agenda. With modern technology, it is clear that we have multiple vulnerabilities, and it has long been clear that both authorities and businesses can be vulnerable to surveillance and that there is active intelligence activity. It has both PST, E-service and NSM mediated in its open threat assessments. There are several ways to prevent this from happening. The only way to do it is to make sure that those who can be vulnerable to this type of monitoring are aware of it. It's got one thing to worry about. That information is shared. The other way to prevent this is to actively uncover and prevent actual surveillance, and that's what it seems to have not been done in this case. The details of the work that has been done are the results of the research - one must expect to see what comes out of the research, and the other respect that not everything can be shared publicly. But at least we have to wait and see what results the investigation gives, considering who may be behind these base stations. Clearing up the roles and responsibilities of the various budgets is an important task of the leader. There should be no doubt about who does what, as it might appear to have been the case in this case. I expect and expect that one has and/or establishes good procedures for detecting grey areas that may exist between the etats. This is no less important when one knows that technology will continue to develop and that the potential for monitoring will also continue to develop. Several grey zones can be created, and there must be a routine for how they are set, discovered and preserved, and the political clarifications there. Point 25 of the Gjørv Commission report is important in this context. There they write, among other things: on the PST that they ‘must develop management, organisational culture, work processes’, etc., that it takes better care of the current situation. But here is the important sentence – that for PST it is ‘especially important... to show greater urgency, creativity and willingness to identify new threats’. What I'm quoting now is not necessarily a criticism of the police security service – the details of what they've done and have not done in this specific matter, the Storting doesn't know – but it's a finding that “presumptuousness” and “creativity” are still important and will not become less important in the future. That quote is related to the Police Security Service, but I would like to stress that this is a matter for all the agencies that work with social security. They have to work that way, they have to exhibit that will and creativity, and is it that some of the etats that work with social security feel that they haven't got that signal in a clear way before, then this is to count as a signal: Be creative, find vulnerabilities, ask for political clarification for who is to follow it up. These are issues of a fundamental nature, where it's natural that we go closer to it in a proper way in the follow-up. When it comes to this specific matter, I have a question for the Minister of Justice about rules and procedures and the need for them to adapt today's and future threat images. It has been a working group that has evaluated safety laws. It has doctors in the cards that the security laws will be revised. When the Security Act was created in 2000, the terrain was different than it is today, so my question is: When does one expect it to be revised, and how will one ensure that it is adapted to today's and future threat images? Finally, I refer to the Stortingen Rules of Procedure § 45c, that we can decide whether the distribution should be sent to the Committee for further consideration there, and I suggest it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e932	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the presentation. It elaborates this important matter with information relevant to Stortinget. At the same time, it is important to remember that the case is under investigation, and therefore it is not possible to conclude in the whole case complex now. In addition, it is worth noting the reminder of the Council of State that the case may also contain information that cannot be shared in an open meeting. Nevertheless, there is reason to commend the Council of State for the openness he has provided in this matter today. Digital security is important for society, while technology is vulnerable. This statement will therefore provide a back ground for important issues relating to the balance between digital security, illegal activity and privacy that we are going to deal with in the coming period. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the journalistic work carried out by the Evening Post on this matter. Through thorough and competent craftsmanship, a matter of great interest has been revealed in the country's top elected assembly. It is a serious matter, and it is important that we get to the bottom of it. Then the investigation and the time must show which conclusions can be drawn in this specific case. The review by the Council of State of the responsibility for cybersecurity shows how responsibility has been allocated and gives a good picture of a clear and clear division of labour and responsibilities between state agencies. I also notice that the Council of State informs me that in several cases, during the last few years, both in Oslo and elsewhere in the country, the police security service has carried out long-term technical investigations to investigate whether false base stations are in use. At the same time, the review shows that there are many public agencies that manage their major or minor part of the matter, institutionally divided into three departments. This makes great demands for interaction and coordination. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is drawing out that the government is working on further clarification of the responsibilities. The appointment of the Digital Vulnerability Committee and the creation of a working group, as mentioned in the presentation, are a good start to this work. National threat assessments tell us that the pressure on digital resources and infrastructure is increasing in our country. Digital burglaries, digital surveillance and digital espionage are increasing. Therefore, competence, capacity and coordination are crucial for a relatively small country like ours to meet these advanced challenges. It means, in my opinion, that today's division of responsibilities between the military and civil sectors needs to be reviewed in this field. It also means that cooperation between the private and public sectors needs to be strengthened in order to have rapid and good access to information and competences. At the same time, there must be no doubt as to who owns the crisis when serious incidents occur in the digital space. We need to assess briefly a total defence structure in which society's overall resources can contribute to increased security in the digital space. Finally, I support the proposal to forward the statement to the Justice Committee for further work, which is, of course, limited to the ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e958	Like the previous speakers, let me thank the Minister of Justice for the statement, which was a good account, although not all matters are open to the Minister of Justice to comment on as of today. The matter has not been fully investigated, and it is not safe to share all the information with Stortinget. But on the basis of what has been explained, I am very pleased with what has now become clear – division of tasks, division of responsibilities, etc. The revelations of the evening post are potentially very serious. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice, the police and the security authorities are taking this very seriously. It was quite clear to the Minister of Justice in his statement. At the same time, it's important to remember that we haven't got all the cards on the table yet. We need to give the police and the safety authorities the opportunity to conduct a proper and good investigation before we can conclude on exactly what we are dealing with. I have full confidence that the investigation will equip us with the tools we need to make a decision on the right facts. The kind of base station that we're talking about here might be both mobile and the size of a small suitcase. In other words, this type of potential monitoring may be very difficult to detect. On a general level, therefore, good counter-intelligence in these cases will often focus on taking any backers rather than hunting the surveillance equipment itself. An up-to-date threat picture and a good overview of hostile environments will therefore be a response to this type of monitoring. In addition, it is important to ensure that key decision-makers have communication equipment that is adequately protected from potential monitoring. It's also a responsibility for us as magnification, as body and institution, to look at this and have this threat picture with us. It is an extremely difficult task to prevent the configuration of base stations once the threat has materialized. It is therefore essential that safety authorities have a proactive role and a good overview of potentially harmful environments. In addition, exposed actors themselves have a responsibility to ensure that they communicate in a way that makes it difficult for important information to be diverted. The investigation will give us clarity in the situation, and it is therefore important that we wait for this before jumping to conclusions. I have full confidence in the Minister of Justice's handling of this matter. There have been some questions about liability. I believe that the statement now made by the Minister of Justice well showed how responsibility has been shared out today. I am very pleased with what the Minister of Justice has briefed the Stortinget on – what work had already begun, what to do after these revelations, and what to do in the future. I think that's very good. I look forward to the further follow-up, in line with the Minister of Justice himself outlined in his statement. This, of course, has the full support of the Progress Party. Finally, I registered that there was a proposal for the presentation to be submitted to the Justice Committee for possible follow-up. Of course, I have no problem doing so, in line with the committee's chairman, who is also in line with Storting's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e979	I also want to start by thanking you for a good deal, and I also have the full understanding that the Minister of Justice has to assess what information can be given in the public space. It is serious what the Evening Post has mapped, as is now publicly known, that there is a network of fake base stations, established by actors that are unknown to most people. It doesn't just have to be an actor behind it, it can be more, and they don't have to know each other. The conclusion is that our mobile phones can be exposed to espionage, without knowing what's going on, without knowing who's getting the information. It's my experience that there's a strong awareness among the agencies that have security responsibilities, right when it comes to mobile surveillance. Nor is it a surprise that this kind of business is going on. However, it is surprising the extent that has been uncovered. The specific and detailed mapping that the Evening Post provides here is alarming. As Per Anders Madsen in the Evening Post writes: ‘Everything indicates an activity in addition to the temporary mass deportation that Norwegian police can carry out in certain situations fully legally. And that professional actors are behind." We also know that the information you can get from these base stations can be combined with interception. We've been familiar with the last few years that this kind of wiretap has happened also from some countries we're working with. The responsibility of the national security body is to prevent surveillance. They prioritize according to the Security Act, and shall ensure the lines that are classified as security. I think there's reason to think about whether the areas and the lines that are set up today should be expanded, and that's what I expect NSM will do, without expecting a response to it today. National authority for communication is responsible for the rest of the network. PST is responsible for investigation if there are leading powers, Oslo Police District if there are ‘common criminals’. This is why both the Oslo Police District and the PST have launched research. That's good. Monitoring is illegal and must be stopped. But as the Minister of Justice himself points out here: it is a challenge with such a fragmented responsibility, and I am therefore pleased that it is a work for even more to clarify who is responsible. We have now focused on base stations and mobile monitoring, but we know that when it comes to WiFi networks, there is also a very high risk of monitoring. What I particularly want to challenge the Minister of Justice is that it has become so simple, so available and so cheap to monitor that in many ways it is very demanding and costly to help prevent this. The Minister of Justice himself points out that encryption is something that can happen, and the importance of being aware that we are being monitored. But this is actually also a priority debate from a cost perspective. I also assume that the selection that is currently working on this will look further. I am therefore pleased that there will now be further work in the Justice Committee, and support it. But at the same time, I think that the very selection to look at the societal digital vulnerability and the work they're doing becomes very important with the new information that the Evening Post has now given us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1003	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice for his briefing. Possible illegal monitoring of Norwegian citizens is always serious, and it is no less serious if there is a possible illegal monitoring of people and the environment representing vital social interests. The revelations in the evening post before Christmas in 2014 were thus important and also alarming. The visual accompaniment was for several reasons. Here we had to do with fake base stations outside of Stortinget, the government offices and the Prime Minister's Office, as well as a couple of other places, but we also had to do with reactions from Norwegian security agencies that the justice politicians here at Stortinget could get bad food into Christmas. Liability pulverisation can add up to a short sum. The police security service, the national security body and what has now been renamed National Communications Authority – formerly the Post and Telecommunications Authority – communicated the importance of preventive work, but no one stood up and said that they themselves could have a responsibility to uncover such surveillance as this. Now I understand that the security authorities and our intelligence can't expand everything they do, and everything they don't do, but it's an advantage if they do what they should, and that they communicate in such a way that it's said that they individually and collectively have control. Even if we don't know the details of what the security authorities have done and have not done, and should be careful to use the very greatest words, we have a preliminary leftover impression. The impression, as the Minister of Justice said in his speech, has not been attempted in the media, but it has been created on the basis of answers and reactions from these authorities themselves. PST said e.g. first that such base stations are not something they should be looking for, and that the most important thing is that we politicians teach us not to tell sensitive things on open lines. Later, however, they have chosen to accept the provision of basic data from the Evening Post, and they have, in addition to the Oslo Police District, opened investigations. That's good. At the moment, this is a matter we don't know the scope of. The highest political responsibility for this is that of the Minister of Justice, and therefore it is important for the Grand Duchy that he came here today to do the right thing. What is important to look at in the future is the interaction and division of responsibilities between the different state actors, such as the government. The PST, the Intelligence Service and the National Insurance Body. Is there a need for a careful review of the roles and responsibilities? Is there competence or clearer mandate missing? The Minister of Justice was concerned about some of this when he referred to possible actions and things to happen, and I look forward to seeing the outcome of that work. I also support the transfer to the Justice Committee for follow-up there. Finally, I want to decorate the work The evening post has done. Even if we don't like the case – this is a bad thing – it's especially important that she came. Hopefully, that helps to make us better for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1022	I would also like to start by thanking the evening post, thanks for having editorials that have both the capacity and the competence to dig up such things. That's why we need a free and open press with so many resources in the editorials that such jobs are done. Swallow if I agree with the representative Klinge that this is not a good news, it is that it is actually a news, good for Norwegian democracy and the way we govern our country. Then I would also like to thank the Council of State for coming to Stortinget to explain. I think that's a good idea. He gave a very thorough and good account, which was not as alarming as the news picture might have been the first days, when his institutions were to respond. The revelations that came are very serious. They are serious for Norwegian politics and Norwegian interests. They are also serious for Norwegian business. But all people who have a certain responsibility, or who possess information of great value to others, should not be naive in their own communication. What might have been the greatest guardian for me was that through the way these base stations are organized, you also collect information from all the individuals who have never asked to be public, who have never received e-mails from the security authorities about how to protect their information, and who are included in the drag sucker. The people who just go past the Storting or past the Prime Minister's residence are allowed to be naive, they are allowed to think that their communication is not interesting. When we see the increasing intervention of the new technology in our lives and the increasing part of our lives, this gives perspectives on what one can gather of information about individuals, which means that we have to think through how we ensure not only Norwegian business and Norwegian politics, but the privacy of all Norwegian citizens who walk in our streets. I understand that it is not possible to say that this should be impossible. The goal of Norwegian policy must be to make it more difficult. It must be really hard to do that, and it must be easy to be discovered when you try it. And it must be clear who is responsible for discovering it when it is done. So I assume that none of them are «ours». By doing so, I believe that we have clear judicial control relating to the type of monitoring of Norwegian citizens, which is also checked by the EOS Committee. By the way these stations were rigged, so much additional information is gathered that I find it a little difficult to imagine a Norwegian court that had agreed to collect all the information related to Stortinget on behalf of the Norwegian State. That's why it's important to make sure that we have the skills to take those who practice this, and that we also have an EOS committee that has the competence to do that. Then we might have to see if we have the capability of technological competence at all levels that we need, and that we have it in all the units that are going to take care of this. With the major technological developments that are also taking place internationally – we saw that the evening post did not use very advanced equipment to find these – we must have units in our hands that are at the height and that have their priorities clear when they are going to reveal this. The representative Leirstein talked about environments with damage potential. This is not just a fight against crime, is it? Some of us might guess at some of the environments with a certain potential for damage in this area, without it being the big discovery. But it should not be so easy to do it either. Those with great resources and opportunities shall also be at risk of being disclosed by Norwegian control authorities in this area. Then there must be a clear responsibility for who is going to do that job. I guess that's what worried us after the media opinions on the first few days of the case. Furthermore, the Left supports the transmission to the Committee. But we also hope that the Council of State will contribute to as much transparency as possible and the widest possible involvement of the Storting in the development of the case further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1045	I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good and tidy statement, and – I would like to add – a brief statement. It's positively meant in this context. Now I've probably got the self-image of the Evening Post growing up far beyond my head, but I still want to acknowledge the journalistic work that's behind this. What we've been discussing now is going to be a recurring and increasing theme in the public debate in Norway and in most countries in the decades to come. I think we can feel very safe about that. This is because it is part of an image of a development towards increased use of monitoring and recording as a method of generalization. Monitoring by authorities of people, authorities and businesses in other countries, private surveillance – as many of the intelligence environments stress that there is probably a bigger problem in Norway today than monitoring from other countries – but also the use of registration and surveillance by authorities, human information, has increased sharply in recent years and decades. I'm happy with the statement we got from the Minister of Justice, but there are some questions that I don't think we're done with, and I want to go up three of them in the rest of my article here. The first one is related to the discovery of what has happened. Of course, it's the police investigation that's going to test it, not the Storting. But in the light of how well the authorities were informed in advance, and that it was even carried out – if I understood correctly – own investigations on the same day, 12 December, I have to say that the feedback from the PST in the first instance is in a somewhat strange light. But in an even more strange light, it seems to me that research was not started until three days after the public disclosures, especially in the light of the extensive knowledge leading up to the authorities. Let us hope that this has not led to important loss of exams or made it harder to clarify what has actually happened. I did not think it – even if it has to do with the investigation – is possible to have such a central question hanged. Number two is the question of who is responsible and how one coordinates. I agree with the representative Klinge that it actually stands out as very unclear in the back of the media who is responsible. The media may have some of the debt that it appears to be unclear, but I think some of the comments from the various etats at least contributed to it. Let us hope that the Minister of Justice – as I have understood him – thinks that it is essentially clear. At least I am very happy that he has seen a work going on to see if it is clear enough who is responsible, and whether the cooperation works well enough. But I think there's a need to look even more closely at the soundness of this, because we're talking about the distribution of responsibilities between different public agencies. But it's true, as it was said up here, that the relationship between public and private can be an important theme to go into when it comes to monitoring in the years that come. I am also open to the continued assessment of the relationship between civil and military authorities. So I think there must be a broader process in the years to come, around it. Point three is the balance between security and freedom, between control and the privacy or the integrity of the individual. There's a balance I think we're increasingly going to discuss for decades to come, and there I'm deeply concerned about the trend of the little critters who, individually, don't look so problematic, but who, in sum, are shifting the balance that we've experienced over several years. Therefore, both me and SV are very skeptical to, among other things. the amendments to the police laws and the echo-movs that are now out there, one that would thus open up the possibility that in certain cases the police will be given authority to, among others. establishing mobile zones without judicial control. It also includes a broader debate, and therefore I will end by saying that one of the most important things we could do in my view was to create a broader Commission or another selection, outside the authorities themselves, which is going through the situation of monitoring: how the individual person is exposed to it – we politicians can protect us more easily than they are – what images we see in the private, in the state, and how cooperation and distribution of responsibilities work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1066	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a clear explanation. Whether mistakes have been made by the authorities in this matter, it is too early to draw any conclusions. There is clearly a problem with the backward reaction that came from some offices when the Evening Post revelations were first presented, but I look forward to something both the Council of State and the committee reading coming back to. What is important – in addition to what has been said by many speakers here today – is to be aware of two things. One is that digital surveillance, or the capture of digital data, is a phenomenon that it's not going to be any smaller, it's going to be more of it. As long as we all go around with increasingly advanced information communication systems in our pockets, and make us increasingly dependent on them, this is a phenomenon – as the representative Solhjell, among other things, pointed out – that is going to increase very rapidly in scope. The fact that it is the Evening Post that made these revelations — to the extent that they are revelations — illustrates the second point, namely that authorities will never be able to deal with this whole problem. We won't be able to monitor ourselves out of such a situation as this is an example of. Operators other than the safety bodies of the authorities are at least as important in this process. The work of the evening post illustrates the fact that not only is it useful to have a strong and free press, civil society itself must be involved in this work in a completely different way. This case therefore illustrates that we are at a crossroads when we are going to discuss the follow-up to this alleged, probable illegal monitoring: what are we going to focus on? Of course, we need to sort out the work and responsibilities of the State safety authorities, but we need to look at the basic reason why it is possible to operate that kind of monitoring. Then there are two key chords that I think should be given weight, and which I hope both the committee reading and, in particular, the selection of digital vulnerability will focus on. One is encryption. That means encryption from source, from my cell phone, from all the millions of users that are only in Norway. The second is the use of software that we have a possible control over. Today we have a rather naive relationship with the security mechanisms of the mobile phone we have in our pocket, or in the computers we have here in Stortinget. They are all – or at least extremely large – based on software with closed source codes from a very small number of manufacturers who say that they are safe, while we know that they work with certain countries – perhaps very many – security authorities. The alternative is e.g. putting much greater emphasis on open source software, which many users will be able to follow, contribute to the development of and control of. The Greens believe that focusing on this part of digital security will be very important when we now have to take care of the misstep it will be to believe that increasing monitoring on a broad basis – and therefore the interventions in the lives of businessless individuals it will involve – is the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1082	Let me first thank you for a very good and reflected debate with a very good understanding of the problem and understanding of the situation. These are, as many have been involved, complex issues. I think the representative Solhell is quite right when he says that these are issues that will arise in many contexts in the future, also because – as many people have been involved – the technology that can be used to monitor others is cheap, and it is available. It's demanding to be completely safe. That is why I also think the representative Skei Grande reflected very well, as she said that the goal cannot be that this should be impossible, but it must be really difficult. It must also be the aim of the work to be done in the future. I also think it is important to stress what the committee chairman was about, that prevention can be done in several ways, and she herself reflected on two. One is that one provides information to those who are vulnerable to surveillance — it is a track that PST has followed closely — and the other is that one is actively working to detect such illegal surveillance. As I explained in my post, the PST has also done so, both inside and outside Oslo, through its methods. So it's not common for the PST to be as open as they are in this context, but I think it's important, because it was kind of made up of the impression that no one had done any investigations by the authorities, prior to what the evening post did. But that's why it was also important in the presentation to find out that it's actually done in the area of responsibility that PST has. Then, of course, you can discuss whether that is good enough. It is part of the follow-up work that needs to be done now, both to look at the division of responsibilities and how to monitor – or better monitor – the mobile network as such. The chairperson of the Committee also had a question of the Safety Act, which is now under work. There is considerable work and some changes to the Safety Act may need to be made quickly, while also taking into account the complexity of this picture, by allowing a person to return to further changes to the Safety Act over a slightly longer period of time. It is a work conducted by the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence. So I'm very concerned that our services are going to be forward. They're going to be on-going, and they're going to be creative. The technological development we have makes monitoring – and actually digital attack methods – almost a kind of all-man's life. It must also demand creativity and momentum from our security services. Therefore, it is also important in the further work we are doing now, both through the two working groups that have been reduced, and in the digital vulnerability committee, to see if there are other types of border crossings that should apply. One thing is whether responsibility today is clear. The question is whether responsibility is as it should be, or whether there should be adjustments. That's why the focus that the Evening Post has put through its articles is very important, really completely independent of what the investigation ultimately shows, because these problems are most real anyway. That is why I think it is very good with the job that the evening post has done. I believe that there are good measures that have been implemented on the one hand before this series of articles came, and on the other hand they have been implemented on the other. I must say, I am very pleased that the statement is being forwarded to the Committee for further consideration, for this is a problem that really deserves the attention of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1101	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Justice and Security on false base stations be forwarded to the Justice Committee – and considered adopted. All representatives are now called in because a record has to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-01-07.ana.ud279e1255	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like.
