ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e26	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e29	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself to maintain and strengthen the eight regional state archives as own institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e46	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Vidar Helgesen, Solveig Horne and Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e53	My question goes to the State Council Helgesen, first of all to Helgesen as the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office. On Monday, a broad majority of the Grand Duchy adopted amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The majority took responsibility for enabling the flow of asylum seekers to be managed, in particular over Storskog, but also in general, both to ensure that those who do not qualify for protection are able to return quickly, and to ensure the right of asylum for people to flee from war and repression – those who really need the right of residence – and to protect the institution of asylum. The situation requires, as we know, both action, management and rapid but responsible action. But in the debate on Monday, a representative of the government party, the Christian Tybring-Gjedde, spoke on the situation as follows: ‘I see a country over which we have no control in part.’ What kind of signal does the party representative send out, not just to us in the main hall, but to the entire Norwegian people – that the government and the Stortinget have no control? Does the Office of the State Council of Helgesen and the Prime Minister share this consideration and these views? What does the Council of State think about Tybring-Gjedde's description of this situation after two years in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e67	I'm not going to go into descriptions of the statement of the said magnification representative, but just pay attention to saying that the government is working hard to ensure that we handle this situation in a good way. This is a difficult situation for Norway. We attach great importance to the fact that if we are to maintain the institution of asylum, if we are to ensure protection for those who are entitled to protection, we must also be able to facilitate the rapid and effective return of those who come here without the requirement of protection. It is part of ensuring good handling. It's part of the work based on the control that we have, and that we exercise as a government. Let me stress that as Chief of Staff at the Prime Minister's office, I am responding to the Prime Minister, so I want to pay attention to the fact that, as a government, we are all concerned with ensuring, on the one hand, the management of the challenge of the influx, and, on the other hand, ensuring border control and ensuring that the return systems are effective. What some big business representatives say on this occasion, you get to confront the big business representatives, not the government representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e74	I would like to thank you for your answer. I will not accuse the Council of State of discharge, but it may be interesting to know what he thinks about this kind of double communication – whether it has become common among the government parties these two years. It may also be interesting to hear what he thinks about statements that we do not have control, or that the government does not have control of the country as such, in general – if I perceive Tybring-Gjedde right – but not least regarding asylum inflows and the Norwegian handling of refugees, asylum applications and border controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e81	I find that in the government there is an overall pressure to deal with this situation. I note that in this Chamber, among the parties in the Stortinget, there is a broad consensus on the essential key actions and a good dialogue on precisely that. I also note that in European cooperation Norway is closely involved as a Schengen member in the discussions on common European solutions, and we make important contributions to European cooperation, because on the part of the government we have a recognition, which is shared by a clear majority in Stortinget, that this is a challenge that needs to be addressed in European cooperation. In all of these areas, we have control, and in all of these areas, we have a broad consensus in the Storting on what is necessary to maintain control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e86	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kåre Simensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e89	I would like to follow up on Mr Nybakk's question and this time contact Mr Helgesen, Minister for European Affairs. It will be of great interest to know how he assesses the message of the Government Party, and not least how it will be received from our friends in Europe when we are constantly talking about solidarity in the context of the difficult situation Europe is now in, and the message from one of the government parties and a central representative there is: ‘We were not given any responsibility to manage global developments; we were given responsibility to manage Norway.’ Then my question to the European Minister is: Is such a signal convenient? Despite what the Council of State says about us being together in Europe, we get this kind of communication from one of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e99	I have the great pleasure of reporting directly back from the EEA Council, the highest body in the EEA, which took place in Brussels yesterday, and migration and the Syria crisis were important themes in the political dialogue that took place in the EEA Council. There was a message unsolicited and clear from the EU side: a great deal of gratitude to Norway for the efforts we are making. It is true that no country has contributed more to the EU resettlement programme than Norway. This concerns our contribution to the EU relocalisation programme. This concerns our contribution to the Frontex operations in the Mediterranean, both in the central Mediterranean and in the eastern Mediterranean. Here we have made important contributions that are valued. Then there is a political debate in all European countries on the challenges here, but it is therefore the government's handling and support from a broad majority of national parliaments that is crucial, and we are very pleased that there is such broad support for the handling in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e106	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e109	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased with the feedback coming from Europe, because I believe that in the difficult situation we are in, it is absolutely necessary that cooperation in Europe works well, that one jointly takes care of the large number of refugees coming, and that it is not that some countries have to take all the burden alone. That is what I expect the Council of State to work on in its meetings around Europe. To follow up the main question: I am pleased that the Council of State underlines that the government has full control, but then it is also tempting to ask if the Council of State believes that one now has the tools you need, when the Stortinget adopted on Monday all the proposals that the government has promoted in the urgent proposition that came Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e119	I would like to say that it is good that there is a broad understanding of the need for joint European action here. One of the messages from our side – among others. in Brussels yesterday – it was necessary for the solidarity needed in Europe here not only to be communicated at the meeting tables but to be implemented in practice. There are several European countries that need to set up in this effort. Norway is doing a lot, other countries are doing a lot, but too many countries are not doing enough. It is an important message from the government of European cooperation. This is a situation that evolves. We are pleased that there has been agreement in Stortinget on new ways of dealing with this situation. What will lie ahead in time, in a situation that evolves so quickly, is not possible to say anything clearly about it at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e128	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e131	At the EU Summit 15-16. October was effective return weighted as decisive. It was concluded that the implementation of the Return Directive will be explored by EU countries and that during the year a special return office will be set up within the framework of Frontex. It was also a desire to extend the mandate of Frontex in the case of return, by enabling the Agency to facilitate joint return operations on its own initiative and to have a strengthened role in obtaining travel documents on return. Can the Council of State tell what is the government's attitude to extending the mandate to Frontex?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e138	What is now being discussed in the EU is a number of aspects of the management of the migration and refugee crisis. We are among those countries that have good and effective return arrangements. In European discussions we refer to our handling, and we refer to the importance of good return arrangements. We also have cooperation with Frontex in this area – certain returns take place in cooperation with Frontex. We have been willing in the debate on strengthening Frontex to look at it, willing to contribute to the strengthening of Frontex. But the individual elements are under discussion, and it is too early to say what will be the conclusions of these discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e147	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e150	We now have a rapid treatment of the Foreign Affairs Act to remedy the situation in Storskog, so that we get a faster rejection of obvious groundless asylum seekers, while at the same time ensuring that those who need protection and need asylum can get it. But this is a problem that applies not only to Storskog; this concerns the entire external border of Schengen. My question will then be: how are the decisions now being taken by the Grand Duchy coordinated with the rest of the Schengen countries, and how does the Council of States see the need to ensure the external border of Schengen better, while at the same time being able to protect those who need asylum, while at the same time being able to maintain the visa-free, open travel option within Schengen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e157	Firstly, external border control is a prerequisite for maintaining free movement within the Schengen area. That's the whole starting point. It is then that external border control – as the Schengen countries have decided to be the individual countries with the external border responsibility to enforce, with the assistance of Frontex where necessary – is a model that is not problematic in terms of asylum law. Border control is necessary, and when border control is – and must be – more effective, it is not in order to undermine the right to asylum. This is – in the case of Hungary, for example. – nothing illegal by setting up a fence. You can ask the question whether that is politically wise. It is crucial whether it undermines the right of asylum. From the Norwegian side, we are responsible for the border in the north on behalf of the Schengen area, and we are dealing with this, without the assistance of Frontex.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e162	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e165	In particular, there are two reasons why the handling of the increased arrivals of asylum has become so difficult. One is that there is a lack of European cooperation in practice, including: on stamping passports, so that there are now very many asylum seekers in the Schengen area that we do not know who is or where. The second is the government's lack of will and ability to see what would happen, and rigging preparedness at the right time to receive many more asylum seekers. Was it then that the European Minister did not notice earlier that the number of refugees entering Europe across the Mediterranean increased dramatically over the spring, where we also sent ships to rescue them? And if he saw it: what was the reason why the government didn't do like the Red Cross, who put down crisis losses in August and rigged an apparatus that was able to accept these earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e172	The increased influx into Europe this year is based on last year's experience, as there was also an increased influx. This has increased over a few years, so it has not come as a surprise that there has been an increase. But then there has been communication from European governments, there has been a critical underfunding of the activities of UN and humanitarian organisations in the neighbourhoods – several things have contributed to the increase being greater than anyone could have predicted. It has been on the government's map before the summer that this was a challenge, but the extent of the challenge nobody could see. And in the proceedings we have based ourselves on what the professional authorities have put up with predictions. So evolution has gone far beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e177	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e181	My question goes to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Solveig Horne. As the responsible State Council for what became a record high settlement of refugees in the municipalities in 2014, the Council of State has stressed that settlement is a priority area for this government, and in particular for housing children. In his statement to the Stortinget on 13 October on the refugee situation around the Mediterranean and in Europe, Prime Minister Erna Solberg called for an effort in which the people also set up foster parents for lone minors who come to the country. Among other things, she said:\t\t You ‘If there’s one thing I want, it’s that the spirit of hard work in the population will also lead to more people volunteering for child protection. If we can get more minor asylum seekers in foster homes and fewer in institutions, it will be better for integration and give children a better and safer start to their new lives. Here people really have an opportunity to make an important difference." This was a call to which the Christian People's Party of course joined completely, and our party leader Knut Arild Hareide also praised this initiative. But at the same time, we know that foster homes are long. As of 31 August 2015, a total of 406 children were waiting to be accommodated in foster homes, 282 of which had been waiting for over six weeks. So my questions to the Council of State are: What does the Council of State think it is wise to use immediately to secure a home for all these children who need a home? And: how will she initiate this effort that has been initiated, and take care of the popular commitment to help get ahead of work to secure a safe home for all these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e197	It is an important theme that the representative addresses here, and it is important that the lonely minors move to a municipality and start their lives there. Lone minor refugees residing in a municipality are placed in foster homes, in housing communities or on shelters with follow-up. And the assessment of the actions to be taken by individual children needs to be considered in relation to the needs of individual children. Today, 37 municipalities have agreed to settle for single minors under 15 years of age, while there may be foster homes for lone minors in all the municipalities of the country. We are now actively working on a campaign, and the effort the representative is asking for, it's there. I'm very happy that we now see a great commitment from families that sign up to become foster families. There are now 30,000 people who have visited the Bufeta website for foster homes.no, about 10,000 in a normal week. There are record numbers coming to Bufetat's meetings, and they want to be foster homes. We have also started intensive training — with a slightly shorter duration for those foster homes who want to do so — because it is also important that foster homes are approved and trained for this important measure. So it's up to the individual municipality to decide if they want to settle single minors. We have probably seen some municipalities say no, although there are families in the municipality who want to be foster homes. Therefore, Bufetat and IMDi have encouraged the municipalities to accept lone minors, and we also want several municipalities to be able to give prior consent and say yes to the families who are ready to become a home for the lone minors who need a home to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e206	It is true that 37 municipalities have said yes, for the time being, to settle single minor asylum seekers, but 37 out of over 400 municipalities are very small. And there are now concerns and information that single minor asylum seekers – from 0 to 15 years of age and also from 15 to 18 years of age – remain in reception for too long because the municipalities refuse, and the reason for their refusal is the economic consequences that they see coming. These are also concerns that we get from the guards to these children. So one thing is what the IMFI is doing, but what does the government itself think to do? As I started with, there was a record high settlement in 2014, for which the Council of State has taken the initiative, but what will the initiative of the Council of State now be towards the municipalities that point to the financial burdens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e215	I am very pleased that the government in the additional number that we have promoted has added a further NOK 100 000 to the municipalities that live in lone minors. I fully agree with the representative that the most important thing we can do now is to get the lonely minors living in a municipality. There's a lot of costs of having them at a care center, and it's not there at the care centers they're going to start their lives; it's out in a municipality. That is why the government, with the Prime Minister at the head, has also encouraged several families to take the initiative to be foster homes, to open their homes to the young people and the children who need it. And I am very happy that we are now – with the campaign that Bufetat has launched, and with the fact that there are several people who have joined us – looking forward to having more people live. Then I'm familiar with the local authorities' efforts because of the economic situation. The municipalities today have 80 pst covered. the costs of lone minors in the area of child protection. In addition, the government has increased the special grant, and we have added a further $100,000 to the special grant for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e224	It opens for follow-up questions – first Marie Liones Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e227	It's a huge public commitment to the serious situation we're in. In Stavanger, over the past week, there have been several meetings where hundreds of people have met, both non-governmental organisations and individuals who want to contribute to the situation we are now in. Only at the meeting that concerned those who wanted to become foster parents did 200 people meet. Kjetil Aas, an adviser in foster care, says that he has never seen such an encounter before at a similar meeting. He goes on to say that there are children under the age of 15, most of whom are 14 years old, but there are also children under the age of 10 without their parents. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how can we ensure that the engagement is kept, that these are quickly assessed as foster parents, so that children do not wait unnecessarily long for a family?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e236	Yeah, it's a popular commitment, which is amazing. Buffetat reports a record attendance across the country at the information meetings we have, and there are record numbers who report their interest in becoming foster homes. That is why we have also started intensive training on these, because it is important that foster families receive training and are approved as foster families. So we know that the recruitment process takes some time, but at the same time there are now several families that are approved and ready to become foster homes. Then it is important to stress that Bufetat is responsible for housing single minors, but we cannot therefore oblige the municipalities to accept single minors. All we can do is encourage the municipalities to take advantage of the popular commitment that is out there and let the families that are now willing to become foster parents get that chance, so that we can create more homes for the children who quickly need a home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e243	Heidi Greni - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e246	The Council of State calls for stronger municipal efforts to respond to lonely minors. This applies to those under the age of 15 for whom child protection is the responsibility and to those between the age of 15 and 18 for whom the UDI is responsible in reception. I think the municipalities are set to make an effort, but it assumes that the conditions are right for it. It is not useful to appeal to the municipalities to receive lone minors and at the same time to send the bill for the task they will do for national authorities. Unfortunately, it is far too much today. Governments call for foster home placement. Is the Council of State doing a good enough job from Buffetat recruiting foster parents? Are there good enough conditions for people who dare to take on this responsible task and give good enough conditions to the municipalities that say yes to these foster homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e253	The size granted 5 million. kr extra for a campaign for the recruitment of foster homes. After that campaign, we have received record numbers of dedicated families who want to be foster homes. It's an important job. I would like to stress that the municipalities have today refunded 80 pst. the costs incurred by them for the protection of children. This applies to those under the age of 15 and those over the age of 15. As a resident, I have given priority to single minors when we are going to live, so that we can settle them quickly. In addition to the 80 pst. the government increased the special grant for the current year and for the following year by 25 million. kr. In the additional number, we suggest an extra NOK 100 000 per person if they settle beyond that limit. So it's economic for the municipalities. The conditions for foster parents follow the usual rates for other foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e262	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e266	It has to be opened up to think alternately about settlement. Several actors who are very active have shown an offensive attitude in this regard. It is also linked to, for example: the recruitment of foster homes. There is a great will among people to be part of and contribute. In the alternative way of thinking, the Left wants one to establish SOS children's cities for single minors, as we see in several European countries. It might have been interesting to hear whether the Council of State agrees and is open to such an assessment as the Left stands in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e271	I am familiar with the model that SOS children's cities have, and I myself have visited SOS children's cities outside Bergen. They have one foster home location in Norway, but this is about opening up to more people. It's a very good model, and it's something that we're in good contact with SOS children's cities about to see if there can be a model for foster home placement in the municipalities. As we have also said in the supplementary number, we are going to investigate other housing models for the lone minors, and it is up to the municipalities whether they will settle for single minors. But using the model for SOS children's cities, which is clearly a good example, we have to see if we can do more of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e276	Sonja Mangt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e279	Recruitment of foster homes and SOS children’s cities are important measures, but also the municipality’s economy. The municipalities today receive a refund of 80 p.m. There is one of the things that makes many municipalities stop living, we have received feedback on. Has the Council of State considered increasing the amount or other measures that make municipalities more home?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e284	I record that in the budget of the Stoltenberg II government there was 10 pst. reduction in the previously 100 pst refund scheme. The government decided in 2014 to decrease to 80 pst. reimbursement to municipalities with child-restraint costs. But in addition, the Storting increased the special grant by approx. 10 pst., so the municipalities indirectly cover 90 pst. the cost of child protection for the lone minors. In addition, the government has increased the special grant to single minors, both for the current year and for the next year, in addition to the 100 000 extras that municipalities now receive if they settle several single minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e291	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e294	On Monday, there was a letter from the government, together with the KS, asking all the municipalities of the country to settle 18,000 refugees in 2016. The letter states that the UDI lights up 30,000 new reception points to meet the need. Municipalities are now increasingly encouraged to establish their own reception. It is said in the letter, which has been sent with the management of the KS, that there is great will from the municipalities and civil society to stand up for the refugees, and that the government is grateful for it. I agree with the Prime Minister that the municipalities are doing a good job of settling and integrating refugees. At the same time, the need increases, and it is important that all municipalities – small and large – participate in the work. This costs. Local government expenditure on housing and integration shall be covered by direct government grants and not by the framework transfers, as is covered by the other services provided to municipalities. It is a fact that municipalities have more expenditure than they are covered for. This applies both to the host municipality grant for asylum recipients, for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible, and to the integration grant for which the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is responsible. Independent calculations show that the integration grant covers approx. 90 pst. of the average costs of the municipalities. The Council of State shares the conclusions of the Calculation Committee, which shows that the municipalities only have 90 pst covered. the costs of integration? And if that is the case, why is there not a proposal for better funding now that we have such an extraordinary need to increase the municipal settlement of refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e303	I want to give praise to the municipalities, because they have done a historic settlement effort in the last two years. So this year we've been able to settle for 34 pst. more than what we did in 2014 and 2014 was a good year. The situation we're facing now requires municipalities to live more than they've been doing this year, and it's going to be a challenge for them. There is now a letter from IMDi requesting that the municipalities have to settle more people. About 18,000 people need to live next year, so in the 18,000 there's about 18,000 people. 4 400 single minors, in addition to the 3,000 Syrian quota refugees that the Stortinget has decided to settle. Today the municipalities are covered by 90 pst. of their costs. But this isn't just about housing, it's about the integration work that individual municipalities also do. The municipalities that are good at integration, which are able to get them out quickly in education or work after the two years of introductory programmes, are also allowed to keep that money. There are several municipalities now doing plus integration because they're good at this work. There is an effort that we need to intensify in order to make more municipalities more successful in integrating work, so that each refugee can participate and contribute, use his resources and become a resource outside the municipality and not a cost in other budgets. The 90 pst is a computational sample. The government’s efforts in recent years have increased the integration grant by more than 300 million. kr, the coverage has not been so high since 2009. In addition, we know that the municipalities report that the challenge is housing, and that is why I am very pleased that in several areas the government has also increased the grant of the House Bank so that it is easier to receive grants for rental housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e312	In the government's supplementary number to the State budget, proposals were made to raise the rates of the host municipality grant for residents in reception by 20 p.m. The Prime Minister, in his letter to the municipalities, points out that increased settlement is essential to ease the pressure on the reception apparatus and to give the individual refugee a good start. I am pleased that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion proposes to increase the integration grant for lone minor asylum seekers living in 2016 by NOK 100 000, but there is a great need beyond that. The government has announced that it will present a major communication on integration policy in the spring of 2016. Will the Council of State ensure a broad review of cooperation with the municipalities on the conditions of residence, including the rates of the integration grant? There is also reason to wonder whether the increase in the integration grant for single minors is going to be a one-off measure that will only apply in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e319	Increase in the integration grant is something we need to get back to in the ordinary budgetary process. I'm glad we've started to increase the integration grant now for two consecutive years. It's historically loud. The municipalities will have 90 pst covered. Of the expenses they have and the municipalities that are good, they also keep this money. Then I fully agree with the representative that it would have been best to have settled more quickly. We had also been released in both receptions and care centres. That is why I am pleased that we have also increased the grant to the lonely minors. We hope that the municipalities now show willingness to be able to accommodate more people, so that they can start their lives in a municipality and not be allowed to live in a care centre, which is an expensive model for the children concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e326	It opens for follow-up questions – first Gunnar Kaus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e330	In its budget, the Council of State states that: ‘The government will assess whether there is a need to return to the Storting with proposals for changes in the promise linked to the alien area in an additional issue of the 2016 draft budget’. In the additional number we have now received, which is for treatment, the allocation of municipal child protection measures for lone minors has been cut because it is estimated that the 2016 estimate was set too high – that is to say, the opposite of what one could expect from the referenced quotation. One acknowledges the problem that municipalities accept fewer because of cuts in reimbursement rates, but does not do enough to address the problem through increased rates. Now the Council of State has already answered a number of questions, but I want a clearer answer: will something be done to correct the large budget cuts in child protection measures for lone minors? The central party is going up there in its alternative budget, but the question is, what is the government going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e342	I am not quite sure if I understand the question, but it is Bufetat who is responsible for lone minors under the age of 15, so we have also increased the grant to the care centres in the revised national budget, and we have increased it for the current year and for the next year by 1.2 billion. Dr because more care centres need to be set up. Then it's not in the care centers the lone minors are going to live, it's out in the municipalities, and most of the municipalities that live in single minors give them a child protection offer, and there the government covers 80 pst. of the expenditure incurred by municipalities. In addition, we have increased the special grant to lone minors that municipalities can use, and we have increased it further for next year. So I believe that we have strengthened the work of child protection against those children who need child protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e349	It has been such that it can be called the first- and second-line service, has received a great deal of focus from the government – UDI, the police, etc. – in the case of asylum seekers. Two days ago, the Prime Minister, together with KS, sent out a letter stating the first line: ‘The situation in the Norwegian asylum system can now be described as a crisis.’ The increase in relation to this is formidable, and the government is now given the time to see the crisis come and move out to the third stage, out to the municipalities. The council itself was concerned that many people should be settled. So the question is, does the Council of State really think that the municipalities now have the toolbox they need to do the job the government asks them to do in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e359	We are facing a very demanding situation. There are unusually many who come to this country and who are seeking asylum, and a good part of them are allowed to stay and are also to be settled in a municipality. What is the situation now is that municipalities have to live more than they did before, unless the individual is allowed to stay in reception. What the situation now says is that it is also demanding for the municipalities, and therefore I am very happy that the government has a close and good cooperation with the KS in this work. We have seen that the Health Directorate has today called for the opening of a health pool for health professionals who can be involved and contribute. All three directorates, child protection, education and health, have sent letters to the municipalities to look at their responsibilities towards all children living in a municipality, and how important it is that the children receive follow-up. But it's demanding, and we also have to get back to the costs of this demanding work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e366	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e369	It is quite right that the next year will be a demanding situation when up to 18 000 people are to be settled in the municipalities. We need even more municipalities to take on that challenge and get on with the skill that this will entail, but then we may also have to look at different ways of living. One of the things that it's pointed to is this self-dwelling. Is there something the Council of State will work more on, and not least a self-settlement where you do not lose the right to, for example, Norwegian training?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e374	Self-settlement within today's system is very good and makes the refugees faster get out of reception. I have also commissioned the IMDI to work actively with the municipalities to make use of the self-settlement scheme within the current system that is possible. So it is that the individual, if you find a dwelling, finds a job and can be self-sustaining, has the opportunity today to move out and find the municipality you want, and you do not lose the right to Norwegian training. This right to Norwegian training follows you, and the municipalities also receive the subsidy. But that's the way you have to be self-sustaining, and if you're not self-sustaining when you've chosen to live yourself, you can risk having to go back to reception where you're covered with food and lodging, but there's no refugee who settles today, who loses the right to Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e381	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e384	Governments are right that a greater degree of activation will make it easier to get into work after reception. It will also make it easier for many municipalities to accept refugees if they are already well-informed in language training and in many ways have a clear competence — perhaps even some work experience. Despite increasing unemployment in many municipalities, many municipalities are also struggling to attract the necessary labour. Can the settlement work be easier if the integration is well started in the reception, so that there are more people who can go straight to work when they are settled? That's a fundamental question. This could result in much more people being out of activity and not being passive. Isn't that what's a bit of a goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e393	I have met many rapporteurs and refugee consultants working on integration work in the municipalities, and one of the things they point to is that they would wish the refugees had been better prepared in Norwegian and had work training before coming out to the municipalities. That is why we need to look at the Norwegian training that is taking place in the municipalities of reception, and the Norwegian training that is taking place in the municipalities of residence. The government has committed next year to get extra money for a better monitoring of the individual. We also have to look at getting more momentum into integration, because some people need a little longer time, while others need shorter time. It's important now that people may be longer at reception, that we start the integration work much earlier in reception for those who have been accommodated, so that they are better prepared when they get into the municipalities. It is best for the municipality, and not least it is best for the individual, who can quickly get into work or education and help contribute to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e400	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e404	Now the Council of State says Norwegian training is important, and at the same time she is cutting Norwegian training. In the budget, she says that the faster a refugee gets to live in a municipality, the faster he can participate and contribute his resources in working life and society. This is the SV fully in agreement. What we're doing now, it's going to take years. It's expensive, we pay for years for people on reception. It's passivating, and it's an unemployment and a lunaticization of the refugees. The best thing to do is to settle quickly. We need a new system, as proposed by SV, and as we investigated when we were in government. Every municipality settles, and the state pays. This is absolutely necessary, because it is the country that makes stays in Norway. In addition, we need a different maritime settlement system — at least to have it figured out — with the exception of some press areas that are used as counter-arguments each time. I want to ask the Council of State: is not the most important thing now that we succeed in good integration, or is the municipal veto that is the most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e415	The most important thing now is to put in place tightening and quick returns, and then we have to work to integrate those who have been legally accommodated. It is absolutely true, as the representative Andersen says, that SV in the government was investigating different housing models, but I also record that the previous government that SV was part of, did not propose this. The government presents the voluntary settlement system we have today, but we need to be more effective in the integration work, so that the municipalities feel that those who are staying and who are to be integrated into the municipality quickly join and contribute, get used to their resources and become a resource in the municipality. It's a work that I've intensified, and that we're going to work extra on now, because it's important throughout this integration work that you get to use your resources. We expect to have covered quite a large amount of costs that the municipalities have in this area. The integration work to be done now also comes back in a big message that we are promoting in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e429	My question goes to the State Council Helgesen. In spring, it became clear that Norway has the ambition to join the EU Climate Framework, which will ensure 40 pst. cut in greenhouse gas emissions up to 2030. That's good. It is also the objective Norway has notified to the UN prior to the Paris climate summit, which will be implemented despite the terrorist attack last Friday. However, in order for the EU to achieve its ambitions by 2030, it is likely that a number of existing directives that Norway has not yet implemented, such as: the 2012 Energy Efficiency Directive and the revised Building Energy Directive of 2010. The directives are in line with already stated policies in this area and Norway will have room for adaptation. The Directives will also be seen as a tool for achieving important energy efficiency improvement targets in Norway and the EU. For example, State Council Tord Lien has stated that a national numerical energy efficiency improvement target will be presented in the Energy Communication expected in spring 2016. A national energy efficiency improvement target is also outlined in the Energy Efficiency Directive of 2012 but also goes further by presenting the accompanying Energy Efficiency Improvement Action Plan and a long-term strategy to mobilise investments in the rehabilitation of housing, industrial buildings and public buildings. The Directive implies that state buildings such as government buildings, colleges, town halls, etc. be rehabilitated to high energy standards. It's important that the state becomes a leading actor here. Another example of the contribution of directives to the objectives of Norway is through the revised Building Energy Directive of 2010. According to the climate agreement, building should be at almost zero energy level from 2020. By including the directive and having a parallel process in our own climate agreement with new energy requirements for construction, we would be able to ensure both predictability and a level playing field for the Norwegian construction sector. My question to the Minister of Energy is therefore: Will the government ensure that Norway joins the entire EU energy framework, not just the climate framework, and implement the building and energy efficiency directives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e442	Now I am not the Minister of Energy, but I say as Minister of Energy and the EEA: Energy and climate are very important areas in our relationship with Europe and a theme that often goes back. We have very close cooperation with the EU in the field of energy and climate, and it is also the case that the EU sees these areas closely. We have a climate and energy framework, and today the report on energy union is being presented, and this is something we are following closely. Then, with broad support from the European Parliament, we have set up joint implementation of climate objectives with the European Union. So this is going to be the emission target. In terms of energy efficiency targets, we have high ambitions on the Norwegian side, but it is also true that in Norway we have a higher share of renewable energy and a different energy system than the rest of Europe. That's why we have other challenges. This means that when the EU makes directives for building energy efficiency improvement and for energy efficiency improvement, it is important that we review them thoroughly and that we ensure the necessary adaptations to Norwegian conditions. It's in the process we're now, for example. with the Building Energy Directive – a process to arrive at adaptations to suit Norwegian conditions. Regardless of EU policy, we have a good energy efficiency improvement policy adapted to Norwegian conditions through a number of instruments. With regard to the Energy Efficiency Directive, we aim to arrive at a Norwegian position on that Directive soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e451	I thank you for the answer, although I guess I did not get a complete answer as to whether we want to implement the directives or not. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, as late as yesterday, the government introduced a new technical regulation allowing for more use of electricity for heating, which is a breach of what has been a policy of the past. However, in addition to concrete targets for emissions reduction, the EU has several energy and climate objectives, both for 2020 and 2030, as targets for renewable energy share, increased energy efficiency and conversion in the transport sector. It is absolutely necessary that Norway, with its energy resources and competences, contribute to the achievement of these objectives by Europe. In what way should the government ensure that Norway contributes to the second two objectives of the EU for 2030, i.e. 27 pst. renewable share and 27 pst. increased energy efficiency? And a little bit in the extension of it too: Will this be part of the bilateral climate agreement between Norway and the EU or not? And if you don't want to contribute to these goals, what's the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e460	The basis for the EEAG Communication on the joint implementation of climate objectives with the EU is a joint implementation in relation to the emission targets. No national binding 2030 targets are set in the EU on the share of renewables and on energy efficiency improvement. It is in line with what was Norwegian view in the debate on the climate and energy framework. However, increasing renewable efforts and increasing energy efficiency are important contributions to reducing emissions, and Norway will contribute there. We have a number of instruments to promote more efficient use of energy, we have strict energy requirements for construction, and we have different support mechanisms – through Enova thousands of large and small projects are supported each year that contribute to energy efficiency in construction, construction, industry, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e467	It opens for follow-up questions – first Svein Abrahamsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e470	Norway was recently convicted in the EFTA Court of Justice that air quality in several places in the country does not meet the environmental requirements of EEA legislation. Emissions from the transport sector have a major impact on air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. In this context, I point out that last autumn the EU adopted a Directive establishing an alternative fuel infrastructure in the transport sector. This Directive requires, inter alia: large-scale expansion of electric car charging stations and shore-side power installations for ships in major ports. My question is: what will the Council of State do to ensure the rapid implementation of this Directive in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e477	In order to take the starting point for the question: it is correct that EFTA has made a judgment against Norway in the same way as the European Commission has brought an action against a number of EU countries for breach of the Air Quality Directive. For Norway, this applies from 2009 to 2012. We take note of the judgment, and we have already taken several measures. This alternative fuels directive is a directive that is to be assessed and which we will come back to implementing when it is ready to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e482	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e486	It may not have been as wrong to refer to the Council of State as Minister of Energy, perhaps not as Minister of Climate and Environment, because it is improper that, as European Minister of State – and with our close relationship with the European Union in matters such as energy, environment and climate – the Council of State has a considerable responsibility in those fields. We see developments moving towards becoming more and more dependent on, or involved in, the EU system in precisely these themes and areas. It is important, of course, that Norway should be as coherent as possible and that there are good anchoring processes in how the government thinks in its communication with the EU. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Does the Council of State, with a background to development, see any need for the expert councils to be more closely involved with the Stortingen in our approach to the EU in such important national issues as the environment, energy and climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e493	There is no area in which, on the part of the government in European policy, we have placed so much emphasis on interactions between climate and energy policy, including between climate and energy ministers, and also in relation to the Stortinget. It was at an early stage that we stressed the need to have a Norwegian agreed position on the EU's climate and energy framework, and this is the case now, when we see the EU's work in the field of climate change and the EU's work on the Energy Union moving forward with an overall approach, which requires us to also have an overall approach. Through consultations we have with the European Committee of the Regions, where the specialist councils also report on important issues in their field, we contribute to the close involvement of the Stortinge in these issues, and it will also be in the future in the important months that we have in front of us in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e498	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e501	No one is going to accuse the European Minister of Inspired Voting here in the Grand Chamber, and that is why it might say that I am still being inspired by a follow-up question. From the government's side, there is often the impression that we are committed to all the EU's climate objectives. The reality is that it is wrong. The EU's climate objectives have three pillars. It's emissions cut, as the minister confirmed that we're joining, and then it's in the energy efficiency field and in the renewables field. Then really is my question to the European Minister: When we know that Norway is one of the five countries in the world that uses the most energy per capita – another country is Iceland, where they are watering in lava – is it by chance that we in Norway join the goals where we can buy ourselves from commitments and pay others to do the job, while the directives that oblige us to do the job at home, do we say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e510	The President doesn't think there's any special reason to lead the use of voice in the Storting, as long as the answers are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e513	If my voice usage had been more inspiring, perhaps the representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, could still find out that in the previous answer I actually said that we are joining one of these three climate targets, namely the climate target that concerns emissions cuts. It is the most important thing, and it is also the most important thing on the part of the European Union because it is the only thing that is binding on individual countries. We will reach that goal, for example: by actively investing in energy efficiency improvement and the development of renewable solutions. However, it is a difficult reality that Norway has a much higher renewable share than other European countries. It is a difficult reality that our energy mix is completely different from that of most other European countries, and not all instruments are agreed on at the common European level, which will fit Norwegian conditions. There are many other European countries that also believe that the use of the instrument needs to be added as much as possible to each country. That is why we put great emphasis on the emission target – but we also place great emphasis on national instruments to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e522	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e525	My question goes to Minister Horne. The police have revealed that known sexual offenders are circling around vulnerable and young people in shelters. There's a suspicion of assault, reports Kripos. This applies to several places in the country, and you are very concerned. This must be stopped. If these kids disappear, nobody's looking. Horne and I were present at a presentation of a Fafo report showing this. Children seeking asylum alone are extremely vulnerable. They can be very easy to lure because they are so desperately lonely and need contact with adults. It hardly helps to report and record if there are not enough adults to take care of. When one adult is going to look after 30 wounded, terrified, lonely young people who don't trust adults at all, I realize that it can go wrong. I don't think anyone would have accepted anything like this for Norwegian youths who don't have parents and bosses to take care of themselves. In its budget, SV contributes money to more adults and to its own actions for vulnerable children, as well as to finding missing children. This is very serious, and all these children are the responsibility of the Minister of Children, because they are in Norway. This has been confirmed by the Minister for the Child, among others. on this Fafo lunch. Then I would like to ask the Minister: what are the three main measures that the Council of State has now taken at the asylum recipients, in the care centres and in the transit reception centres to stop these children from being subjected to abuse while they are under our responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e538	All children coming to Norway, regardless of their residence status, are responsible for child protection. Many of these children live in emergency facilities outside the municipalities, and both the Health Directorate and Buffdir have now sent a letter to the municipalities that they must be very aware of the situation in which children on reception may be in. The fact that a child disappears is serious. The things are challenging, and they're very complex. There are children who disappear because they don't want to be here, there may be children who are being traded on human beings, there may be children who find relatives, and there may also be children who don't want to live there. That's why it's very important that we have good practice at the care centers we have. I have close and good contact with Bufetat up to several times a week to assure me that we have good practice on this, and that the safety of the care centres is ensured. We also provide good guidance for the new care centres, which are now set up at a rapid pace. It is also important that we provide adequate safety and routines at the centres – including in terms of the safety of the premises – that there is high adult density and that there are cameras on the outside. It is also important that child protection is aware of the routines they must have with the police. If someone disappears, you have to report them to the police. It's the police that's going to follow these kids, but it's often hard to follow them up, because it's hard to know where they've gone. This is a difficult topic. I share very much the concerns of the representative – and also the concerns of many agencies. But I'm doing the best I can by having good practice at the care centres and having good training for the employees who are there. I have good contact with the Minister of Justice about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e549	Unfortunately, I am not very sure of the answer given by the Council of State, because it does not help to be concerned. The concerns that the police are now reporting are about ensuring that resources are deployed, strengthening the staffing of the receptions so that there are enough adults there to take care of, and that these are not just routines that say that you write a report that you send to another floor and finish it and right in the drawer – because that's how it happens. It is even true that in the budget just presented by the Council of State, Horne, it opens up so that there will be fewer adults. At receptions for them under the age of 15 and at receptions for them over the age of 15, we know that today there is one adult to care for 30 children. How can the Council of State feel that there is increased security for children reported by the police as being at risk of abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e554	In the care centres for which Bufetat is responsible, there is currently a crew density of two adults per child. There is an extraordinary situation we are now facing, last week 66 children arrived, throughout 2014 188 came. So in the last few months, we've only had more than 50 care centers in place to meet our demand. The most important thing I can do now is to make sure that adults who care for these children have good routines, good and close contact with the children, follow them up when they are at school – whether they have friends with them at home – and not least that it is reported to the police if you are concerned about escape and disappearance, and if there is a disappearance. I can assure the representative that I have close and close contact with the Minister of Justice as well, and both the UDI and the police have strengthened the capacity and resources for child-care competence at the receptions for which they are responsible to follow up these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e564	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e567	‘All children in Norway are ‘our children’,’ said the Council of State during the performance of a Fafo report on minor victims of trafficking in human beings, a report that, as mentioned above, struck firmly and clearly the opposite. Children disappear, children are attacked, the effort is in no way good enough. In the Question Time on 4 November, the Prime Minister said: ‘Shall all lone minor asylum seekers be treated as if they were child-restraint children? [[...]] And then my answer is, "No." I repeat the question: how is the Minister for Children supposed to protect children who are particularly vulnerable? Is it that safe and accessible adults can be replaced by good enough routines? And is it that the Council of State believes that there is a difference between our children and the children of the others?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e579	All children coming to Norway, regardless of their residence status, have the help they need, if they need assistance from child protection. However, all children coming to Norway do not have to be child-restraint children. There I fully agree with the Prime Minister: all children or all young people should not be under child protection. The size decided in 2009 to give them under 15 years of age an additional follow-up from child protection. It's a responsibility that we're now taking, and so we've increased the budgets for this. Then it's like when the children who live in asylum receptions come out to the municipalities, it's the municipal child protection out there in the municipalities that have an extra responsibility to follow up all the children. It is important that child protection is aware of. That is why we are also working against the municipalities. We have sent a letter stating that the municipalities must be aware that both children living in care centres, children living in reception centres, and children living at normal reception with their parents are entitled to the same child protection services as other children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e588	Eirin Sund - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e591	I hear the council say that there is no difference between children whether they are our children or those of others. But it is now the case that single minor asylum seekers are an enormously vulnerable group who have often experienced cruel things that we cannot imagine, on their flight from war and conflict, and who therefore need extensive and long-term follow-up, support and security. I know that the Council of State believes that there is no difference between their children and our children, but at the same time she is now presenting a budget that just opens up to make a difference between our children and those of others. The differences actually increase by one, among other things. lowers the requirements for care and supervision in care centres. Then I have to ask: what is it that makes lonely children after a traumatic flight, and who have a lot of luggage with them, deserve a worse offer than what our children would have received?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e596	I believe that the lone minors who come to Norway, whether they are over or under 15 years of age, get a good offer here in the country. The municipalities receiving asylum with single minors over the age of 15 are receiving an increase in the host grant, which is to go to health services and to the challenges that children face. Buffetat is responsible for the children under the age of 15. It is a difficult situation when we expect it to come at least about. 1 000 single minors – compared with 188 last year – to which we will have an offer. That is why we have strengthened the grant to the care centres by 1.2 billion. kr next year. We've also had to look at living in multi-hull rooms, and in the situation we're in now, we also have to look at whether we're going to go down on the manning factor. However, they shall be treated safely and well in the care centres in which they are located. And then it's not in the care centers, but out in the municipalities they're going to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e603	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e606	We all agree that the most vulnerable refugees are the lonely minors. They are in reception where there is too little adult density and too little opportunity to see the individual. The Minister for Children himself has called for a faster settlement of lone minor refugees, and I assume that the Minister agrees with me that the goal must be the shortest possible time in reception and the fastest possible settlement. In the hearing of the Committee on the State Budget, KS was very clear that the main weakness of the draft budget was the full funding of child protection measures. The main measure of housing for several single minors was the full funding of child protection measures, and they were also clear that the increase in the integration grant was not sufficiently targeted and that it could be cut off favourably, against full funding of the child protection measures. Why does the Minister for Children not want to listen to the KS in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e613	I am very happy that we have a close and good cooperation with the KS. In the additional number we have now promoted, we also need to look at whether we are looking at another financing model, a priced financing that has been set up by a very large number of municipalities, where municipalities can choose between a reimbursement scheme and a priced financing. That's where we're going to start a quick job. Then I'm very happy that, in addition to the municipalities, they cover 80 pst. of the costs of child protection measures in municipalities, the government has increased the special grant to minors for the current year, and we have also increased it by NOK 100 000 for each single minor for the next year. I have the hope that we will be able to proceed in the settlement of the lone minors. It's also a priority when we're dealing with housing. I hope that more people can live in families, when we see the great commitment of families who now want to be foster homes for the lonely minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e622	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e625	Since 2000, 600 unaccompanied minor asylum seekers have disappeared from reception. In July alone, 13 children disappeared, and in September, 31 children disappeared. I am aware that it is PU and UDI at the Minister of Justice who are responsible for this, but as Minister of Children for all children, the Council of State Horne also has a responsibility. The Child Protection Act states that we should ensure that all children and young people are provided with the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner and that the law applies to all children living in the Kingdom. Then I wonder, what does the Minister for Children do to clarify where the 600 children have disappeared? What do we do to make this not happen again, to get control that this stops happening, and control that one has a process to figure out where the 600 children are going?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e631	It is serious when minors disappear, and the issues, as I said in a previous answer, are challenging, among other things. Because we don't know enough about the kids that disappear. These figures are also uncertain, and preliminary figures from the ongoing research show that children are often counted twice. We see that there are some kids who don't want to be here. We see that there are some children who, when they get a discount, choose to disappear, and we also see that there are children looking for other relatives. Unfortunately, there are also indications that some of these children are exposed to trafficking in human beings. I can assure the representative and Stortinget that this is something that concerns me too. That is why it is so important that we have good practice, that they receive good training, that they work with children every day at care centres, and that there is child-care competence on the asylum recipients of single minors. Those under 15 years of age, we're registering in a reporting system. We have also put in extra funds to follow these children to learn more about them, but it is not least important to report them to the police. As for how the police follow up, I am in close contact with the Minister of Justice about how we can improve this work. But we're in an extraordinary situation with a lot of kids coming, which requires us to set up. We do what we can to ensure that the children in need of child protection are given as much care as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e638	We who sit in this room relate to the numbers that come from the police. Whether it is wrong that it is 600, or whether it should be fewer – that the number is wrong – is not important to me. I think one child who disappears is one child too much that disappears. I have to say that I am a little abandoned when the Council of State says that the situation is demanding, but nevertheless creates the impression that the situation is under control, when we hear that the Red Cross and others sound a strong alarm about how children – especially on the Tøen – are not being cared for, either in terms of their needs or in terms of their rights. One experiences, says Red Cross, that children disappear from reception that day, that the sibling splits. And it's massive care failure, they say. Then I think, is it to have the situation under control? Does the Minister for Children have control over the need and legal certainty of children in this demanding situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e645	Care centres shall work for the best of children and shall work continuously to prevent both escape and disappearance. All care centres shall have good procedures for disappearance and escape. To the situation on Tøen: it is Oslo Municipality that is responsible for the child protection service on Tøen. It is also the case that the PU should have a pediatric presence on the Tøen. We are in close and good dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to ensure that this comes into place. This was a concern that I raised already in September with the Municipality of Oslo, and the directorate is in good contact with the Municipality of Oslo about how we can manage to provide both guidance and help with the challenge that we have. The representative was also involved in this with the sibling being split up. The sister shall not be separated even if they belong to different age groups. An assessment is also made on each case. This is something that I also mention with Bufetat, to ensure that the sibling is not separated, but that it is assessed in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e654	It opens for further follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e657	As we hear, this is not the situation of recent dates. This is a concern we have had for a long time. One of my main concerns is that some of the children who disappear from reception are exposed to trafficking in human beings. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has put forward several proposals on improving care for lone minor asylum seekers, which I hope the Council of State will take a closer look at. One of the proposals is to set up a human trafficking team, as we had it at the Hvalstad transit reception in its time, and where you could also show good results. My question to the Council of State is: does she share the concern of the Christian People's Party that some of the children who disappear may be exposed to human trafficking? And will she be involved in taking the initiative to create a team that can work dedicated to this topic?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e666	It's true, as the representative says, that this is a long-term concern. That's why I'm very pleased with the Fafo report that we got a few weeks ago, which shows that there are some weaknesses in the system. That's something we're going to work on together – it's something that's both under my responsibilities and that's under the jurisdiction. Then I hear about a project that the Christian People's Party believes is good. I'm not negative about having good projects that show good results, if it can prevent children from being exposed to human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e673	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e676	There is reason to ask why the Council of State has not taken the initiative for such measures. It is true that there are no children in Norway, Norwegian children under the age of 18, who do not have parents and bosses with them, who are not responsible for child protection. Everyone is, so we treat them differently. It's so bad to get rid of these kids, we're not looking. I hear the minister is satisfied as long as there are routines in which to send letters and register, but what we know is that no one is looking. No one's looking for these kids when they disappear. There's not enough adults there to take care of if there's someone who looks like nice uncles, who's offering to help out on asylum receptions, and who might be superior. Then I'm going to ask the council directly. Is the Council of State satisfied only that the disappearances are being reported and recorded, or will the Council of State do something quite specific beyond what it has now done, in order that these children are actually to be found and that there should not be any overlaps in reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e683	No one is satisfied when we see that there are children who disappear, but it is important that those who work closely with the children every day have good routines, that they have close contact with the school and see which adult people are in contact with these children. But it's also important that we realize and have routines in care centres that the adults who work there are actually conscious of that work. There is something I assure myself about every time I am in contact with Bufetat, that they have such routines. It is important that we report, and it may be that the police should have done more. There's something I'm raising with the Minister of Justice. But it's a demanding job we're in now, and very many of the kids that disappear will not be found, and it's almost impossible to get hold of them. Having good routines, having good training for those who are going to work with children every day, is one of the most important prevention work against escapes and disappearances that we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e688	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e691	In August, the Left called for measures relating to the reception of lone minors on Tøen, and the Council of State also referred to contact with the Municipality of Oslo in September. The increase in single minors came, after all, before the other growth. Already this summer she said that the number of lone minors increased, and that is why one should have control of the Tøjen today. The councils referred to a lot of contact with the Municipality of Oslo. My question is: With the resources of the Municipality of Oslo and those of the State, is the Council of State certain that the situation on Tøen is now good enough, and that there are no longer any disappearances during registration on the island of lone minor asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e697	I was visiting a care centre at the end of September, and the feedback was that there was a problem with disappearances. That is why I was in close contact with Bufetat and asked them to contact the Municipality of Oslo to follow up that concern. It is the municipality of Oslo that is responsible for the child protection service on Tøen. It is PU, under the Ministry of Justice, who is responsible for children coming to the reception centres on Tøenen, and if PU believes that they cannot take responsibility for the children who are with them, they must contact Oslo Municipality Child Protection. The local child protection service in Oslo has been strengthened in order to manage children at the PU. Buffetat, for which I am responsible, is only responsible when they are going to the care centres. I had a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo last week to make sure that the situation at Tøjen is under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e702	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e714	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2 and 3 from Knut Storberget and Kjersti Toppe, respectively, to the Minister for Culture, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Minister for Culture has left. Question 4, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Industry, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Industry has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e729	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘In the summer, we had an interpellation debate on how the Stortinget should be involved in the work of a new government quarter, how to avoid becoming a massive office desert, the possible use of R5 and R6 where eight departments are housed today, etc. In October, State Building presented a model and its city-forming principles for the project, which will provide the basis for a future state regulatory plan. How does the Council of State feel about this, and what will the interaction with Stortinget and Oslo City Council be like in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e738	State Building's recommendation on urban principles for a new government quarter is a response to the Ministry's letter of 26 June 2014 on the work on government regulatory plan. The mission is based on the decisions taken by the government in May 2014. Statsbyk's proposal does not address the possible use of R5 and R6 as this was not part of the assignment. The recommendations of state-building are based on the parallel tasks developed during the Idea phase in the spring, on the thorough evaluation of the evaluation committee and on the input of other key actors. The municipality of Oslo has made important contributions to the idea phase. State-building proposals show that it is possible to establish a functional government quarter with moderate building heights, where there is room for both a large park and the consideration for walking and cycling is given great weight. The recommendation of state-building shows a concrete proposal. It's just the town-forming principles, that is. the overall framework for streets, building heights and building limits proposed for further work on the regulatory plan. Around the turn of the year, the government will address issues related to State Building’s urban policy proposals. We'll also look at the possibilities of using R5 and/or R6. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will, in the light of the government's discussions on these issues, lead to State Building's work on the regulatory plan. The regulatory plan shall be designed in such a way as to provide sufficient flexibility for the further detailed planning. State-building progress plan means that the proposal for a regulatory plan is submitted to consultation before the summer of 2016. The adoption may take place at the earliest by the end of 2016/2017. The final decisions on, inter alia: building heights, location of new buildings, spaces and outdoor areas are taken when the regulatory plan is adopted. Oslo Municipality is a particularly important player in the work of the government quarter. I attach great importance to the municipality being involved in the planning process. There has been close contact between the Municipality of Oslo and the Ministry, both at administrative level and with the City Council for Urban Development. I want the municipality and department to continue the good dialogue. I took this up at a meeting last week with the mayor, where I also informed about the further process of working on a new government quarter. I want a good dialogue with the Stortinge in this matter. I briefed the parliamentary leaders early in 2014 on the work on the new government quarter and on the recommendation of State Building in October this year. I will also keep the Stortinget and the parties informed about the status, progress and important choices for the project in an appropriate way. Otherwise, the Stortinge will be briefed in the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e751	I thank the Council of State for an informative and thorough answer. The proposal for town-forming principles and the model put forward by state-building states, as the Council of State says, that R5 and R6 have not been taken into account and that they remain within Ring 1, i.e. that you do not look up against Hammersborg, along Møllergata, which was in some of the ideas. Governments say there will be moderate building heights in the models that state buildings have outlined, but there is office building on 8-12 floors in a very close range between Møllergata and Grubbegata. There's little light and room in that area. If the state regulatory plan will follow up within that framework, the project will be locked up quite a bit. So I want to ask the Council of State whether he will consider involving Stortinget more, in addition to the orientation of the state budget now, which is more of a status update and a neutral orientation without positions and signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e760	Let me first say that I and the government pay great attention to the fact that the new government quarter is going to be open. It's a part that's very central to the capital. There shall be open urban spaces, it shall be available, and it shall be safe for those working there and for those travelling in the area. And we're also going to focus on that right now. In that phase of demolition and construction, it shall be as open as possible. It's in the bottom. What I think has been positive with the sketch that has come from State Building is that they show that it is possible to realize the government quarter together in a way that makes it moderate building heights. In addition, when the department will assess R5 and possibly R6, it means – in my opinion – that we can get a very good solution. We have so far provided good information for Stortinget. The budgetary round is one thing, but we have also stressed the importance of having informal discussions with the parliamentary leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e769	I thank you for that answer too. It is positive that the government will also look at R5 and R6, which, after all, is just a few hundred meters from the high block, and where some of the security arguments that we discussed in the interpellation debate can come into a new light. We have excluded the discussion about the Y block, because we thought it was safe impossible, where it lies above Ring 1, but State Building will lower and strengthen Ring 1, so that we can have a new building block in parts of the area where the Y block is today, called Field A in the model that State Building has presented. When you open to build on Ring 1 by lowering and strengthening it, will it mean that the government will also look at the Y block again, at the same moment as you look at R5 and R6? It belongs together with the high-block in an integrated environment. With regard to the forthcoming architectural contest, is it right that it should come after the state regulatory plan has been completed or will it be able to advance, so that it will also have more open opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e780	Let me first say that there is nothing in Statsbygg's proposal that changes the assumptions for the Y block to be demolished. That decision has been made, and it is very well justified. The sketches of State Building regarding the possible lowering and strengthening of Ring 1 will have no impact on the safety associated with the Y block. It is not possible to have ministerial construction over that tunnel. Otherwise, I would like to stress that we need to put security at the bottom when we are going to build a new government quarter. That it gathers makes it easier to handle security, as the police have also underlined. We believe that this can be handled at the same time as ensuring good transparency while it is being built, and also when it is built. There should be open room, it should be accessible and pleasant to people most. In the end, in terms of the architectural competition, we consider different ways of doing it, but it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e800	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Culture has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e814	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Culture has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e828	This issue has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Industry has left. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-18.ana.ud1624e843	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
