ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e82	From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Truls Wickholm, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Jens Stoltenberg, from 5 February to 18 February, due to maternity leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternate, Prableen Kaur, is invited to meet during the leave period. The trialla Kaur is present and will take the seat. From February 9 to March 1st, to participate in the International Visitor Leadership Programme in the United States, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for leave of the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Øystein Langholm Hansen, is hereby invited to meet for the period of leave from 10 February to 19 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e122	The representative, Mrs Marthinsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e125	On behalf of the representative Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I am delighted to make representation proposals to set up a Norwegian public ownership register to ensure transparency about ownership in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e130	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e146	Although this is a relatively comprehensive case, it is probably the closest thing to consider to be an expedition case. This is true in 2012, and many people would think it might be time to have it treated. As is apparent from the case-law, the Committee has no comments other than referring to the document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and requests that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 2, 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e191	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e198	I will explain two issues, first the annual report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council for the second half of 2013–1. half-year 2014 and thereafter the suspension of Notifying. Article 5 on Nordic cooperation, which the Foreign and Defence Committee unanimously recommends. The Nordic Council's session was held in October 2013 in Stortinget. One main theme was to remove and combat border barriers between Nordic countries. I have to say here that EU legislation often needs to be taken into account when finding solutions. This important work should be continued. Sweden led the Nordic Council in 2014. ‘Nordic Europe in the Nordic region’ was the theme, which dealt with very important areas. The emphasis was placed on: the Nordic labour market sustainable extraction of natural resources 200 years of peace in the Nordic region We are now seeing dramatic changes in the security and geopolitical image along the borders of Europe. We experience a complex and unpredictable landscape where Norway is becoming more exposed to sudden changes. The conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine have raised fundamental questions regarding Norway’s security. From the Norwegian side, it has been important to include Russian parliamentarians in Nordic cooperation, but this cooperation has, of course, been in a wave valley since the annexation of Crimea last March. The dramatic developments we see in Ukraine underline the importance of our being united with our partners and allies in the EU and in NATO against Russia's violations of international law. It is important to stress that NATO is the cornerstone of our defence cooperation. At the same time, it is desirable to continue pragmatic cooperation with Russia in areas such as people-to-people cooperation and search and rescue. Further Nordic cooperation with North-West Russia must be seen in the light of the political situation and the restrictive measures aimed at the country. It's worth noting that we've had 200 years of peace in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation increases Norway’s security, influence and space for action and forms the model for modern, regional security work. A good neighbourhood – from the west to the Baltic Sea region and to parliamentary bodies in the north and the Arctic – should continue to be a priority. Nordic cooperation increasingly includes European issues, and it appears to be a potential for increased European policy cooperation, in particular linked to the EEA Agreement and the internal market and the dismantling of border barriers. The Nordic Thematic Session, held for the first time in Brussels on 25 and 26 March, will bring together Nordic parliamentarians, EU parliamentarians and EU Commissioners. The themes include: environmental issues, mobility and competition policy. Nordic cooperation appears to be more dynamic and performance-oriented than for a long time. It is positive to see the development of Nordic foreign and defence cooperation, which did not exist 20 years ago. In 2014, the reform work started with the aim of strengthening the policy platform of the Nordic Council. This is a step in the right direction. A unanimous committee has great expectations that the modernisation work of both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers will take place. More dynamic and politically oriented cooperation, supported by effective decision-making processes and good administrative practice is desirable. The work of the Nordic Council must be as firmly anchored as possible in the Stortinget and in the specialist committees here. The cornerstone of Nordic cooperation is the Helsinki Agreement. It is essential that the agenda be set by politicians, and that cooperation in the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers are actively used to bring Nordic benefits to the citizens of the Nordic region. The increased international interest in the Nordic model of economy, welfare and working life should be met. Therefore, it is positive that the Nordic Council of Ministers has started work on international profiling and positioning of the Nordic region, not least in international forums where Nordic countries have a common interest. Norway has long promoted and strengthened cooperation between Nordic foreign services. [[President clubs]] Today, there are different forms of Nordic co-location in around 25 places around the world. Finally, I would like to say that the purpose of Nordic cooperation must be to bring Nordic benefits to the citizens of the Nordic region, and that our Nordic cooperation acts as an important bridge builder in regional Europe and in our neighbourhoods. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e238	The President requests that the post be terminated and that the time for the speech be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e241	To start where Thore Vestby ended: exactly two years ago Washington stood in the North sign. The exhibition Nordic Cool from February 2013 is the largest common Nordic cultural initiative outside the Nordic region. The Americans learned, not least, about Nordic values, Nordic art and culture, Nordic food and the Nordic model of society. The Nordics and Nordic values are getting more and more attention in the world. The interests of the Nordic model are great. Universal rights, equality and tripartite labour relations are among the established structures that people are curious about and look at. I see from the announcement that the government is concerned that the Nordic Council of Ministers will profile the Nordic region more strongly. In 2014, work was started on a strategy for international profiling and positioning of the Nordic region. As Thore Vestby also said: Nordic cooperation is more dynamic than at a long time, both at government level and in the Nordic Council. The Council of Ministers has set up a Border Barrier Council to replace the old Border Barrier Forum. On the Norwegian side, Svein Ludvigsen sits in the Council. The removal of border barriers in the Nordic region and the prevention of new ones are probably still the most important work between countries. This must also be seen within an EU-EEA framework and the EU internal market, so that we do not get new border barriers as a result of different implementation of directives. The Swedish Presidency of the Nordic Council also focused on the Nordic countries and Europe. The Council of Ministers has been given the former Swedish Council of State Bo Könberg to investigate possible future health cooperation. He has put forward 14 concrete proposals, including: in so-called rare diagnosis, public health and antibiotic resistance measures. Let me add that many of these themes also work with the welfare committee of the Nordic Council, i.e. the parliamentarians, and several of them must be seen as a follow-up to Council decisions. The most practical and dynamic cooperation in recent years has been in the field of defence and security policy, a cooperation that takes place despite, but on the basis of, the Nordic countries having different security policies. Defence cooperation takes place informally, but objectively and results-oriented between the Nordic governments and the heads of defence within NORDEFCO. Since there is no Council of Ministers in that sector, the Nordic Council under the Norwegian Presidency in 2013, when I was President, took the initiative to get a better parliamentary anchoring. In autumn 2013, we received the first round table conference between the Nordic Council Bureau and the Nordic Defence Ministers. That meeting was held in Helsinki because Finland had the presidency in 2013 in just NORDEFCO. The Presidency was taken over by the Norwegian Minister of Defence in 2014. On 13 October last year we repeated the round table conference in Oslo, here in the staging building, and it was also a great success. As mentioned in both settings, the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council of Ministers – of what is in the documents – best remembers the autumn of 2013 because the session was held in Stortinget. I think it's best to remember that we had a price distribution at the Opera, and that it was broadcast from the NRK out to all Nordic countries. Let me take this opportunity to thank the NRK for a very good cooperation. 2013 was also the year when the first Nordic children's book price was distributed, which was important to strengthen Scandinavian language in our English-speaking world, which also crawls into the Nordic region. Let me commend the former Minister of Culture Anniken Huitfeldt, who actually stood quite strongly on getting the children's book price in as one of the Nordic prizes. In the autumn of 2014, the price of the best children’s book went to Norway. It was Håkon Obereås and Øyvind Torseter who received the prize for the children's book «Brune». Finally, because Thore Vestby also raised this issue: the Nordic Council has had extensive – or at least useful – cooperation with Russian parliamentarians in recent years. In the current situation, the Council believes that at some level that dialogue should also continue. We believe it is important that parliamentarians meet across such borders right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e260	I am so lucky to have taken over the responsibility of the rapporteur on the issue of Arctic parliamentary cooperation from Kristian Norheim, since I am currently in his absence. On 22 October 2009, the Stortinget decided to set up a delegation for Arctic parliamentary cooperation. The delegation has six members and six alternates. The head of the Stortinget delegation, Eirik Sivertsen, represents the Stortinge at the meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. This committee consists of elected representatives from the eight Arctic countries — Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden and the United States — and the European Parliament. The indigenous peoples of the Arctic participate in the cooperation as permanent participants. In September 2014, Head of Delegation Sivertsen was elected as new head of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee for the next two years, and Dennis Bevington from Canada was re-elected as vice-chairman of the Committee. An important purpose of the meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee is to have dialogue with the country that is the leader of the Arctic Council – Arctic Government Cooperation. The majority has undertaken to host the secretariat of the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. A new delegation was elected by Stortinget on 12 November 2013, and Eirik Sivertsen was elected Head of Delegation with Janne Sjelmo Nordås as Vice-Chairman. The delegation held four meetings during the period. In February 2014, the delegation organised a dialogue meeting on the northern regions with Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende. The dialogue meetings are a follow-up to the Northern Territory Communication. In addition, there have been meetings in Bodø, Svalbard and Finland. The themes have been industrial activities, labour and student exchanges, closer cooperation in the Nordic border areas, sustainable infrastructure development, governance models and decision-making in the Arctic, economic development – resource extraction and capacity building – and environmental challenges. In the coming year, the delegation wants to contribute to a lively and committed debate on the development of the Arctic, national and international. We will work towards the implementation of the final declaration of the Conference in Whitehorse, where dialogue with the United States as the forthcoming Presidency of the Arctic Council will be particularly important. The geopolitical landscape is changing, especially in view of the Russia–Ukraine situation, and this underpins the importance of this cooperation. It is also important to emphasise cooperation on search and rescue in the north and technological aids that can simplify and ensure quality in this work in the future. An overall defence and foreign committee indicates that Norway, with long traditions in polar strata, has major national interests to care for as a polarity. Developments in the Arctic in recent years have given rise to a new situation. The interest in the Arctic and the northern regions has increased. More activity related to, inter alia: shipping, resource extraction and tourism make the area attractive in a new way. The Committee notes that the delegation will take an active part in meetings and create new venues where Arctic issues are discussed. The Committee sees that the delegation will thus have close contact with relevant actors and partners in order to shape the Arctic policy of the future. I would like to refer to the annual report to the Stortinget from the Swedish Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation Delegation for the period from 1 October 2013 to 12 September 2014 and request that it be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e283	2015 is an important year for the development of the Arctic, because, hopefully, 2015 is the year when a new global binding agreement on greenhouse gas emission reduction will be reached in Paris. Our success in Paris is the most important thing we can do for the Arctic and for the rest of our planet. It is less than a year before the governments of the world meet in Paris, and I would encourage the government to use every opportunity in the future to work to ensure that we succeed in reaching the best possible agreement. The Nordic Minister of Cooperation has to look at how we from the Nordic countries can work together to achieve this goal. The Nordics have a lot to contribute, and we need to look closely at how we can work together to reduce emissions. We must lead by the power of the example and make the Nordic region a priority region for climate change reduction. At the same time, we need to look at how we can otherwise contribute in the global process towards Paris. One step in the right direction is yesterday's climate agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Our foreign minister should address the climate challenges in all the forums he meets, and in particular I would encourage him to use the cooperation of the Arctic Council as a platform in this work. From the Arctic Council of Ministers in Canada at the end of April later this year, there should be a strong and clear message about the consequences of climate change in the Arctic and the importance of achieving the best possible agreement in Paris. We know that the temperature in the Arctic is rising twice as fast as elsewhere in the world. That's why in the Arctic we first see the consequences of global warming. Arctic cooperation is important scientific contributors to our knowledge of how greenhouse gases and the increased temperature affect the environment, both in the sea and on land. It is important that we pass on knowledge of this, and the cooperation in the Arctic Council is the best arena we have for this. According to NASA researchers in the United States, 2014 was the warmest year on the globe since the measurements started with scientific instruments at the beginning of the 1880s. At the same time, we often see more extreme weather, both here at home and elsewhere on the globe. We get more and more floods, while other areas experience long-lasting droughts. There is no longer any doubt that this is because of us human beings and how we live on earth. The Paris meeting is an important milestone in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but there is no doubt that work will have to continue for many years to come. Through cooperation in the Nordic and Arctic, we have good opportunities to drive the process in a positive direction. We need to use these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e300	The development of our neighbourhoods creates new challenges for foreign and security cooperation in the Nordic region, but also opens up new opportunities. As the Committee expresses in its position, there is broad support for Nordic cooperation. Cohesion in the Nordic region increases Norway’s security, influence and space for action. The visions of the Stoltenberg report continue in the light of the new challenges we face. Nordic defence cooperation has been considerably strengthened. The changing security policy situation in Europe also increases the need for enhanced cooperation in the Nordic region. I would also like to highlight the increasing cooperation between NATO and Sweden and Finland. At the summit, NATO opened up even closer cooperation to offer Sweden and Finland. Norway was a proponent here. Towards the 2016 summit, we will work towards a stronger partnership being translated into practical cooperation and political dialogue. The Nordic countries agree that there are good reasons for closer cooperation on north-eastern issues. We have a tradition of doing a common cause on climate and environmental issues in international cooperation in the north. I want to work closely with my Nordic colleagues and the incoming American Presidency of the Arctic Council to influence international climate negotiations in the right direction. This was also an important question in the bilateral talks I had with Admiral Papp, as the head of the work of the State Department now around the American Presidency of the Arctic Council. If we succeed in Paris at the end of the year, the result may be one of the most important agreements in our time. Last year I sent out a general instruction to all Norwegian foreign stations about now, in all relevant contexts, putting the climate at the very top of the agenda, and I can assure them that this is also important in the political discussions that I have during the day, along with the development of the new Millennium Goals, the sustainability goals, and the funding for development. The Nordic countries share a common vision of managing resources in a sustainable way. Trust between good neighbours provides a good basis for increasing cooperation in important areas, which can facilitate development in the north. The follow-up to the ‘Growth from the North’ report presented at Arctic Frontiers is a good example of concrete cooperation with Finland and Sweden. At a time when foreign service expectations have increased, along with budget pressure, we are committed to delivering better services through concrete Nordic cooperation at individual embassies. One example of co-location is the Nordic Embassy in Myanmar. Joint administrative operations, with the sharing of human resources and other services, are an innovative concept that can form a model for similar establishments. In the coming months, a Norwegian-Danish embassy complex will be completed in Kabul. In the longer term, a further four–five cities have been flashed out as relevant for common Nordic solutions, including: a Norwegian-Danish joint project in Dhaka. I consider this to be a very useful investment for our foreign service and for our ability to care for Norwegian interests in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e335	The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his speech, at the very end, the cooperation between the Nordic countries in the field of embassies. This is a follow-up to the Stoltenberg report, or one of the concrete proposals in the Stoltenberg report, and it can be said that it goes a little slower than what you could really expect or had hoped for. But let me add that I think it's important both what has happened in Berlin and Myanmar, and also what is well planned for the UN delegation. Then there is another area of foreign policy that the Nordic Council Bureau has been involved in in recent months, and there are opportunities to strengthen cooperation between the ministers responsible for development and assistance policy. The Bureau has taken a decision asking the development/foreign ministers to strengthen that cooperation. I don't know if the foreign minister can say a little about what the status is in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e342	Thank you to the representative Nybakk for addressing the issue of the important development and sustainability dimension of cooperation at Nordic level, not least for a year before agreeing on funding and national resource mobilisation as an ascent to the UN High Level Meeting on the new sustainability goals. It is now initiated by a meeting of the Nordic Development Ministers in Helsinki in February/March, where we will also meet the World Bank Director, Kim, to see how we, as the Nordic region, can play an even more active role in the process towards this conference and these important conferences. So I look forward to participating there and have already started an important coordination work with my Nordic colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e350	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e353	International activities have been important within the Nordic Council of Ministers for a number of years. This cooperation is not least related to North-West Russia. We are therefore responding strongly to the fact that the Russian authorities have now registered the office in St. Petersburg as ‘foreign agent’. However, the Council of Ministers continues the dialogue under the Danish Presidency to change the status of the Office. If this does not result, it is necessary to assess whether the offices in Russia must be wound up. In the last year, the Nordic Council of Ministers has been marked by significant change. In 2013, Secretary-General Højbråten was given a modernisation mission with a view to improving the efficiency and efficiency of government cooperation. The changes are far-reaching and thorough and cover the entire business, including the institutions, decision-making processes and the budgetary process. The Council of Ministers is therefore better equipped to meet the challenges we face. The potential for stronger and deeper Nordic cooperation is great. Last year’s Könberg report showed the potential for increased health cooperation. Several of these recommendations will be followed up in the coming year. The report has been an inspiration for other Councils of Ministers as well. In the field of working life, common Nordic initiatives to promote employment, low unemployment, inclusive working life and a good working environment as well as Nordic cooperation in international matters and the role of tripartite cooperation in a Nordic perspective are sought. Another core area of Nordic cooperation is border barriers. This has been subject to major changes in the year that went on. The Border Obstacle Council has now worked for one year, and I hope that the forthcoming annual report will show that the new organisation is delivering good results. I was right before Christmas, together with our Norwegian representative in the Border Obstacles Council, Svein Ludvigsen, meeting with all the departments concerned to gain status on the priority border barriers that Norway has set itself to solve. My impression is that the sectors are working well with frontier barriers. Of the five cases that were prioritised in 2014, four are under consideration in order to find a solution; it is in the preparation of new regulations on the right to cover expenditure or to improve the management of taxes. Only one is rejected for political reasons, and that is the birth rate under the parental pension scheme. Priority issues in 2014 have been patient journeys for workers in Norway, residing in Finland Norwegian customs and value added tax for the temporary introduction of plant machinery feathering quota under the parental death scheme tax payment for frontier crossings long processing time in EU-related cases, in particular in the social security area The strategy for the international profiling and positioning of the Nordic region 2015–2018 is a cooperation that can bring the Nordic countries even closer to an important field of activity. The strategy aims to increase Nordic competitiveness and international influence. It shall facilitate Nordic joint activities in selected profiling areas: the Nordic model; the Nordic as a knowledge society; Nordic creativity and innovation; and the Nordic culture and nature. The representative Marit Nybakk pointed to the success of Nordic Pool, and inspired by this, the Nordic countries are now working together to identify projects and initiatives. From 2016 onwards, fresh funds are set at major profile-creating international bets. This year, activities will be carried out within the current budgetary framework of the Council of Ministers. The budgets of the Council of Ministers have been cut for the last two years. In 2016, the framework will be reduced by approx. a total of 8 pst. However, this is not dramatic for the activities but has been demanding for the sectors. I hope that with this we can set a line for further cuts in the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Cooperation with the Nordic Council has been good in this process, and we also see that the dialogue in other policy areas has become closer. I think that's very gratifying. Finally, let me mention that we look forward to working with the Danish Presidency in 2015, which has chosen the following focus areas: growth, well-being, values and the Blue Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e395	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for the annual report of the Arctic delegation for a good overview of the report submitted. There is a broad consensus in Norway that the northern regions are important, if not the most important area we have. It represents large areas geographically, but it also represents large values and thus great opportunities for the nation. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that there is good cooperation between the Arctic delegation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is also an expression of the follow-up to the Northern Region enlargement message, which pointed out that there was room for strengthening parliamentary work and cooperation between the government and parliamentarians both nationally and internationally. I am also pleased that several speakers here have referred to the synergies – in the absence of a better word – between the work being done in the Nordic Council and the Arctic Council. There I think we have an additional potential that can be realized. The delegation is relatively young, with the benefits it brings. It was established, on which the rapporteur-in-Office was involved, in 2009. It also provides an opportunity to explore other ways of strengthening parliamentary work. One of the things we tried last year was linked to an event in Arendalsuka, together with UNEP/GRID Arendal, and this year the delegation has, for example, followed up the Technology Council report on drones and the opportunities for drones in the Arctic, in an attempt to follow-up and focus on an area that provides opportunities for Norway. I will not avoid mentioning Russia when we discuss the Arctic and the North regions in 2015, in the light of what happened in Ukraine and the Crimean Peninsula last year. Let me underline that there is agreement on the Norwegian view of Russia's actions both in Ukraine and in Crimea, and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs often says, Norway is among the countries of the world most dependent on respect for international law, international laws and agreements. We have great interests in the marine areas, where the law of the sea applies. We have conventions that regulate Svalbard, and we have agreements that regulate Antarctica. But we also need to address the concern expressed further north of Norway, for the need for dialogue with our neighbours. It is absolutely vital that we find a proper balance between how we express our view of what Russia has done and that we do not accept it and how we organise cooperation. Cooperation in the North and the Arctic without Russia, which has 40 pst. of the coastline towards the Arctic Ocean, becomes almost meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e406	There is a lot that makes cooperation in the Arctic exciting and important. The Nordic regions are our most important area of foreign policy interest, and in Arctic cooperation we are partners with powerful countries such as the United States, Canada and Russia. Cooperation is dynamic and has rightly captured the interest of countries far from the Arctic, such as Singapore, Korea and China. Important areas of cooperation are climate change, search and rescue and how we can develop a region with viable societies where people can live good lives in the pact with their traditions and their culture. The Arctic is also an area of many resources, and we know that almost 90 pst. of our export income comes from resources and economic activity in our marine areas. But in Arctic cooperation, our Nordic neighbours are important partners. In our own northern areas, cooperation between Norway, Sweden and Finland is of great importance. In this area, we also see that Arctic cooperation and Nordic cooperation are slipping into each other. In the Arctic delegation of the Storting, we have cooperated with our sister delegation in the Finnish Parliament. We've been discussing developments in our own northern regions and looking at what opportunities we have for cross-border cooperation in the north. I am pleased that the government also sees the opportunities that lie in the cooperation with our Nordic neighbours in the north. In May 2014, a Northern Region Partnership between Norway and Finland was launched by Foreign Minister Brende and his Finnish colleague. Increased student exchange, dialogue on transport and logistics, enhanced regional cooperation and the flow of labour and services are the main activities of the partnership. This is entirely in line with what we parliamentarians also discussed and agreed on. Just a few weeks ago, the report «Growth from the North» was presented to Prime Minister Solberg at the Arctic Frontiers Conference in Tromsø. The report was an order from the Prime Ministers of Finland, Sweden and Norway and addresses many of the same topics as the Finnish-Norwegian partnership discussed last year. I think we need to use the partnership and reports to concretely put pressure on cooperation between our countries. If we are able to put Nordic cooperation into an Arctic context, I think it will open up new opportunities, both within Nordic and within Arctic cooperation. There is also an increased international interest in the Arctic, and then we need robust development in the North, based on knowledge and innovation. We need to look at how we can harness our different strengths to position together the region for development and growth in the Arctic. At the same time, such work in the north could speed up the removal of border barriers between our Nordic countries, a work that will always be relevant in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e419	I think we can say it as simple as the Arctic is important, has been important and will become important to Norway in the future. Norway has a ownership and responsibility for parts of the Arctic and the northern seas, and as a nation, we must take this seriously. At the same time, the Arctic and the North are vulnerable areas. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we as a nation have the best possible preparedness, that we constantly train so that search and rescue operations can be carried out effectively and in a good way. We don't just need national training to get it done, we also need cooperation with other nations so that we can work together to provide the best possible preparedness in the north. So there's a couple of things I want to point out. One piece concerns the use of drones in the north. I am convinced that this will come on a full scale. It's an easy way to have monitoring, and it's an effective way to have monitoring. If you go in and look at the resource use linked up to being able to use drones instead of being physically present everywhere, there is no doubt that this is an effective way to do it. It is also incredibly interesting to visit the monitoring centre in Vardø, where you have full control via satellite of all shipping from Beringstredet to the North Sea. It provides security for activities in the north. Then there's one thing I want to do – really, it's not a criticism of this or the previous government, it's just an area I want us to focus on, and which I think is incredibly important. We're currently spending an incredible amount of resources on research, climate, changes in temperature and the whole thing, and I have nothing against that. But it's a matter that's quickly forgotten about this, and there's environmental emissions in the north. We know that today there are large quantities of both PCBs, lead and mercury that are released from industry in Europe, and technology has come so far that it can actually be traced back to each discharge. You have to focus on this, because we feel that people cannot eat meat and that animals are born with great damage. We can't have it like that in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e432	Nordic cooperation is important in many areas. Yesterday, I attended a large conference on how to achieve better cooperation on health, focusing on the Körnberg report. Antibiotic resistance, rare diseases and highly specialised research were some of the themes discussed. These are current and important issues that all agree that we need to cooperate better on, because we are not alone in this. There are many areas in which we can learn to coordinate, participate in each other's experiences and find good solutions – we already do. But in health, it's important to do it, because we're too small in many fields, and we need more skills. Unfortunately, there are border barriers and laws to clean up, and we are organised differently. The role of cooperation ministers must be to identify the problems and do something with them. Only through more cooperation can we implement what the Körnberg report proposes. It is the Council of Ministers' seafarer who has ordered the report, so I have great expectation that something will happen now. I am also a member of a BSPC working group on innovation in health and social matters. There we find the good examples, which can contribute to new approaches and ideas that can be useful to all countries in the region. There are also differences and barriers to borders, and not least different cultures. It's exciting, and it offers great opportunities to find new good solutions for the future. Such working groups are useful and necessary. The Nordic Council helps us parliamentarians to better understand the challenges, languages and how they solve their political issues. That's good Nordic use. When we adopted a plan for a non-toxic everyday life on Tuesday, this was a follow-up to sample work in the Nordic Council. Now that we have a proposal for common rules for au pairs, it may help to improve the Nordic system. These are two good examples of good Nordic work. I'm a little worried that in the long run it'll be more difficult to keep Nordic as a working language. More and more Finns and Icelanders only speak English, and more and more interpretations are being made. Our pressure in the Nordic region is a common understanding of language, we have to keep that in mind. Several Nordic television series and more Nordic television will be able to contribute, but I think we must also dry up the debate and make it live again if we are to succeed. We politicians want to change what we can, including in the Nordic Council. A strong Nordic region in Europe is important, so we should be even more active in contributing to retaining the legitimacy of the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e451	It is as the leader of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council that I find it not unnatural to link any comments to that matter, the announcement of Nordic cooperation, which is part of the morning bloc. If words and conferences had had the effect that the participants seem to attach to them, most problems would have been solved. It's not like that. Therefore, it is also important that the Nordic Council delegation takes care that we use the time effectively, that we have a travel pattern that makes no one excluded, and that it is both time- and cost-effective. This is why there has been a reform group in place that looks at how we put our cooperation into practice at the Nordic Council. In addition, it is important that we have better governance of economic planning through an up-to-date budget paper. I must also say, as head of the Budget Group, that I have seen that the real priorities are only forced through when, on the basis of the consensus principle, one of the countries places the overall framework cut short. Ideally, it would not be, it would be the solution of the necessary tasks and their funding that would add up to what was used. But as in many public-run organisations, priorities are first forced through lack of money. A contribution to cleaning up what we should do and spend time on is getting deeper integration. Cooperation outside the Nordic region must also be given priority. Then I will choose to emphasise cooperation with the democratic countries, the new democracies around the Baltic Sea, and help them to resist further pressure. I would also say that there would be a sin of omission here today if we went past the fact that the contact office in St. Petersburg is subject to surveillance and registration as a foreign agent. That is not how cooperation is promoted across systems and geographical boundaries. I have also spoken for myself in the Nordic Council, in the Budget Group, in the Bureau, where I sit with my good colleague, Marit Nybakk, that this form of registration cannot be combined with the exchange of ideas – and this office will be in liquidation until the Russians fail to meet this requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e464	The Nordic Council has recommended Nordic governments, among others. developing a common Nordic strategy for development and investment in transport infrastructure. This question has also been raised here in Stortinget in an interview in 2013. As transport rapporteur for the Nordic Council, I got a little insight into the informal Nordic-Baltic Transport Ministerial meeting in 2014, so that I could present the views of the Nordic Council. In the Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport and Transport, transport across borders is a theme that engages a great many – that is what most questions have been asked. Both in the Industry Committee, of which I am a member, and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have a great deal of commitment, and we are now working with, among other things. train – Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen, 8 million, to see how we can achieve a better, common, port policy in cooperation. And I think that's important. But the message says that the government believes that the Nordic transport cooperation works satisfactorily and is proposed to continue rather than build new structures. But then I think the Council of State has a little bit of a bomb, because the Nordic Council has not asked for new structures to be built, but we also want a large investment in the national transport project to take care of neighbouring countries. We have made contact with the specialist council, Solvik-Olsen, to get him to meet with Nordic parliamentarians who are engaged in good Nordic transport solutions. The Swedish Minister of Transport has welcomed such a meeting, but the Norwegian Minister thought it was difficult to get time for it. I thought, if there is any sense in Nordic cooperation, that we parliamentarians who meet several times a year have to experience an engagement with our governments for the questions that we are burning for there. To this end, I have a call for cooperation minister Aspaker, who has a coordinating responsibility for Nordic government cooperation: Nordic parliamentarians are very interested in getting the Nordic Ministers for Transport – especially the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish – to talk about good and forward-looking transport solutions that are effective, safe and environmentally friendly for the Nordic region and the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e475	I've had the pleasure of being a delegate to the Nordic Council for three to four years, and in the last two years as head of the Culture and Education Committee. It has been both instructive and inspiring in the joint Nordic cooperation, and not least what common challenges we have. On 25 February, the Danish Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, invites to a meeting to present the Danish Presidency Programme for the current year. Inviteing across countries is a good initiative when it comes to presenting it. Cooperation within the Committee on Culture and Education is very good, across both party and country borders. It's an active committee, and it's very rare that we have sharp voting, but we're bringing forward common issues that everyone has a lot of interest in. In this committee, we have raised three new areas that we want to give priority to. 2015 is the year of outdoor life. It is marked throughout Norway and the Nordic countries. We have entered into a partnership with the Nordic outdoor organisations to have a joint conference in this area on the topic of urban outdoors. Oslo is the capital of Europe that grows most. Green areas, free areas to contribute to physical activity, are becoming smaller and smaller in the largest cities in the Nordic region. It's an important topic that was well received by the Nordic ministers when we presented this. The second theme is sports and sports. The Nordic Sports Associations have a joint meeting each year. Now we are going to try to have a new joint meeting with the Nordic ministers and parliamentarians in this area on issues such as combat fixation and anti-doping – the Norwegian Minister of Culture is now Europe’s representative in the international WADA regime – issues that are common challenges ahead. It is about gambling policy, about international sporting events, and not least about public health and physical activity. The last point is to have a common Nordic cultural school bag, in line with the Norwegian, to promote e.g. the Nordic prizes we have: the film prize, the literature prize, the children's and young people's literature prize, the music prize, etc. In this way we promote Nordic prices, they become better known, but not least the Nordic languages are promoted, so that children and young people become familiar with them. This was well received by the Nordic cultural ministers at the meeting we had in Stockholm last year. I hope that the Minister of Cooperation will also be able to follow up these issues, and that the Norwegian delegation may have discussions about the priorities that the Committee has in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e494	Very well said, and the Nordic Council obviously still has a role to play if, I would add, the work concentrates. However, perhaps the threshold for making proposals to the Council of Ministers should be slightly higher, in the sense that it is not going to end up as a defence of resolution, where the Council of Ministers chooses to disregard the recommendations. The basis for doing something in a common Nordic context must be that there is added value for the cooperating countries, i.e. that it triggers a greater Nordic utility. One of these areas was the area that Eldegard took up, namely cross-border transport, which I also believe has a significant potential. There has been a revitalisation of cooperation on security and defence issues. Despite the lack of cooperation between the Council of Ministers in this area, the Nordic Council continues to lead these issues up to debate. That makes the Nordic debate more vital and interesting in many ways. But it is important from Norway that this is done within the framework of Atlantic defence cooperation through NATO. In other words, Nordic cooperation will primarily be technical, operational and economic. The current system within NORDEFCO is in good development. It is a matter of practical, pragmatic cooperation based on identified needs in the defence organisations of the countries, and Norway had the Presidency in 2014. In addition, Nordic cooperation is driving Sweden and Finland’s approach to NATO – a positive added value for all of us in the Nordic region. While addressing the need for security policy challenges in the context of NATO, regional cooperation in the Nordic region will clearly bring benefits. A major conflict in the Nordic region will necessarily affect all Nordic countries, and a joint coordinated effort will be a strength. This should not, of course, be confused with an alternative security guarantee. In the opinion of the Right, the Nordic countries have no independent capacity to guarantee their own security. In everyday life, however, local cooperation with neighbouring countries will be possible. The same applies to some patrol and surveillance tasks. Cooperation is also relevant in the fields of power generation mergers, such as education, material maintenance, material investment and exercises. The fact that we are now extending this cooperation to the Baltic countries is very positive and welcome there. So from the Right, we look positively at this pragmatic cooperation, and my impression is that cooperation is going well because it comes out of a common need in the different countries, but we make it clear that it has to happen in a way that is more powerful than weakens our NATO relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e507	The Arctic is important. For the red-green government it was specifically expressed that the north was the main strategic area of government. The rhetoric of the Right-Fremskritspart-government has been downgraded. It's noticed with us who live and live in the north. I would like to draw the attention of Stortinget to a report entitled How can Norway, Sweden and Finland achieve sustainable growth in the Scandinavian Arctic? It was submitted in January this year. This report has been prepared by three representatives from Norway, Sweden and Finland. From the Norwegian side, the representative is Anne Husebeck, Vice-Chancellor at UiT, Norwegian Arctic University. The report defines four growth drivers and four instruments that governments in Norway, Sweden and Finland can use to ensure sustainable economic growth in the northern regions. The drivers are: firstly LNG and renewable energy sources. The second driver is more environmentally friendly solutions in the mining industry. The third is increased tourism, and the fourth is solutions to ice and cold problems. The report also points to four instruments that governments can use. The first is common framework conditions, removal of frontier barriers, coordination of building regulations in the areas and borderless public services. The second instrument is the common talent and labour market, harmonising training requirements and introducing new solutions between national labour market parliaments, and exploiting even better development programmes and common training. The third instrument is a common long-term transport and infrastructure plan, so that it is possible to travel — not down into the country and then across the country, but across the country. The latter is a common voice on Arctic issues, with common objectives and joint lobbying in Brussels. It is up to the government to follow up these concrete proposals from this report. From the Labour Party we call for words to become action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e527	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e541	In this case, we are dealing with a new law on foreign service. The law defines the purpose of the EEAS and the organisation of foreign stations, including staff, requirements, obligations and the exercise of powers at foreign stations. The new law regulates the same areas as the current law on the EEAS of 2002, but changes have been made, in particular with regard to the definitions of different personnel groups and their obligations. Editorial changes have also been made to give the law a logical structure, and then the language has been modernised. The new law, like the law in force, states that the purpose of the EEAS is to promote Norwegian interests and to provide assistance to Norwegian citizens. In addition, it is clarified that the tasks of the EEAS also involve the preservation and support of Norwegian business abroad. The law on external service is of particular importance in clarifying the different categories of staff at foreign stations. The main distinction goes between posted and locally employed personnel. The law leads to simplification by the deletion of the names ‘professional’ and ‘dispatched administrative staff’ and is now covered by the term ‘dispatched foreign official’. This results in in particular from the extension of the mobility requirement to all permanent staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who leave for more than one year, thus strengthening the scope of action required by the Ministry to fill and dispose of posts at foreign stations. Local staff at foreign stations perform a wide range of tasks at foreign stations. The law we are adopting today proposes to remove today's formal restriction where these are only to be considered administrative personnel. It is clarified in the new law that they are employed directly at foreign stations. It shows recognition of the importance of the specific competences of local staff. The removal obligation is a central part of the external service's mandate, and this statutory audit will provide the Ministry with the necessary room for action to fill positions at foreign stations. It is also important that clarifications relating to the requirements, duties and exercise of powers have been put in place for different personnel groups in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is a unanimous committee which supports the establishment of a new law and, in the Committee's view, changes will entail the necessary modernisation of existing law and lead to administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e560	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e576	A short week ago – last Thursday – probably came a bad news from Baku. The well - known journalist Seymur Hazi from the opposition newspaper Azadliq was sentenced to five years in prison. The official charge was drug possession. The real reason is his critical journalism. Just under three weeks ago, on January 15th in Sheki District, the Vice-Chairman of the opposition party Azerbaijan's People's Front, Ali Abdullaev, was arrested and sentenced to 30 days' imprisonment. The official charge was opposition to the police. The real reason is the campaign to set free the famous grave journalist Khadija Ismayilova, who was held in December for two months. The official charge against her was that she should have driven a person to attempted suicide. Just since I filed this interview with the Minister of Foreign Affairs late in 2014, there have been six new names on the list of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. In addition, 15 people have been fined or have had so-called administrative reactions. We also know of Anar Mammadli, who was sentenced to five and a half years in prison in May 2014. Mammadli leads Azerbaijan’s most recognized election observation organization and was in fact imprisoned for his critical reports on the undemocratic elections in Azerbaijan. We also know the story of Rasul Jafarov, who was imprisoned in the summer of 2014 and risks years in prison. Jafarov became known for the much-mentioned ‘Sing for Democracy’ campaign when Eurovision Song Contest was held in Baku in 2012. 13 journalists and bloggers, 10 human rights defenders and lawyers and nine youth activists and central opposition leaders form part of the ever-increasing list of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. Local human rights activists, using the criteria of the Council of Europe, have identified over 90 political prisoners in the country. The official charges against Mammandli, Jafarov, Abdullaev and the other political prisoners vary from possession of drugs and weapons to financial default and violence against the police. The real reason for the arrests is a completely different one. The Norwegian Helsinki Committee tells me that the Azerbaijani authorities have for a number of years crushed their critics by accusing them of notional crimes and then sentenced them to long prison sentences. What is alarming — and which is the background to this interpellation — is the accelerating negative development. Azerbaijan is going at full speed in the wrong direction. Following the accession of Azerbaijan to the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee in spring 2014, it is reported that the authorities launched an arrest wave that hit many of the most important leaders in the country's democratic civil society. Others are driven into exile or have gone underground. This occurred at the same time as further tightening of the law specifying the framework for the work of civil society, such as: imposes strong restrictions on the possibility of receiving funding from abroad. The Norwegian Helsinki Committee has expressed great concern about the developments and the award of Sakharov's prize of freedom to political prisoners in Azerbaijan this autumn. Democratic civil society in Azerbaijan is in a short time almost shattered. The alarm should call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when, in such a short time, one of Norway’s co-operation countries experiences a worsening of human rights situation. The individual’s freedom and participation are impaired, the rule of law and legal certainty are deteriorated and freedom of expression is restricted. Point by point the central human rights are put to the test. It is – and it should be – the responsibility of the State to protect human rights and prevent all forms of discrimination and violence. So what does Norway do now when Azerbaijan – a country with which we cooperate – is at full speed in the wrong direction? I promoted this interpellation to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs on what the government will actually do to the Azerbaijani authorities. For what can be done in concrete terms? In December, the government presented the ‘Facilities for all — human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy’. It has now survived the Stortinget. There the government writes that one sees a gap between the commitments made by the states and the enforcement of human rights in practice. One acknowledges that in many places there is increased pressure on human rights, especially civil and political rights such as freedom of expression and assembly. One of these places is Azerbaijan. One more writes: ‘Non-respect for human rights is an infringement of individuality, and may also weaken and impede social development with very negative consequences over time, local, national and international.’ Among other things, one describes: Azerbaijan. 40 organizations, UD writes, have recorded nearly 400 proposals for this big message. With so many good suggestions to choose from, I have great hopes of what the Foreign Minister has with him of concrete proposals here today. The situation in Azerbaijan is a golden opportunity to make words of action, to translate good, round goals into concrete and clear action. My commitment to Azerbaijan comes from the work of the Norwegian delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly here on the Stortinget. This delegation has been particularly committed to the situation in Azerbaijan. We have repeatedly addressed the situation of the Azerbaijani delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and we met among others. journalists and human rights activists during the main session of the OSCE PA in Baku, Azerbaijan, in the summer of 2014. We have been active outdoors among fellow parliamentarians, but it was also important for us to take the work from the OSCE PA home to Norway. Therefore, this interpellation, therefore, this debate on what Norway can do in concrete terms – I believe it is important that we improve on these links. I have also noticed much of the same commitment to the Norwegian delegation to the Council of Europe and the IPU. So I hope the Foreign Minister in particular can say something about how the government wants to strengthen the work of the OSCE and the Council of Europe in this area. Democratic civil society in Azerbaijan is in a short time almost shattered. In 2014, the authorities launched a wave of arrests. The list of political prisoners is growing every week. Others are driven into exile or have gone underground. Point by point, human rights are tested. I would therefore urge the Foreign Minister to respond to what he will actually do to the Azerbaijani authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e619	I share Mr Tvedt Solberg's concern about the human rights situation in Azerbaijan. Recently, media, opposition and civil society have experienced increasing pressure from security authorities, police and prosecution authorities. A number of people are imprisoned or subjected to violence. At the same time, there is strong doubt about the independence of the courts. From the Norwegian side, we have repeatedly clearly expressed our concern. We have asked for journalists and human rights defenders to be released, and we have called for the civil society of the country to develop freely. Since independence in 1991, Azerbaijan has faced significant challenges. The country has a demanding neighborhood. Parts of the territory of the country are occupied. Since the war on Nagorno-Karabakh, hundreds of thousands of internally displaced people have been taken care of for decades. The starting point for developing a well-functioning democracy has not been the best. But let me make it quite clear: none of this can serve as an excuse for a development that has long gone in the wrong direction in terms of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Several countries in the former Soviet territory — countries that are also in difficult neighbourhoods and also facing major challenges — have managed to take important steps in the right direction. This shows that it is possible. Unfortunately, we are seeing developments in Azerbaijan and in several other former Soviet republics, not least in Russia, which are moving in a negative direction. The Baku authorities are committed to maintaining stability within the Azerbaijani community. However, this should also be a further incentive to ensure that the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens are respected, not the opposite. Living civil society, free media and spaces of inconsistency ensure a more well-functioning society – which in the next round contributes to stability. The same applies to the development of a judiciary that has the confidence of its citizens. Azerbaijan has made clear commitments in these areas – as a member of the UN, the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, on which the representative was involved. These obligations must be complied with. We must make the same demands for Azerbaijan as for any other Member State. On a number of important points, these commitments are not being fulfilled in Azerbaijan today. The national authorities must be held responsible for this. The inter-pellant refers to the recent call for proposals on human rights, the first communication on human rights in foreign and development policy of 15 years. The Communication reflects the crucial importance that the government attaches to the promotion of fundamental human rights, as a basis for positive and sustainable social development, for stability and security. Human rights are often like the canary we know from the mine: when it goes in the wrong direction with regard to human rights and respect for fundamental rights, there is an indication that there is a society that is weakening. Among other things, I am very concerned about what we have now seen of deterioration in Azerbaijan over the past few weeks, something that interpellant struck. In our dialogue with Azerbaijan, it is important to take advantage of the meeting places we have through the country's membership of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. These are organisations in which Azerbaijan has assumed fundamental obligations, which I was in the process of doing. Organisations provide a good framework both to address the challenges in these fields and to provide assistance in meeting their obligations. We – Norway – are one of the few countries that have addressed the situation in Azerbaijan on several occasions in the UN Human Rights Council. It is the heaviest body for this type of question. We will continue to raise this in the UN Human Rights Council. When Azerbaijan ended its presidency in the Council of Europe, we, together with our Nordic neighbours, stood behind a common post in which there was clear criticism of the development of the country through its presidency. The work of the OSCE provides a regular opportunity to discuss topical issues in the Member States – with authority representatives from the country concerned. Here too, Norway's view is clearly expressed. I personally raised Norway's concerns with Azerbaijan's Minister for Foreign Affairs at the meeting of foreign ministers in Basel before Christmas. At least as important as dialogue — if necessary, critical dialogue — is to support efforts to improve the situation, including: by supporting civil society and other actors promoting the values on which it has committed itself to building. Over many years, Norway has provided such support — and through several channels — through our development assistance. In particular, the Council of Europe can assist in a good way. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, is very concerned about this issue, and he has the full support of Norway to continue to ‘trapped’ in this matter. This requires, however, that the country’s own authorities be prepared for such cooperation. Norway supports the Council of Europe action plan for Azerbaijan and hopes for a real dialogue between the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, and President Aliyev in Baku. We hope that this cooperation will develop to provide a basis for increasing our contribution to this work. Furthermore, from the Norwegian side, we have long tried to support the emergence of a living Azerbaijani civil society. This is today under strong pressure, which the interpellant was in. Unfortunately, new legislation has made it very difficult to provide direct financial support to Azerbaijani non-governmental organisations, as we now experience in Russia. In the previous debate, even the Nordic Council representative office in St. Petersburg was forced to register as a foreign agent. It's totally unacceptable. There are limits to Norway’s support and activity when this type of restriction is set by the authorities. In addition, over many years we have supported – on the positive side – Norwegian organisations that are making valuable efforts in Azerbaijan. We'll keep doing that. Their cooperation with Azerbaijani partners has unfortunately become more difficult. However, they have not given up, and we will continue to give up our support for these positive forces. In this work, we must at the same time see the limitations of our ability to influence. We've seen that for years. The Storing Message describes a number of tools in the toolbox, and we use them. We'll keep doing that. We will continue to use the channels and forums at our disposal to address challenges related to human rights – through our direct political dialogue as well as in the international framework. We will continue to contribute to the greatest possible combined pressure from the international community to improve the situation of the Azerbaijani people, for civil society, for human rights fighters, who are under great pressure. And we will continue to contribute to concrete actions and projects, which are directed at civil society, Norwegian organisations or through actors such as the Council of Europe. The support for human rights defenders is a central part of this, which I was in the midst of. We have no guarantees of rapid progress in Azerbaijan – but our commitment to the impact of human rights is long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e663	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I am especially pleased that he shares my concern for the negative developments, and that he sees that Azerbaijan is at full speed in the wrong direction. I am particularly pleased to hear that the Foreign Minister himself had a talk with the Foreign Minister from Azerbaijan about this. "If freedom means anything, it means the right to tell people what they don't want to hear." This George Orwell quote from Animal Farm used the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself in a chronicle in today's business on January 13 after the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris. In that chronicle, the Foreign Minister wrote that we must protect journalists and employees, we must combat impunity and attacks against those who promote the free word. We're already doing a lot, but we're going to step up the effort further. This chronicle gave me hopes for this debate. Stepping up the effort further had to mean something. The answers to the foreign minister here today show that one may have finished the foundation of the first step, but much remains before one has stepped up. Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also seen this accelerating negative development, I assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has re-assessed the negative situation that is now developing. I therefore hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his next post can become even more clear on what concrete measures you are now working with, especially in the light of the negative developments we have seen in the spring, summer and autumn – measures you have not worked with before, and perhaps reflect the seriousness of the current situation. It's another element that I think it's worth drawing out. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the neighbourhood of Azerbaijan and the former Soviet countries in his speech. It happens very well, but something also goes in the wrong direction. As I see it, the situation in Azerbaijan begins to be frightening like the one we've seen for a long time in Belarus. In autumn 2014, the EU extended its 20-year-old sanctions against Belarus. Norway followed suit. The reason was that the regime in Minsk has not done enough to improve human rights in the country. One has political prisoners, and one has not had respect for human rights and legal certainty. Several organisations have now suggested that such sanctions be assessed against Azerbaijan. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's views on this and, if so, what role he thinks Norway can play in such a discussion. I would once again like to thank the Foreign Minister for his answers and hope that he will be able to address these two questions in his next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e678	The situation in Azerbaijan is worrying, and it has evolved in a clearly negative direction in recent times, as I said in my reply to the interpellant. Norway has already taken the lead in the prosecution of human rights violations in Azerbaijan. We will continue this, and there is no doubt that over the past few weeks we have stepped up our reactions as well when we see that human rights champions are being treated in an entirely unacceptable way. We will continue, as I said, to address the situation in Azerbaijan in the UN Human Rights Council, where Norway has been one of the leaders. There will also be new opportunities in the future for the OSCE, and not least there will be a Foreign Minister meeting in the Council of Europe in May where the issue of Azerbaijan, developments in Azerbaijan and the negative developments in Azerbaijan should and will be on the agenda, at least Norway wants it. We must continue to support the small civil society that is left in Azerbaijan. It becomes more difficult for the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do so, but we will try every opportunity through our embassy in Baku and through a very clear effort. We will also help to continue support through what is of human rights organisations and civil society in Norway working towards Azerbaijan. I will continue to take up the situation in the country also politically with colleagues, and not least with the Azerbaijani authorities when the occasion comes. We cannot sit and watch in the 21st century that a European country, a country that is close to us through its membership of the Council of Europe and of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is driving in such a clear negative direction. I believe that, in the future, we will need to consider different measures, not least in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. When Sweden's Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, comes to Norway in a week's time, the matter and developments in Azerbaijan are on the agenda, and we will consider further Nordic coordination and voice in Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e692	Let me first commend the interpellant to promote this interpellation. I myself am a member of the European Council delegation and have become acquainted with Azerbaijan in that role. Azerbaijan has been a member of the Council of Europe since 2001. When entering the European Human Rights Organisation, all countries sign that they should respect the values on which the Council of Europe is founded — democracy, the principles of the rule of law and the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as a number of other conventions dealing with human rights. The Council of Europe is the only pan-European organisation we have. The only country that is not yet a member is Belarus, which the interpellant was in. An agreement with the EU is also being worked out to ensure that the EU accedes to the European Convention on Human Rights, so that the work on human rights is coordinated between the two organisations and can thus become even more powerful than if one were to walk and intercede in each other's bed. Membership of the Council of Europe is, as I said, voluntary. Member States take on a voluntary basis the obligations of membership. The advantage for the peoples of the Member States is that they are protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and may bring an infringement before the European Court of Human Rights. It may be a long way for some countries to go in terms of fulfilling their membership obligations, but they are not alone in this work – the Council of Europe is providing top international expertise in terms of both constitutional work, other legislation, assistance in implementing elections, assistance in building state institutions, an independent judiciary and ensuring that the principle of power-sharing between legislators, executives and judicial authorities becomes a reality. In addition, the Parliamentary Assembly has its own committee, which is only responsible for monitoring and reporting on the progress of those countries which are not yet in target. Sometimes, unfortunately, the task is to report a decline. In Azerbaijan, the situation has gotten worse and worse, as the previous speakers have pointed out. Journalists and human rights champions are being harassed and imprisoned. We remember the NRK journalist during the Melodi Grand Prix who was forced to shoot the Iranian flag, while it was all filmed. We remember Nasibova, who received the Raffo Prize in 2009. As a result, two of her children now live as political refugees in Norway. The human rights activist Leyla Yunus is now in prison. The premises of the Human Rights House are closed and destroyed. And we could just keep doing that. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the Presidency of the Council of Europe is circulating among the Member States. Azerbaijan has just finished its presidency. Everyone had hoped that the extra search light would lead to a improvement, but the opposite happened – things got worse. It ended with the Council of Europe stopping all scheduled events and meeting in Azerbaijan during the Presidency period. It was simply embarrassing for the Council of Europe as an organisation. Every time we're in Strasbourg, we meet different human rights champions. The Azerbaijani are often represented, but what is now happening is that we feel that the people we've met are being imprisoned as soon as they're back. Ismayilova, the journalist who was harassed by the fact that surveillance footage from her own bedroom was published publicly, is one of them. The head of the monitoring committee, Stefan Schennach of Austria, experienced that three people with whom he met in Strasbourg in October now all in prison. He intends to travel there to demand that they be set free. The question is whether he can get it done. Azerbaijan is also doing everything they can to pierce the wheels of the Council of Europe's work in the country. Rapporteurs are purchased, literally, members of the Parliamentary Assembly are purchased, reporters are refused visas to the country. Former members of our Parliamentary Assembly suddenly appear as active lobbyists from nowhere. We receive invitations for celebrations with all expenses for travel and stay paid. It is entirely systematic as Azerbaijan goes on – they have no desire to fulfil their membership obligations. I feel that we are facing a cynicism that almost makes us a little powerless. That's why I think the interpellation here today is exciting, so I think the link to the big message of human rights is exciting, where the main message is that we have to use the points of contact we have bilaterally and in international organisations. The most important thing we can do, as the Foreign Minister said, is perhaps to support civil society and coordinate ourselves better when we raise issues about Azerbaijan in the various international forums where we are, so that it comes coordinated, clear and clear. Finally, I would like to remind you that we also have some business relations, including: via Statoil, and we can see if it might be possible to influence that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e713	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic for debate, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for very clear and good answers. The human rights situation in Azerbaijan is worrying and has gone from bad to worse. More concrete examples of this have been mentioned here today. It is particularly serious that the negative developments have been parallel to the fact that Azerbaijan has held the Presidency of the Council of Europe. In a meeting with the winners of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom here at Stortinget in November, the delegation from Azerbaijan invited Norwegian parliamentarians to take up the human rights situation at all levels. It is therefore commendable that the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the OSCE wrote a letter to the Azerbaijani President in December expressing particular concern for human rights activist Leyla Yunus. The response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Azerbaijan on 23 January is far from reassuring. On the contrary, violations of fundamental democratic rights, abuses and offences are denied. Although the country has a broken history and location in a conflict area, it is unacceptable for a country that is now a member of the OSCE, the European Parliament and the United Nations to violate fundamental rule of law. And as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, pressing against human rights is often the first sign of a country developing in the wrong direction. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses in his answers the importance of critical dialogue. We also note that Norway is one of the few countries that have addressed the situation in Azerbaijan in the UN Human Rights Council. I trust that the government will follow the matter closely on all natural arenas. Unfortunately, we are within a period of increased pressure on human rights, political and civil rights and democracy, not only in Azerbaijan, but in a number of countries, as a result of war and conflict. Several of today’s conflicts are marked by increased complexity, increased brutality, and terrible abuses to the civilian population. There have been more refugees than ever since World War II and many humanitarian crises. This shows that we cannot take our fundamental values as a state of law and democracy for granted. The government has therefore announced a change of pace in its efforts. The first 15-year report on human rights came in December and is now under treatment here in the United Kingdom. It is positive that human rights should now be integrated into all foreign and development policies. Respect for human rights is a foreign policy objective, but it is also a means of achieving sustainable development and security. The government’s emphasis on education is also at the heart of the work on human rights, and the effort is strengthened by a figure of 550 million. kr in next year’s budget – then with a special focus on children in war and conflict. In addition, we should not forget that the EEA funds are also a very important instrument for social and economic cohesion in Europe and must support under fundamental European values such as democracy, human rights, non-discrimination and equality. It is very important to make clear requirements for beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance on the willingness to progress in human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It is not least important to continue to respond to serious human rights violations, to which the situation in Azerbaijan is an example. At all levels, we must continue to work to protect and strengthen human rights as universal and inviolable rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e730	First of all, thank you to the interpellant Solberg for addressing this matter. We share an engagement in Azerbaijan and the development of human rights there, which the Norwegian OSCE delegation has followed closely and over a little longer. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his reply to the interpellant. It is good to see that the Foreign Minister shares the concern we have for the development of Azerbaijan. I think that perhaps precisely because Norway also has financial interests in Azerbaijan, through Statoil, Norway should, in my view, take a leading role in the dialogue with the Azerbaijani authorities and also anchor it, as the Foreign Minister says, among other things. in the Nordic countries. In our dialogue with the Azerbaijani authorities, we in the OSCE delegation have also been very concerned about anchoring it not only in the Norwegian delegation but also in our countries of cooperation, countries that share our values in many ways. Any contact to the Azerbaijani authorities has been anchored in our Nordic and Baltic cooperation, so that not only Norway is behind our enquiries to the Azerbaijani authorities, we have also received good support from our Nordic and Baltic friends. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that the human rights are the canary in the coal mine. Unfortunately, in Azerbaijan the air in this country has become much thinner. For oppositionals, for journalists who are critical, and for NGOs, breathing has become difficult. That is why it is so important that we keep a strong focus on dialogue and contact with the Azerbaijani authorities. We from the parliamentary team are going to do our job, and I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that he, too, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will follow up. My great concern is that we have major conflicts and crises in the world. We have Boko Haram in Africa, we have ISIL, and we have the crisis in Ukraine, which gets the whole world's attention. In the face of these major crises, it is my concern that countries such as the United States and the United States, such as the United States, will be able to cope with the crisis. Azerbaijan can go from bad to worse in terms of human rights, because they feel confident that the world's attention is not directed at them. But just in such a situation, it is important that we as individual countries, and together with others, do not forget these small countries that think they can operate freely without paying attention to them. I think that's important to take on board in the work. We were contacted by the Helsinki Committee over a year ago. That was a very specific matter. Anar Mammadli, who runs an election observation office in Azerbaijan, had been held in custody and with very fictional charges. We discussed this with our parliamentary colleagues in the Azerbaijani delegation at the OSCE winter meeting one year ago. It was quite striking to hear the answer they gave, because they agreed in many ways on the description of the human rights situation in Azerbaijan. Then, of course, we had to be a little patient, because this was a new democracy. But they were going to take this up, and they were very concerned that it was going to be a fair trial, as the world's attention was focused on just this. It ended with Anar Mammandli being imprisoned for five and a half years, and it is quite sad to see how the situation has also been for several other human rights activists, also mentioned by name in this debate. It goes from bad to worse in Azerbaijan, and we owe them a lot of attention – even though there are other crises in the world that get the world's attention. We're going to continue working on the situation in Azerbaijan from our point of view. It is also gratifying to see that the Council of Europe is just as on the ball as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e743	First of all, I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate. All the posts that have been held here now have supported the fact that the situation in Azerbaijan has deteriorated considerably lately. It shows that this is an important debate to address, not least that we see what Azerbaijan is doing, and that it does not go unnoticed. Although the involvement of the Chamber may not have been overwhelming, I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is left with the impression that the Norwegian delegations, both in the OSCE and in the Council of Europe, follow closely the development of the situation in Azerbaijan. We will continue to engage in this matter in the respective forums and at the same time continue to take such debates home. We must, as the representative Rodum Agdestein said, be coordinated at all levels. I think it is interesting that the Foreign Minister mentioned this with Nordic cooperation and that someone will take an initiative in this regard. And as the representative Becquerad said, we already have this in the OSCE. I hope that Norway will take a leading role in developing such cooperation, and I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be able to comment briefly on it as well. I would once again like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. They show that one also sees the situation that is, and not least that one is on the ball and has concrete, good ideas in the toolbox. The stuttering message mentioned is now in Stortinget. I hope the treatment in Stortinget will strengthen the toolbox that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can use further. I'm also excited about what the result of such Nordic cooperation can be, and I'm going to follow it, and I hope the dialogue between the government and the Stortinget can continue in this matter, so that we can be coordinated at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e758	I would like to add myself to the range of those who thank the interpellant, Tvedt Solberg, for addressing the matter. It is unfortunately very timely, because the development in Azerbaijan has gone in the wrong direction over several years, but the last year and the last six months there has been an increasing persecution of human rights defenders, and there have been further restrictions on civil society, which is important to address. I would also like to commend the various parliamentary delegations of the Great Britain for following up this matter, both through the Council of Europe and through the OSCE. It shows that the Storting and Parliamentary Delegations have a not insignificant agenda-setting opportunity through these meetings, and it is noted in the countries against which this commitment is being played out. I think you might notice this in Azerbaijan, and as it was mentioned, there is also an active business on the part of Azerbaijan to dampen that kind of activity. We can't accept that. I think the parliamentary delegations have shown the same, very important, commitment to international law violations and violations of the UN Charter by Russia. These are also things that we have to take very seriously. The Council of Europe shall meet at the Foreign Minister’s level during the spring. I hope that Azerbaijan can come on the agenda there, and that it will be properly addressed also with our people working towards the Council of Europe. As I said, I will discuss this with Sweden's Foreign Minister in a week's time, and I will discuss it with the Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs next week, to see if we can do more in a Nordic context. But I can guarantee the interpellant that in the UN Human Rights Council Norway will still be the country that has a very clear line in terms of Azerbaijan. Several have noticed the Norwegian involvement, not least because we have significant Norwegian investments in Azerbaijan through not least Statoil. This shows that Norway is willing to address violations of human rights even where we do not have insignificant financial investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e772	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e786	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e797	The consideration of the ownership notification by the Committee may in fact be summed up by a broad consensus on the general principles governing the management of state ownership. Most of the time, the government has got through, and I would like to thank the Committee and especially the Christian People's Party and the Left for their constructive cooperation. There has been quite a heated debate in the media about a few selected companies. The mandates requested for the Kongsberg Group and the Flytrain are deferred until the framework conditions have been established and put in place, but any sale has not been stopped. With regard to the third issue of conflict, Statskog, I believe that the discussion has been largely related to something that was not proposed. The ownership message never asked for an authorisation. It is set out in the notification for an investigation initiated. The investigation is being conducted and the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to debate the conclusion once the government has decided. These matters have overshadowed the important and central issues. Norway, through several governments and by adapting to changing demands and societal developments, has developed a highly professional and predictable state ownership. It is based on the foundation of the categorisation of the companies according to the purpose of the State with its ownership and on the principles of good ownership by the State. For these principles, the government has the full support of the Storting. It's very happy. The state’s principles of good ownership are central. The State undertakes to govern by decision of the general meeting, the non-discrimination of all shareholders and other key governance principles. Clear lines of responsibility are drawn between day-to-day management, the responsibilities of the board and the role of the owner. The question is, of course, – when you read some of the comments – if, among other things. The working party understood its contents. The government and we are very clear that we have expectations of the companies in terms of social responsibility. Social responsibility is important in the public debate. It includes a wide range of themes: climate, human rights, child labour, corruption — to name a few. But when the Workers' Party proposes that the Stortinge should deal with recruitment strategies in the companies, it's amazing that you don't see the conflict with the governance principles. Then it's good to know that this government expresses far higher expectations of the companies than the red-green ones ever did. With this, we are quickly involved in the many roles of the state. In the role of owner, the State shall govern through a general meeting. The action space is obviously limited. Size debates cannot go straight into the control room. Ownership is important. It is the owner who demands the board of directors to develop the companies. Ownership and equity are central to the development of future jobs. We are very pleased that an overall committee agrees that private ownership is the bearer of Norwegian value creation. State, foreign and a variety of private Norwegian ownership constitute a whole that, in total, has been important for the development of the level of well-being we have in Norway. Compared to all the countries with which we compare, Norway stands out as being very committed through ownership and role in business. The private, diverse Norwegian ownership needs to be strengthened. The reduction of the discriminatory wealth tax on the local Norwegian multiplicity of private ownership is important for this government, but there is reason to rejoice that a unanimous committee joins proposals aimed at strengthening diversity and private ownership in general. This is important in order to ensure an understanding of business activities and its importance for future well-being. The ownership message is a good message. It is not a sales notification, but focuses on the fact that the ownership of the country should be justified in addition to the commercial one. Where there are only business reasons for ownership, others can do a job as good or better than the state. Instead, the State should focus on its primary regulatory and supervisory role. It is a strength that there is a great consensus on the principles in this Chamber. The government can enjoy the connection. I address the proposals made by the majority and look forward to an important debate on fundamental issues for the development of our future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e820	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e825	The representative of Gundersen has on several occasions tried to present it as if what the government is proposing is a roundabout sale of State Forest on the same line as the red-green proposal. In the announcement, the government says that their goal is to sell the area corresponding to what State Forest has purchased, i.e. 1.1 million measures, approx. one quarter of the productive forest area of State forest. In addition, it is said in debates that hunting, fishing and outdoor interests should not be affected. Can the representative Gundersen explain what is the Right definition of a roundabout sale? And can the representative Gundersen from the landowners' party on the Right guarantee that public access to hunting, fishing and outdoors is not affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e830	To the last one, no, that's what's part of the investigation. We'll wait and see what Statskog answers. But I think the question is interesting, with the representative of Omland saying 'on the same line'. When the red-greens released this sale, the title was «Historical forest sales». In the notification issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, hunting, fishing and outdoor activities were not even mentioned. That's pretty interesting. So we haven't put out for sale on the same line. We have given a clear message to Statskog to investigate how hunting, fishing and outdoor life will be affected. And then we're going to have to wait for the investigation before we answer that question. I'll meet that investigation with a lot of excitement, and then we'll see. But as I said, it was not mentioned at all when the red-greens released the sale. It amazes me that it was not then also debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e835	I want to follow up a little bit on Statskog, because at NTB we have been able to read several times that the representative Gundersen is talking about one here adding up to the sale of small forest parcels to local owners. When I ask the Minister of Agriculture whether it is appropriate to privatise and sell all or part of Statskog SF, I get the answer that it is not relevant to privatise and sell the whole. So there's an opening there because the government can imagine a sale of parts of Statskog SF. Then is my question to the representative of Gundersen, who is concerned about the sale of small forest land to local landowners – which I think is good: Can the representative of Gundersen cancel or confirm that the Right is willing to privatise parts of the State Forest SF?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e840	It's important to know what we're talking about here. It's never been about selling the whole state forest. It has never been mentioned in our investigation manual. State forest has huge mountain, outland and unproductive areas. There's State Forest on 25 pst. of the area of Norway. What we're talking about here is 0.7 pst. of the area of Norway, which is the productive forest area of State Forest. There we've started an investigation on how to privatize it, and there's the Center Party and I totally agree. Preferably, I would like to see it as an advantage if this could be used to strengthen the local nutrient base for local farmers. We'll have to wait for the investigation and see. State forest will come with its investigation, and then we will certainly get a debate about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e845	It is a mandate for this investigation. I thought the Right Party and the Center agreed that strengthening local ownership was central. But if a reader in the mandate given by the government to State Forests, it says that maximizing the values of the state should be used as a basis for further work. So here's what we're going to do, maximizing the values of the state. There is nothing to say that it should be based on what I believe would have been right, namely the consideration of local ownership and value creation. What's the reason why you're so busy with the state up there? Should not one have also said that it is the consideration of the local and private ownership that will lead the process and of the mission that Statskog has now received?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e850	This is a very interesting question, and here, I'm sure, separates the Right Party and the Center Party, because we have strong confidence in the local government. We believe it has clear competitive advantage, and it could pay the best. It is also the experience of the sales round that has been carried out. They have sold 273,000 deacons, half of what the Red-Green Government's mandate was on, and I think there was 69 pst. which had been sold to private owners residing in the municipality in which the cadastral parcel is located. 13 pst. sold to the State for protection. About 10 pst. were sold to municipal forests, and 8 pst. have been sold unconstructed. The centre party should come to the conclusion that the locally anchored ownership has a clear competitive advantage in managing this resource, and they are going to win no matter what prerequisites we set. But the goal is for it to go to local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e859	It's an important matter we're going to debate today – state ownership. It's about our common ownership of important natural resources. It is about controlling important infrastructure and ownership in enterprises that ensure value creation, industrial development and safe jobs. The government presented its ownership message in June requesting a number of sales mandates. Many have referred to this message as a sales message, where the reduction of state ownership is an objective in itself. Why is the government going to sell? We have asked for an answer to this question since the message came, but we believe that the government has little reason why it should sell out state companies, in addition to making postulates that the state owns too much, and that power has to be spread. Norway does not need short-term disposable income and the spread of property on foreign hands. On the contrary, we want an active, dynamic, professional and long-term state ownership that can provide sustainable income and ensure a strategic development of Norwegian business. In reality, large sales are irreversible and long-term losses for the community. The government will reduce the direct ownership of the country and will sell in all eight companies referred to as commercial companies. In that group we find both the Flytrain and the Railway Service. We believe that these companies should be moved to category 3, which also has sectoral policy objectives. Most people have probably come to realize that the government wants to sell the Flytrain, on the grounds that there are no specific reasons why the State should be a long-term owner of the company, but the Stortinget would otherwise. Now it focuses on the company’s role as an important player in future collective offerings in the Oslo region. We are pleased about that, but there is reason to ask why this has not been rewritten at all in the ownership message. In the Workers' Party, we are also wondering about the authority that the government wanted to attach to the Kongsberg Group – and this without considering the strategic aspects by opening up to new owners in a company that represents important defence technology. During the hearing, particular reference was made to the defence position of the Kongsberg Group as the developer and supplier of so-called multi-use technology under export control, and that it would be unfortunate if a non-alliert was given control of a major holding. Now we see that the government parties are turning around and agree that this needs to be clarified before the mandate can be given. This should be known to the government and assessed in advance of the notification. That really shows bad political craftsmanship. The Workers' Party believes that the sale of Telenor may have emergency consequences which should have been given a more comprehensive strategic assessment before entering into any sale. A current share of ownership offers opportunities to invest in industrial solutions and strategies for Telenor. Both the Kongsberg Group and Telenor signaled in the hearing that it should also be a matter for the state to possibly buy up in these companies. However, this ownership message does not have a faint signal that it may be relevant to buy up in any of the companies – a clear signal that dynamic ownership is not the leader of today’s government. Then to Statskog. In the Workers' Party, we are not opposed to the sale of smaller parts of the forest, as our government has arranged through the arrondering sale after the purchase of Borregaard Forest for a few years. But we do not support ideologically controlled large-scale sales of State Forest properties, as the government states in its orders regarding State Forest investigations. Having a large state forest ownership will be an important driver in the development of the forest industry here in the country also in the years to come. The working party is positive in reducing ownership of SAS – in whole or in part if there is an industrial solution for SAS that is positive. This Communication and the work around this Communication have shown clear political lines between the Government Parties and, at least, the Workers' Party and, to a large extent, the Centre Party. The working party wants a dynamic ownership, the government will only have sales. The Workers' Party wants state ownership to be an important industrial policy instrument, the government considers increased privatisation to be the most important. The Labour Party proposes a recruitment strategy to bring more women and greater diversity into top management of companies, as Gunnar Gundersen said, but the government is opposed. With this, I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. In this connection, I would also like to inform you that we are drawing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e882	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e887	The message we are now discussing gives us some powers. Some authorities have been in the past and some have been new. During the previous ageing period, we considered the power to sell the Cermaq group, which contained a feed and research part called the EOS. The last Minister of Industry, Trond Giske, split this sale and sold the EMU to two US investment funds. Then there's a lot left, called Cermaq. The authority of Stoltenberg II is also back, and present Minister of Industry Monica Mæland sells Cermaq to a Japanese industrial group. In the comments, the Committee points out that ‘the State’s holding has been disposed of and the authorisation issued under Stoltenberg II has been used’, while the Workers’ Party must add that ‘the government has sold Cermaq ASA out of the country’. My question to the representative Botten is: what do you put in the comment ‘sold Cermaq out of the country’? What's the idea behind such a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e894	That's important questions Hill-Jensen addresses. It's interesting this dynamic ownership thing. We've always said that if there's good industrial reasons to sell down, we're on it, and if it's time to buy up, we'll do it. In the case of Cermaq, there was actually an authority there to both buy up and sell down, and there was a majority on the Stortinget – agreement in Stortinget – to do so. When the representative asks what we mean by selling ‘out of the country’, it’s not that businesses should not be in the country – we don’t know – but the assumptions are there. What was said in the press release was that this is going to be in the country, but that it is foreign owners who have taken over the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e903	The representative Botten and the undersigned have been representatives of this Chamber for some years. Under the red-green government it was a comprehensive sale with the State Council Gishe as Minister of Industry. Then we heard the argument that sales of state ownership were necessary and appropriate. Then it was pragmatic, now it's becoming more and more ideology. I have such a simple question for the representative Bottom: what is the difference between blue-blue sales and red-green sales of state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e908	For us, it's important that we have strong state ownership. We believe that this is important for the long-term and industrial development of our country. We're concerned that the pragmatism reflects whether there's a good argument for the types of sales you're making, maybe buying, rather than ideology, which is just a general justification anyway. In this announcement, there are eight companies to sell, plus two companies to sell. That's the same reason all the way: it's the spread of power and privatisation that's on the agenda – that's the argument. I think it's much more important if you're going to do such a kind of grip, which sometimes makes sense, that at least you have a thorough argument for the individual company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e913	The word ‘selling Norway’ has been used to describe the sale of state forest. Now it turns out that approx. 80 pst. of the forest properties that Stateskog has sold are to local buyers and municipalities. Does the Workers' Party believe that selling forests to municipalities and local farmers is «to sell Norway»? Or is it strengthening local business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e918	I am very happy to have the question of what has happened now with the arrondance sale that the red-green government started. And it's quite right that the representative Gundersen brought up here instead of who it is who bought up these properties. But what we're going into now with the investigation that the government wanted is a more large-scale sale. When the arrogance of the ligaments is finished, you have to sell large properties, because this wasn't enough for this government, you have to privatize more. In addition, the concession law is removed, and that context contributes to the fact that it is much more topical that foreign buyers come and buy the forest. So the buy-in image will turn around with such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e923	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e926	This is a matter where sadly feelings have overshadowed facts, and where many false feelings of stomach have come from a reconstructed hostile image of government and propaganda-like campaigns by some. The debate in public space, after this ownership message was presented, has been very much based on emotions, especially in social media, and some companies have received more attention than others. There hasn't been so much debate at a general level: why should the state own individual companies, and which companies, and why is the very present level the best? And to the sharpest critics among political parties and representatives: why is it not proposed to buy in mass from private companies whose state is such a good owner? Why is it safe? The state is not always the best and most competent owner. And sometimes we see – a little too often, perhaps – unfortunate political interference in even listed companies. We may all remember the somewhat special matter of Minister of Business and Trade Trond Giske and his involvement in Telenor's sales process of TV 2, with reports from Lorry and various SMS exchanges between the then state council and the director of Telenor, Harald Norvik, who reacted with frustration and anger and said to the media: “What I’m responding to is that I’m being exposed to clear messages and very strong views that the Telenor board will take a different decision from what the board intends to decide.” We may also remember an SMS exchange between the DnB manager and then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. Maybe a little unlucky? And some of us may remember the remarkable fact that the first alternate member of the board of a listed company, the Kongsberg Group – who was also the LO leader – was fully remunerated. As far as I can remember, this was not adopted at the General Assembly of the Kongsberg Group, nor was it on the agenda. And how was the electoral process at the forefront? According to the media, the name of the chairperson of the LO came on the table at the same time as the election committee’s mandatory deadline expired – recorded by Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Trond Giske’s husband in the committee and then proposed as an ordinary member of the board. «I have never experienced that an alternate receives full fees,» said the then head of the election committee, Sverre Valvik, to the media. Looking back at the National Audit Office's control of the administration of state companies, it's confirmed that we have some challenges. Auditors’ controls on ownership show that several ministries have challenges with regard to the work of the board of directors, and in particular with regard to time limits and non-discrimination of shareholders. Among the departments of ownership under control, the documentation of the ownership dialogue differs considerably. It has been mentioned several times by the National Audit Office that, for a majority of the jointly owned companies, no convening of a general meeting was received until the general meeting took place. When dealing with the cases, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee stated that this was critical. A review of the convocations to the ordinary general meeting in 2013 shows that the Riksaudition had received a copy of the convocation for 16 of the 31 shared-liability companies before the general meeting took place. So this means that you only got half of the call. The flight has also been debated. I register that this transport company must be owned by the state because the company is doing so very well! A short answer is that you will of course get a lot more for the company if you sell it than if you sell it, for example. sells a company that doesn't go as well as SAS, which is hard to get rid of. But the flight train goes with profit, and it's very high customer satisfaction. But I don't know if you've thought a little bit about why it's like that -- whether it's maybe because it's a state-owned company and you might not think so innovatively about how to get higher earnings? I am myself from the Drammen, and am very pleased that you got the Flytrain to the Drammen. But when on an ice cold morning I'm going to take the Fly train and fly a little later, I see outside that it's packed with people, commuters, going to Oslo. They're getting a stand on the NSB train while I'm sitting alone in my cabin. Perhaps a private owner had thought a little differently, that one should open up so that commuters could take the Fly train to Oslo? But when it's a state company, maybe it's not that important? I'll finish there. I see that my time is up, but I expect that there will be several exchanges along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e952	The representative Rytman was so much involved in the government's ownership message, but he was probably most busy with SMS messages and post-games, and he forgot to say that this government has done like all other governments by putting its people into government advice and selection. I want to stick to the ownership message, and the Labour Party is very surprised that the government is asking for permission to sell in e.g.. The Kongsberg Group and let in new owners without one having evaluated the strategic aspects of a company that represents important defence technology. It appeared during the hearing that it would be very unfortunate if, for example: an allier is given control over major ownership posts, and it was also found that other countries have legislation regulating ownership constellations in companies with strategic interest in the defence industry. What is the reason behind the representative Rytman that the government will not agree to such a regulation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e959	There were two questions – or at least one claim and one question. First of all, it is at least unknown to me that this government has appointed its own people, and that those who sit on board and care are not qualified, if that is what the representative suggested. So to the Kongsberg Group: it has been a big debate in the media, and not least in our own party, the Progress Party. We take with us our own party teams and states, and not least we have had a comprehensive treatment in our own big business group, where one of our own actually also called for us to have legislation before a sale or partnership with regard to the Kongsberg Group, of course. And of course, the most important thing is what will be the best for the Kongsberg Group in terms of getting a strategic partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e966	It was an article that was a bit difficult to get quite wise. It's true that it's been about emotions, and you've been using social media. It should be known to a representative of the Progress Party that emotions and social media, appeals for important things and values are allowed in public vocabulary. I have registered that the Progress Party has used it earlier. In the notes, the government gets criticism from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre for having sub-communicated the forces by state ownership in the wake of the presentation of this message. Does the representative see that one has been too bad to promise that there are actually some advantages of state ownership, and are emotions allowed in public vocabulary?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e973	Yes, of course, emotions are allowed in public space and are often very good. Feelings are important, but not if they are based on misinformation, constructed enemy images or factual errors, which lead to rewriting, and then there will be a debate on wrong premise. Then it's going to be wrong. Whether there are any advantages to state ownership: yes, sometimes it is. From the media and social media one gets the impression that this government, or the majority of the population, is going to sell everything, scratches and bits, of listed companies where the state has a holding, or principal. But it's still way over 30 pst. on Oslo Stock Exchange, which is going to be state owned, and still some prominent companies. In answer to the question, of course, there are cases where it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e980	Sensitivity is one thing, but coherent reasoning may be the most important thing when you're going to do this in the hall. In the summary in the setting, there is something very serious. It says that the state does not have enough industrial competence to own as much as one does. It's a very serious message to get from the government, that one of mine has a department that doesn't have enough industrial competence. It sounds like a pretty fundamental competence problem. The answer to the blue-blue then is to sell, not build competence. Then the natural question at least becomes a rational question: with what industrial competence does a company have to sell out of these companies, when one has said that one does not have industrial competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e987	I find it hard to understand that the notification has said that there is poor competence, but in companies that are listed and operate in an international market, I think in many cases there is a potential partner out there, perhaps also hopefully in Norway, in private companies, who have better skills than – whether they are bureaucrats or government employees. Both research and history show that innovative solutions are usually provided in private companies, not state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e992	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e995	The treatment of this message has gone right into the heart of one of the fundamental values of the Christian People’s Party – namely the administrative responsibility. It's about managing today's values for the benefit of future generations, both the material and the non-material. The comments made by the government parties in the setting are essentially a strong defence of private ownership. There are good reasons to stimulate private ownership: Private owners can often have more direct ownership. Private owners will normally have stronger motivation to manage their own investments. Private ownership can improve ownership, increase profitability and increase risk. This can also promote cost reduction and innovation. Several studies show that privatisation can also lead to lower costs and better quality of products. But it's not that private ownership is the solution to everything. I believe that the forces of state ownership have been sub-communicated by the government and government parties, in particular in the public change of words in the wake of the presentation of this message. State ownership can give increased attention to societal responsibility. The safeguarding of climate and the environment, human rights, employee rights and anti-corruption shall be the main line of state companies. This sets the standard also for other, fully private, companies. There are a number of advantages of further state ownership. A State ownership may: limit an abnormally high growth in management wages strengthen inclusion, equality and diversity stabilise the capital market correct market failure maintain head office in Norway better the care of environment and climate ensure world-leading societal responsibility develop necessary knowledge and competence care critical infrastructure and develop and protect technology or information of national interest This is not a completely insignificant thing. And it shows the importance of having strong and active state ownership, with good governance principles, as it is now added to. For the Christian People's Party, ensuring infrastructure, natural resources, technology and information related to national security has been particularly important. We're satisfied that we're authorized to sell in Telenor. There are good clarifications in the comments on how critical infrastructure is ensured in order to ensure social security. Sub-privatisation will provide good strategic opportunities for Telenor and give them more legs to stand on. In the case of the Fly train, there is an important part of the collective offer in the East. The government has announced a railway reform. In it, the Flytrain has an important position. Therefore, we believe it would be unwise to consider a sale of the Flytrain before the reform is completed. As far as the Kongsberg Group is concerned, it is important to be able to regulate who owns and controls the company if it becomes a sale that the government wants. That's why the Christian People's Party is pleased that there's now a code to give us control over who controls and owns the Kongsberg Group, before we even decide whether it's going to be a sale. In the case of State Forest, there is no indication here of the government's goal of selling as much as it was purchased in the previous period. All in all, in this setting, we have put in place good arrows for the management of next generation values. Both material and non-material values are well preserved. The treatment of this matter in the Biggest has found a better balance point, as the Christian People's Party sees it. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1072	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1077	All first I want to give a tribute to the Christian People's Party for helping to slow down and moderate part of what was in the government's notice. The representative Heimdal was within social responsibility, and by having a strong state ownership, the Stortinget and the government can help the companies in which we own, go ahead and show the way in the development of society. An area in which state-owned companies can take the lead is the job with a better gender balance in senior management positions. A majority of the Committee has also expressed the wish that State-owned companies should have a recruitment strategy to increase the number of women, with objectives of at least 40 pst. of both sexes in management. However, the Labour Party and the Centre are alone in promoting such a proposal today. Then it is close to wondering whether the Christian People's Party is sure that the government will get ahead of this work even if such a proposal would be defeated today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1084	All first I'd like to say thank you for the honor. As I concluded my post with, I believe that the treatment of the ownership message in Stortinget this winter has led to a better balance point for what the state should own, and how the state should own it. The representative, Julius, addresses an important issue: 40 pst. gender balance and a recruitment strategy. I'm sure a minority government will follow up the majority in the staging room. I know that this government will do that, and so the most important thing is that we get a better recruitment of both sexes in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1092	I also want to start by giving praise to the Christian People's Party for the job they have done. In many ways, this is at least a little bit in the right direction. I heard the representative Gundersen earlier stress very carefully that this is just a delay in the sale. In the case of the Fly train, it is a company with commercial objectives: a Category 1 company. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party have a proposal to move it to Category 3. The suspension of the sale is justified in the light of the railway reform. It must mean that one believes that the Flytrain has sectoral policy objectives in itself, since one links ownership to the reform. What is the background to the fact that the Christian People's Party does not support our proposal to move the Fly train to Category 3 and what does one think is the difference between the Fly train and the NSB in terms of ownership treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1099	Thank you very much for the praise of the chairman of the committee. I believe that Norway as a whole should be aware of this, when a head of the nutrition committee believes that we have moved this communication in the right direction through this discussion. This is how both the representative Pollestad and I have been talking about, the government is warning a railway reform. For the Christian People's Party, the Flytog has an important position in the collective offer in the East. That is why we believe it would be unwise to sell the Fly train before this reform is implemented. For us, this is precisely an important point: the reform is not just to be presented, it is not just to be adopted, it is to be implemented. This is how important we are looking at the Fly train in this major railway operation. That's why we've got a majority, with the government, for this – something the Center Party will also be supporting. There is the matter today, and that is what we are now going to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1106	My experience is that the Christian People's Party is a party that has taken over the fact that we are living in a time of great man-made climate change, with which we, as a society, have a duty to do something. It must also affect ownership, how we manage it, and how the same forces were pulling in the same direction. We know that the flight from Heathrow and from Arlanda, which are commercially driven, has a higher price than when they were owned by the public. Commercially determined price is higher than today's Flytrain delivers. Probably, if you looked at Heathrow and Arlanda, the price would have gone over NOK 200, from today NOK 170. Will the Christian People's Party be able to participate in a solution that increases the price of the Flytrain in Norway, thus reducing the number of collective travellers to Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1115	What we are discussing today is whether the state should continue to own the Flytrain. It's a majority in this Chamber, that's what's important, and that's what this debate is about now. So the representative of the Knag County not only knows that the Christian People's Party has taken over the fact that the climate challenges are man-made: we mean it, and we stand for a policy that facilitates more collective action. We've done that in the last two budgets, where we've pulled the government in a greener direction, just to strengthen the trains. As for the price of a possible future ticketing system: I don't think neither Knag Fylkesnes nor I will look into it and make us judges. The most important thing now is that we increase the collective effort, that several of us take the train every day, and that we put the car at home. The representatives Knag Fylkesnes and Hemdal then have a responsibility to facilitate a good train service. We do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1124	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1127	There has been an exciting and good process in the Stortinget about ownership, which has aroused involvement in the whole of Norwegian society, and in which very many have participated. It's very good, and it shows how wise it was by the committee to postpone the treatment, based on the course it was originally set up by the government. I would say that one of the highlights of this discussion was when the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire said that the debate on Norwegian or unorthodox was ‘bad’. It gave further impetus to a very important debate that has changed the policy. Because when this case was presented in June 2014, we heard a government that argued why it was important to sell, how important it was to get private owners in, and how this should do things better. Now the discussion has gone, arguments have largely been picked from each other, and now a representative of the government parties hears about how little one should sell, and that it really doesn't matter that much. In addition, concrete policies have been changed. It's a pleasure. For the Central Party, there is no contradiction between a good private ownership and the fact that the State is a large owner. That the state is a large owner is important to our country, and that is a tool that we can use to achieve some political goals. This probably has a broader approach to the Central Party than the government parties and the majority parties put up, because we believe that it is an independent goal to safeguard national ownership and use state ownership to achieve it. We believe that emergency reasons should be able to justify state ownership, as well as control of natural resources, control of important infrastructure and the preservation of the environment of competence in Norway, but also as a tool to ensure a high return on the country's capital. The Norwegian state is a large owner. We own huge values. The discussion has largely focused on whether we should only own abroad, or whether we should also dare to invest new things and own new things in Norway. What has perhaps been most interesting, and that shows how it is the ideology that drove the work on this message, is what happened around the Kongsberg Group. That the government has managed to deal with such a matter without in one word describing the consequence that a non-alternative could enter the majority victory side of the Kongsberg Group, is very special. There is no trace of it, and it would be a belief that the government wanted to make the Stortinget aware.Certainly, we had a hearing in the committee where this came up. That changed policy, and I think it will take a very long time before a regulation is put in place that ensures control of the technology and the secrets and the defence competence of the Kongsberg Group. It has been said that the government will sell Norway bit by bit. I believe that this is the basis for claiming it. I don't think it's empty slogans, I don't think it's sensory. We have the ownership message here, we have Statskog, where the representative Gunnar Gundersen makes it look like an advanced Christmas tree sale. But the reality of the mandate given is that it opens up a full privatisation of the country’s forest activities. We have a concession law that the government has sent to the hearing. It allows a limited liability company – Norwegian and foreign – to own land and forest in Norway. Then it does not benefit us that the Council of State says that she believes this will not be a problem – because they open it up. And in fisheries legislation, we have clear trends that one goes away from what has been a support bar in Norwegian policy. So there's a basis for saying that the government has a policy to sell Norway bit by bit — it's not a contentless slogan. Luckily, I don't think the Storting wants to be part of such a policy. For the Center Party, it has also been important in this process to think again. That's why we've said, should the state own 100 million telecommunications customers in Asia, or can we think about Telenor? That is why we want a new ownership instrument to be identified, because we want to use – in tidy forms, in line with share law – state ownership as a political objective. It has been leading the Centre Party in the work we have put into this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1147	I wonder if the representative can tell me if the Senter party has at any time regretted selling out. Sales have been down in the last 10–15–20 years. One of the biggest sales has perhaps been Telework, now Telenor. If you regret, for example, that you do. sold down there, or are there other companies where you regret and perhaps consider buying up again? My claim will be that in most cases it has actually been success stories. Could the representative of the Central Party provide any answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1152	That's the way it's often said that we have a pragmatic relationship with this. It's not like the Center Party is going back to the time when we had the Telework, but it's like the Center Party thinks we should have control of important infrastructure. It's come in the news today that we get two foreign owners to two of the networks we have in mobile phones. Yeah, maybe it could be worth preserving Telenor as a state-owned company. In the same way, I am satisfied with what we did with Statskog when we were in government. We bought Borregaard Forests, and then we decided to sell a considerable amount of forest to strengthen local ownership. I stand for the right to buy up in Statoil and ensure full control – 68 pst. ownership – in Statoil, as the previous government did. I don't think it was a good idea to sell Cermaq. The authority was there, but it was this government that is now sitting, that sold Cermaq.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1159	We've got a government that's busy with social responsibility. It is reflected in ten beautiful principles of state ownership management, to which also the Center Party joined. Nevertheless, the Centre believes that state ownership and means of action should be used in specific parts of the policy area. One takes the view that one in climate and environmental policy must use these state-owned companies. One does not mention child labour, corruption, social dumping and black work and other challenges in society. Isn't the board supposed to do such a strategy, based on current laws and regulations in society, and not the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1164	I believe that the Storting should draw up some broad lines, some expectations of social responsibility. And, as we write in the vote, «companies where the state is the owner shall be spearheads of social responsibility». So we've especially pointed to the climate of this. I also record that in an interview in the VG, after the state council of Malta had been rated zero by Zero for not meeting up and delivering anything for the green shift, the government's government's government's board points to the ownership message as an important tool in the climate work presented by the government. So it's absolutely relevant that the Storting should rule at the overall level. We are concerned that governance should take place through the general meeting in line with the share law. Then, like other owners, you have the opportunity to influence the management of the company, and there we want to go a little further than what we have done. But the task of the Storting shall be to adopt the overall objectives of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1172	I share the input of the representative Pollestad that there has been an exciting and good process in Stortinget, which has led to the position we are now debating. So the representative Pollestad says it's an independent goal for the Center Party to ensure state ownership. In this position we are now debating, it is well that the Central Party is asking for a mandate – to a very large extent – to purchase, perhaps up to 80 billion. kr. Then my question to the representative is: is it realistic that the state will ever have the opportunity to buy up on such a large scale?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1179	I like the question. Here, a little bit of a separation is needed. When we say that we want to buy up in Telenor Norden, which we have chosen to call it, to 68 pst., it's because we want to have control of the infrastructure, just like we have a corresponding holding in Statoil. When, for example, for DNB or for Hydro has submitted a request for 49 pst, we also write in the comments that we think it might be appropriate to put something above these thresholds in ownership law, because we want to give companies an opportunity to use shares as an instrument in strategic transactions and the development of companies. So it's not our goal to own 49 pst. by a bank or by Hydro, but we want to give that authority. So it's up to the government to assess whether a person wants to use that mandate in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1186	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1189	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for good cooperation, a cooperation that will give us a responsible and balanced ownership policy. There have been good processes with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, and in some areas we have found good solutions with other parts of the committee. In the left, we are pleased that we now have a responsible and balanced ownership policy. However, we lack a government ambition to make ownership policy even greener. For the Left, it has been important to establish that the 2 degree objective of the United Nations should underpin the exercise by the State of state ownership and ownership strategies of the companies in which the State is a significant owner. I am pleased that this also applies to the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, but records that the government and the Workers' Party have so far not wanted to participate in this. On the other important points, we have been given – very far on the way, at least – our attention. The left is satisfied that there will be no full or partial sale of the Flytrain until the government brings about the expected reform of the railway sector. Any sale must be seen in the context of this. We have always been concerned that there is an increase in railway investment that carries with it the most sustainable solution to future challenges in infrastructure and climate. It was the entrance to the left when we started the process with the ownership message last autumn, and it has also been the result we now have on the table. The Kongsberg Group and the development of competence and technology in the Kongsberg environment are of great importance to the whole country. It is therefore important that we have our tongues in our mouths to ensure that the important interests of the Kongsberg Group are safeguarded in a way that serves both local and national interests. For the Left, it is important that the Committee now asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with an investigation or a review of the regulations and instruments used by other, comparable, countries to protect companies of national and strategic interest, before any power can be granted to reduce the State’s ownership of the Kongsberg Group ASA. We're happy that there's now a majority for this. The left considers that it makes sense for a State sale in Telenor to be authorised to go down to 34 pst. In order for Telenor to attract more foreign capital to Norway in the future and for Telenor to evolve, the Left considers that reduced state ownership may be part of the solution. At the same time, critical infrastructure must be safeguarded if the State chooses to sell itself into Telenor. It's crucial for us that this is in place. In the case of State Forest, the Left has been working throughout the process to find a balanced and forward-looking solution. That is why the Left is pleased that, not least through good cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we have heard about our point of view. The left is concerned that we have and get private forest owners who can make the shop of the forest, while the general public – we who travel in forests and fields, and who want to fish or hunt – are not cut off from it at any sale. The left looks forward to the government returning a case to the Stortinget on the role of Statskog in the future after the investigation work on Statskog has been completed. The position of the left will be clear. The size must guarantee people the same right to travel in forests and land and have instruments that contribute to predictability and accessibility in terms of fishing and hunting rights. The left will continue to work actively on the Storting to consider climate change and national and international climate action at the same time as the governance of companies in which the country owns or has co-ownership. Therefore, the Left is concerned that Statoil ASA, as a leading energy company, is also engaged in renewable energy activities. In the left we therefore welcome the fact that Statoil is now developing further in this area. In the Left, we believe that state ownership is an instrument to be used in climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1211	As far as the representative of Farstad was concerned, state ownership is an instrument that can contribute to solving many challenges, and there is a broad consensus that Norwegian state ownership should contribute to the development of a competitive business, innovation and future jobs, and not least to the ownership of Innovation Norway and Siva, and not without relevance to this ownership message, it is that the government has initiated more processes related to both ownership and structure in Innovation Norway. In this context, it is of concern that the government, and the majority parties, in their comments on this Communication, are reflecting the role of Innovation Norway and Siva in contributing to economic development and innovation across the country. The question then is: wouldn't it have been natural in a communication on state ownership, and not least in relation to our innovation companies, just to establish, as the Stortinget did in the previous ownership announcement, that our ownership should contribute positively to the development of both small, medium and large enterprises across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1218	Thank you for the question. The left is particularly concerned with the work of Innovation Norway and Innovation Norway, especially in the districts. We have followed with interest the process now taking place in Innovation Norway, and are waiting under stress for what comes out of the current review of Innovation Norway. The left has clear perceptions of what we want with Innovation Norway, and it does not seem that this is the main point of the message we are now discussing, but we will come back to Innovation Norway in an appropriate way when the case is available here in Stortinget. But I can promise the representative Julius and everyone else that Innovation Norway is an actor that the Left is extremely concerned about should work well throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1223	I must praise the Left in the same way as the Christian People's Party, not because they have done a perfect job, but because they have pulled this in the right direction. I am also pleased that someone in some places has managed to form a majority, consisting of the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This applies, inter alia, to: in a note where one considers that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries must carry out a survey on how the country manages the climate-related risk associated with ownership. Then I record that the Left does not agree with the proposal of the Labour Party and the Central Party, and my question is: does the representative of Farstad have a clear expectation that the Council of State will follow up this majority remark, even though the Left is not in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1230	I expect majority comments to be followed up by the Council of State. After all, we have elements in the comment from the Committee on Climate and Environment that the Left is definitely in and where we may have been leading. In climate and environmental issues, I hope that the necessary steps will be taken to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1235	I notice in the setting that the Labour Party and the Center Party propose a recruitment strategy for women in state-owned companies, and the Left and Christian People's Party opposes it. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1240	It's right, as the representative Knag County observes here, that we assume that it's part of what the government is going to do in the further work on ownership, regardless of whether we're on the note or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1246	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1249	Everyone in this room is certain that the state should own, and everyone is also certain that the state should not own everything. We are all for a mixed economy, but there is also a stop to unity. The big difference is the mixing ratio. Norway, with large export revenues and surpluses, has been sentenced, especially since the early 1990s, to own something. Any reduction in state ownership within Norway leads to a corresponding increase in Norwegian state ownership abroad. It's like a couchboard. So when the government argues that the state owns too much, the government doesn't do anything about it. The question must therefore be much more fundamental: What should Norway own? For SV, the answer is simple: infrastructure, natural resources and the environment. Let's take the infrastructure example first: Norway would never have had the well-developed telecommunications and mobile network we have today, without the state having strong control of the Telecom and later Telenor. I have traveled by speedboat from Traina to Bodø with NetCom coverage, without being able to load Avisa Nordland's homepage before I came to the municipality of Gildeskal. It is a distance that corresponds to approx. the distance between Stavanger and Sogndal. Getting to the big cities, the coverage with NetCom, on the other hand, is fantastic, with 4G and stuff. This is how the market prioritises densely built strokes first – spread-built strokes very half-hearted. The SSB recently showed that the deployment of good networks and broadband has had a positive impact on economic growth and productivity. Good broadband deployment in geographical areas where economic or pig-grown areas are poor is found to have a smoothing effect compared to the area of well-established broadband infrastructure. Mobile broadband is an important alternative to fixed broadband. In such a perspective, it should be said that the state should not sell itself into such an important company as Telenor. We should buy up and use the company even more actively in scattered parts of the country, where the large values are far outside the big cities. Those who think that the state should sell down to Telenor, are in favour of poor net coverage in much of the country, which will lead to lower value creation and generally severe irritation. Why should a do this? Is it to buy axles in the gold mining company Goldcorp in Guatemala and Colombia? Flight: The worst thing about the right-hand win of the Fly train is not that the state loses a good source of income. The worst thing is that it will ruin the collective success of the Gardermo, because the prices will go up, which leads to the number of travelers going down. The Gardermoen is that European airport with the highest collective share. On the other side of 67 pst. travel collectively to and from the aerodrome – 47 pst. by train and 21 pst. by bus. The red-green government had ambitions to increase that part further, to 75 pst. So today's Flytoget AS is measured by both profitability and collective share. In Right & Co. its value is this important societal mission gone. The people would get higher prices, and the collective part would go down. Why? To buy property in London? The same reasoning applies to natural resources: State Forest and Cermaq are at stake. Norway has four particularly large natural resources: oil, hydropower, fish and forests. While it is unmistakable that the state should have a strong ownership of oil and water power, it is not the same argument for fish and forest. At the same time, fish and forests represent large, renewable natural resources that Norway has enormous opportunities to exploit industrially. All experience shows that the countries that are willing to create industry from their natural resources have the most productive economy. I am willing to bet a good bottle of whisky that foreign companies and investors who have well-developed value chains outside the country are going to bet industrially in Norway. By selling out of these companies, Norway’s right-hand side markets as a commodity supplier. Why? To own a little bit of Google? The biggest challenge facing society now is the man-made climate change. I record that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have realised that one should also use state ownership as an instrument in climate and environmental policy. I don't understand why the Workers' Party is not involved in that comment. I also record that the Central Party and the Labour Party are making proposals for gender bias, and I am surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1275	The majority of the Economic and Social Committee will uphold the main principles of the state's attitude to the remuneration of directors of companies in which the State owns. The establishment of remuneration for senior executives shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors and remuneration of directors shall be competitive but not pay. Leader pay is a balance between being competitive and finding a level at which the right skills and experience can be recruited to companies. The SV’s proposals will go a long way in the responsibility of the boards, and the question of SV is whether they will deviate from the government governance principles of ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1282	The rents in state companies also have a doctor in the front in relation to the private. It has been a pay gap – now I was saying something that is not particularly parliamentary – that does not look like anything. The state has a very special moral responsibility to make sure that leadership wages are at a level that morally corresponds to what is the people's perception of what is right. It's so exciting to be a tenant in such exciting companies as Telenor, Statoil, Flytrain, etc. I don't believe that what matters is two to three million. kr more or less. It's not what determines whether the competence is affected or not. Having a state ownership commits in far greater areas than just following what goes on in the market. It's not like we can compete with Google when it comes to pay, but we can compete when it comes to interesting jobs for people who want to take decent jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1289	Does this mean that SV will deviate from the governance principles of ownership policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1294	We have another kind of approach to the ownership message, which the representative may have brought with it. And if the representative also reads our program, she'll see that we have a completely different relationship with ownership. We mean that the state of Norway had too little. Imagine the role we could have had if we had really invested in the Kongsberg Group, bet on Telenor, used it to make Norway world leader in space and mobile technology – what is really the big potential in the future. Think, if we had used Cermaq and Statskog as big industrial actors to really develop the bioeconomy in Norway. It is washed away in a cloud of industry neutrality and ‘hands off’ from government control. That doesn't make any sense, we strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1299	The representative, Knag County, said that wage developments were not similar. I remember who has been in government for eight years. It's pretty important to bring it with you. So it was under SV's control. But I think we need to be clear about this. Another type of regulation of state ownership, says SV. Does this mean that SV departs from the ten governance principles that the state governs? It's pretty important to clarify. Knag Fylkesnes may interfere with the practical situation: a member of the board is personally responsible for managing the company in the best possible way. Should the government then instruct the board members not to hire those they think is best, and deal with what is SV's proposal, that no one should earn more than the prime minister? This is very important, it goes on the very principle basis of state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1306	There are several things here that I'm responding to. The only thing is that I don't think I've experienced a single post from the representative, Gundersen, where eight years in government haven't been mentioned. Now we've come one and a half years – maybe even a little bit more – into a blue-blue regime, so I imagine that the representative Gundersen will soon start talking about something else – starting to look ahead. When it comes to principle -- that's the salary we talk about, that's the governance that the board has, that's what we want to influence. The rest – how the other goes – we get back to. But that's this one thing we mean. There are people who think an infinite amount more than the Prime Minister, who there is probably a consensus here in the Chamber must have the most interesting job in this country. If the representative thinks that we have trouble getting competent people to that kind of settings because they don't think much more, then I wonder what the representative is thinking about. But I think that if the state of Norway sees clear limits on how much money can be spent, and it's oriented towards the pay in government, we're not going to lose competence on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1316	Numerous, well-developed and competent owner environments are a prerequisite for society's competitiveness and value creation. Good ownership – private and public – creates safe jobs and finances our important welfare systems. The vast majority of companies in Norway are privately owned, and private ownership is the general rule in Norwegian business. Some basic conditions make private ownership well suited to contribute to value creation and to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. Private ownership of Norwegian enterprises is important, and that is good. We know that private initiative and private investment are driving the development of the economy. And that's why we believe that reducing state ownership will lead to increased diversity by allocating influence in business to several actors. At the same time, there are good reasons why the State should be the whole or the partner of a selection of companies. The rationale varies from company to company and is based on long-term and stable state ownership and contributes to social considerations. In the ownership message, we justify the state ownership. We explain why and what the state should own, how much the state should own, and how we should manage ownership. The government’s ownership message further develops state ownership policy. We reinforce the expectations of the state in the area of social responsibility in general, and expectations of climate and environment and work against corruption and for transparency in particular. At the same time, we take care of the pillars of ownership policy, which have been firmly established for many years: It is about the exercise of state ownership professionally and predictablely. It's about a clear division of roles between the state as the owner and the governments. It is about the fact that the State is not directly represented in the boards and takes part in the business decisions. It is about ownership decisions and decisions to be taken at the general meeting. And it's about companies with state ownership having to be able to compete under the same conditions as other companies. It is gratifying that a Joint Nutrition Committee is behind these basic frameworks. It gives predictability and legitimacy to state ownership. Then I register that some members have made proposals that can challenge these frameworks, and that can go at the expense of the established division of responsibilities we have, between the board and the owner. The central task of the state towards business is to facilitate all value creation, public and private, through good framework conditions. When the state has the role of both owner and regulator, it gives the state great power — and it requires that one be very clear in the exercise of its different roles. The state should therefore not own companies, unless there are very good reasons. There are few countries in the world that have a higher state ownership than Norway. The government wants to spread power and increase ownership. With this in mind, the government wants to reduce its direct ownership over time. We believe that the country should not have as a long-term objective to own in companies where the objective of ownership is only to maximise the value of its investment. Therefore, we ask for authorisation to reduce the country's ownership of category 1 companies. We also want flexibility to be able to reduce state ownership down to 34 pst. in two of the companies in category 2. I am very pleased that the majority of the Business Committee supports this approach, and that they have joined almost every authority the government has requested. For two of the companies, the Storting wishes to defer the assessment of powers until important clarifications have been made. I understand that, and there is something the government would in any case have clarified before any reductions in the country's ownership had been carried out. That work is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1373	In the class struggle on 1 February 2014, Minister of Industry Monica Mæland said that everything can in principle be sold. In the news it was stated that the government asked for permission to sell 34 pst. by the Kongsberg Group, but the setting states that that authority is being suspended because information has been provided through the consultation that makes it important to take a breath on the ground and find out how to deal with this. In the Labour Party we have a proposal, proposal No. 9: ‘The government asks the government to assess the regulations and laws of other countries in order to ensure control of the ownership of companies of particular importance and to promote this in the case of the Stortinget.’ Why does the government not agree with that remark if you have turned around in this case and started to find out that feelings may not be the most important thing, as was shown in February, but that the facts that have emerged along the way are more important?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1383	I dare to tip, without perhaps being allowed in Stortinget, that the quotation has been taken out of its context. I have never meant and the government has never meant that everything should be sold, that's why we have submitted a ownership message, which defines what we should own. So it is that an authority to make an assessment is an authority to clarify all aspects of a case. This is a well-known way of working. That's why we used from the moment we got the power to sell Entra, actually three and a half years to make an assessment of how it should be done. We spent a year evaluating Mesta before we concluded that we were not going to sell. Now it is that security and preparedness are something the government has on its top list of priority issues. It's not like that -- it wasn't like that under the red-green, it's not like that now -- that we're practicing this kind of policy through our ownership. We do that through our exercise of authority, that is, other laws and regulations. However, all of this would have been considered – and assessed – in the context of the proposal that now has a majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1392	The spread of power and the failure of ownership at the hall probably means that a lot of new, private actors are released. It's a little uncertain after listening to the line change here instead, if the government thinks that Telenor needs new industrial partners, but why one goes away from a long-term and patient owner like the state is, is incomprehensible to most people, and therefore many reactions. What industrial advantages will Telenor bring in many new small shareholders, possibly foreign funds, instead of the state? That's question No. 1st@item: inlistbox Question no. 2 is: How does the government ensure that the new owners are long-term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1397	It is a bit funny that this question comes up, as the head of the Workers' Party in today's business on 25 January argued that industrial owners could be present in the Telenor and the Kongsberg Group, even though the Workers' Party is not going in today to grant an authorisation. So I guess that's something the Workers' Party has also assessed can be appropriate. What we've explained is that the state should be a long-term owner of Telenor. We have to own 34 pst, because that's what we need to maintain the head office function and the important technology environment. We have explained this in this ownership message. It is about Telenor being able, in a given situation, to reduce state ownership in order to put other owners in place, which may be important for Telenor in a market that is changing quite considerably. Which situations should arise, I shouldn't wonder, but this is an opportunity we can see coming, and where there could be a current problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1402	It is worrying that it is the individual company that has to come to Stortinget and tell us that government policy has major security policy challenges, as happened with the Kongsberg Group. In the Question Time on 12 November, I challenged the Prime Minister on this. She saw no problem selling the Kongsberg Group out with the legislation that was. Fortunately, the government has also turned around. My question is, Has anyone started working on this code as a wish? And given that this will affect the rights of today's private shareholders in the Kongsberg Group, very complicated things both against the Constitution and EEA law, does the Council believe that such legislation could be in place before the 2017 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1409	Firstly, I must disappoint the representative: the government has not turned around. We stand firm that for the Kongsberg Group it is important with state ownership, but that 34 pst. is sufficient. Secondly, it has not been under the previous government or this that we are exercising preparedness and security policies through our ownership exercise. We do that through government law, and that's what we've told Stortinget that we're going to clarify. Thirdly, this should be a known practice. A mandate means the power to do a job and evaluate all aspects of a case, just as we would have to assess the proposal of the Centre Party to purchase it from the DNB. It challenges existing legislation, but this is something that will be clarified in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1418	I am a bit stunned when you stand so stubbornly firm that a sale to 34 pst. is right now, before you have a code in place. In that case, it will mean that a non-allier – there may be many people who do not want to own the Kongsberg Group – can buy up in the company. This is not mentioned in a single word in the ownership message. Then my question is: is the Council of State happy with the responsibility taken by the Stortinget, or would she want that authority to be granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1423	I just have to clarify: what we stand by is that we wanted to get a mandate, an authority to do a job of investigating all the aspects of a matter, as we've done with Mesta, where we spent one year, Entra, where we spent three quarters of a year. This work is not carried out in advance by a mandate, but afterwards. This is a familiar way of working, and that's what I'm insisting that the government is doing, and that work is already in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1428	As I was in the main post, the Left lacks an ambition from the government to make ownership policy greener. For the Left, it has been important to establish that the 2-degree objective is the basis for the State's exercise of state ownership and the strategies of companies in which the State is a significant owner. My question to the Minister of Industry is: How will the Minister of Industry work to achieve the 2-degree target through ownership policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1436	In the climate and environment sphere, this government has strengthened its expectations of the companies compared with the previous ownership announcement. It's precisely because we see that also through our ownership we have to follow up the companies, so that we can achieve the goals and the needs we have for the green shift. Then the government has been clear that we stand firm in the distribution of responsibilities for this work. The work must be done by the companies that are very different, by the boards of the companies that have to adopt a strategy, both in this area and in the field of equality. That is why we have referred to the governments that have to do this work, and then, in our own dialogue, we will follow up this work and, of course, relate to the decisions that Stortinget makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1443	In the summary of this message, there's something I've had in the past, and I'm very surprised that the industrial competence of the state, almost determined in the minister's own department, is too bad. There is one of several arguments for selling down, but it is presented as an important argument for selling down to these companies and becoming a more passive owner, with passive multiples and halls. Then the open question becomes: why has a non-constructed competence ensured better competence on the one hand? And of course, with what competence has one of these companies assessed into Category 1 when one does not have that competence in their own ranks?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1448	I do not recognize myself in the description ‘too bad’. I don't think we used that expression. But it is not inconceivable that private owners who have a completely different activity in the market and in the boards have a different competence. They're on the wheel. They know the markets. They're taking part in the decisions. The state doesn't. We haven't actually done that since Kings Bay, and we've developed principles for how the state behaves. We're not on the wheel. We don't take part in the decisions; that's what the governments do. But we point out board members who have competence, and that's what we're good at, and we're always going to improve it. Then that's not the reason why the state should own or not. I've explained the reasons for this a lot of times now. It's about spreading power. It's about diversity. It's about having a very large state ownership in Norway, and I think it's right to get more owners into the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1455	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1458	State forest SF owns about one fifth of the land area in Norway, but only a smaller part of it is forested area. If we subtract from the areas that are general government and areas that are protected, or in protective processes, this represents approximately. 2.4 million. Decer productive forest area. This is less than 1 pst. of the total area of Norway. Furthermore, no decision has been taken as to what the government is to present to the Stortingen in this case. So this is not about the sale of Norway! The government has not asked Stortingen to sell wood in the ownership notice either. The powers we now use for the sale of state forest properties were proposed and adopted under the red-green government. Public access to hunting and fishing is also highlighted in the investigations currently being carried out. After the entity bought 1,1 million. dekar forest of Orkla ASA in 2010, Statskog has both streamlined the operation and launched a sale of scattered forest properties. This will involve the sale of approx. 600 000 cover forests. It is Statskog SF who itself, on behalf of the red-green government, has assessed the properties that are involved in the sale in order to improve the arrears of their properties and thus achieve more rational operation. In addition, roundabout sales are important to strengthen Norwegian private and local ownership of Norwegian resources and to improve resource use of forest properties in the country. So far, Statskog has sold 148 properties. 69 pst. of which have been sold to local buyers in the same municipality, 13 pst. purchased from the Environment Directorate for use in protective processes, 10 pst. purchased from municipalities, and 8 pst. was purchased by others. This shows that arrondissement sales have so far strengthened local ownership. That the Workers' Party now believes that the arronding sale should be considered complete, after half of what was planned to be sold during the previous government remains, I think it seems strange. In my business meeting with the company, I asked Statskog to find out different models for privatisation. State forest shall submit its investigation on 1 March. I think it is necessary to carry out an in-depth investigation into which models for the privatisation and organisation of the forest business can, overall, make better use of the sum of state and private forests. According to the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes, there is a sustainable basis for increasing the harvesting of timber from Norwegian forests to at least 15 million. m3 annually. This corresponds to an increase of 35 pst. compared to the period 2008 to 2012. The report from Forest22 indicates that forest and wood industries may have a potential for economic turnover of at least 180 billion. kr per year, a quadruple from the level in 2012. It must invest in order to maintain the forest sector and, preferably, to strengthen its competitiveness. Could there be other ways of organising the state forest ownership that can trigger investment and greater value creation in the forest sector in Norway? I find it difficult to see that it is wrong to look at opportunities to strengthen the forest sector in Norway. State forest investigations shall also identify and illustrate the extent to which public access to hunting and conditions for hunting, fishing, outdoor activities and other user interests may be affected by the privatisation of forest activities and the way in which access can be ensured. I want to spend some time evaluating the investigation when it is available and deciding on the measures in question. Major changes to the activities and framework conditions of State Forest SF will be submitted appropriately to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1483	I noticed in the line change between representatives Geir Pollestad and Gunnar Gundersen that Gundersen did not answer the question of whether the government would sell out the forest in Statskog. As the Stortinget last processed Document 8:119 for 2010–2011, about Statskog, the Right Party and the Advance Party wrote in the comment in the vote as follows: ‘These members refer to the fact that it is not a State task to own forests: [[...]] Is the Council of State behind what the Progress Party and the Right have said that it is not a state task to own a forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1493	Unlike the previous time when a forest was sold, when no investigation was made or the Stortinget was presented, the government wanted to do a thorough job by both investigating how a person could do this, and then coming to Stortinget to ask for an authorisation in line with what we had to decide for. We believe it is important to get more out of Norwegian forests – that we are able to exploit the potential that exists in the forest – and it is amazing that the Workers' Party, which obviously has to focus on forest policy, is looking away from the fact that, to say all the prominent people in the forest industry, sees the need for us to do something to make good use of the forest in a better way than today. So far, there has not been an alternative proposal from the Labour Party on how this can be done. I look forward to one coming up with proposals and not just criticism of what the government has now started, which is an investigation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1500	The rhetoric here has been that what the government believes in its presentation regarding the state forest is the same as what the red-green ones did. I would like to remind you that the red-greens in their notes at the Innst. 153 S for 2010–2011 wrote that ‘the majority are satisfied that it has been added to a comprehensive arrondissement of scattered forest parcels’. Now the government says that their goal is to sell 1.1 million deke of state forest. Does the Council of State think that this is nothing more than selling scattered forest land?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1505	So far, this government has not proposed anything for the Storting, we have just pointed out that we have launched an investigation that Statskog is now in the process of being conducted. We look at what was said in connection with the sale that the red-green government initiated, then Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Peder Breck said that in addition to improving the efficiency of forestry in Statskog, the sale can ‘strengthen the nutrient base of private forest owners, municipalities and general public’. What we're saying in our message is that the government will strengthen private forestry. In other words, it is in line with what was the purpose of the previous government – to strengthen private forestry. Then we're going to come back with a proposal on how it can be done concretely, when we have an investigation to deal with. Then we're going to start discussing what's the reality of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1510	Thank you for coming to this debate, I think that was a good idea. Everybody's behind the arrondissement sale of State Forest. The question is, what are we going to do with the last 500,000 dean? I want to challenge the Council of State: who believes the Council of State will buy the last 500,000 dean when the arrondissement sale of 600,000 dean to local forest farmers and farmers is avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1518	What we know is that there's a lot of interest in forest in Norway. We have an incredible number of small forest owners, and a good part of them could imagine owning more than they do today. It's a little too early to say so much about how to do this, precisely because we've started an investigation on how to organize it. I will wait to make some conclusions before the investigation is available, and I will go into it thoroughly. I think there might be a lot of exciting models there that there's every reason to look at if you want to strengthen forestry in Norway. I perceive that the Christian People's Party too wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1523	I am pleased that the Council of State is quoting former Minister of Agriculture Breck, and in that quotation is given with regard to private owners of land, which is the important thing about this. Unfortunately, in the mission given by the Council of State to State Forest, there is consideration for the leading state. It says that one should focus on maximising the values of the country in this process. There is little about the consideration of private landowners. Can the Council of State say something about the background because one has so clearly pointed out that the purpose of this investigation is to maximise the values of the state, and why one has so little pointed out that State Forest should come up with models that serve the private, local ownership, which is important when a first sells the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1530	I think we say quite clearly in the ownership message that the purpose is to strengthen private forestry. But then, of course, I also believe that we have a responsibility to take care of our Community values. It's the way that the values administered by Statskog belong to us all, and if we ever choose to sell parts of it, it's clear that we need to get as much value out of it as possible. I would assume that the arrondance sale that the previous government started was also about Statskog getting paid for these properties as well as possible. In addition, a professional company should be aware of the fact that one should operate in a professional way, and that one wants to get as much value out of it as possible. It must apply to private companies, and it must also apply to State companies as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1537	I thank you for the answer, but I'm a little bit surprised. If Statskog makes the assessment that if a seller buys a large property, he gets a certain amount of money for it, while if one splits the same property into three, and three local landowners get it bought, one might get a sum of 10 pst. less for the total property. Does the Council not agree that when carrying out this arrondissement sale, one should also have an eye for whom a wish as a buyer – and the more important it becomes when one comes further into the process of arrondissement sale, that is, closer to the top of the mandate that is there – or is it bearing in mind that it is maximisation of the values of the state that is at the root, anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1542	I think it's quite obvious that it's important that we get the values that we're sitting on, in the best possible way. And then I look forward to getting this investigation to point out how any further sales – privatisation, reorganization, it has a quite wide mandate – can be made. What's the goal, is we're going to get more out of the woods. We have huge resources out there that we can't make good use of today. I believe that both the representative Pollestad and I agree. When this investigation is available, and we draw our conclusions, I look forward very much to discussing this matter further, because I believe that most of the Stortinges agree that the goal is to improve the management of Norwegian forest resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1547	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1550	The labor party wants to build the country, we don't want to sell the country. When we say no to the hall of Norway, it's not primarily about percentages of Oslo Stock Exchange. The brother of the company being sold is not on the stock exchange. At least as seriously, the government will also privatize and sell common eternal resources. They have launched a privatisation process in Statskog that is hampering access to hunting, fishing and outdoors for people, and there is uncertainty about fishing quotas. These values are going to be important for our future country, and they will be able to become more valuable at a time when natural resources are scarcer. This looks at foreign investors, who are eager to buy up. For us in the Workers' Party, it is crucial that we continue to own important natural resources together, and that we use state ownership to ensure increased value creation, industrial development and secure jobs. The problem with the government is that a non-powerful answer to why it's right to sell. What problems do these rooms solve? What gain does the Norwegian people get in a hall? General claims that the state owns too much, and that power should spread, are the only wretched answer we get. We have good reason to see some technical evidence of the allegations that the State hall will lead to more power spread in the Norwegian capital market. So far, we've seen that Japanese Mitsubishi has bought Cermaq, and a wondering if the Chinese want to buy the Fly train. Nor can I understand that it is better that the wallets for private news benefit from the exchange for the company to go to them, than that these funds go to the community, all of us. Single items from a room will not go to more teachers, to more health or to more elderly people. In several notes, the majority of the business committee, all the non-profits Right and the Progress Party, point to a number of strengths of state ownership, among others. relate to long-termity and stability, that ownership has a bearing on maintaining, attracting and developing the knowledge environment in Norway, and that state ownership can participate in and ensure control of production, goods and services of importance for national security, security of supply or for the preservation of national sovereignty. All these forces of state ownership are completely sub-communicated by the Right Party and the Progress Party. Historically, state ownership has meant an incredible amount to industrial development in Norway, and the state has shown that it is involved in the developments actually taking place in society. That's the way it is today, and that's how it should be in the future. The Labour Party is disappointed that neither the government party nor the supporting parties were able to highlight the role of Norsk Hydro ASA as an important contributor to domestic industrial and competence development, jobs and the management of the major Norwegian natural resources. This no longer wants the government to define as part of the goal of the state's ownership, which we find alarming. There are large values that the Right and the Advance Party will sell, values that today yield good returns to society every year. It's not just bad politics to sell, it's also bad store, and we need the returns from the company. Totally, I guess we got about 25 billion. kr from these companies last year. There is a great deal to do in school, there is a serious amount of care for the elderly, and there is a serious amount of health that falls if you sell everything. Several of the large companies in which the state is a co-owner also create a mine for development and innovation in new companies that are out of activity in the industrial clusters. This provides many possibilities ahead. The ideological sale, with the argument that private are better owners, is not a threat. The basis for this policy must have been the study circle of Young Right or FpU to understand. I would like to make a small appeal to the Left and the representative, Mr Farstad, who from the Chair is asking for exactly the same thing as the Labour Party and the Central Party are asking for in motion No. 9: When they agree with that suggestion, they must also vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1569	What we're going to live on in the future is closely related to how we manage our values today, and the significant ownership portfolio of the Norwegian state, both nationally and internationally. What are the principles that we follow for this ownership, the purpose of which we use for ownership in different companies and in different sectors, the importance of state ownership for private ownership, the importance of state ownership for the competitiveness of Norwegian business – all these are issues that affect what I started with: what and how the Norwegian State owns, directly intervenes in what we should live on now, and what we should live on in the future. The message we are debating today is therefore not a message about what we are going to sell – which you can get the impression of when you hear some representatives in the pulpit here – but a message about what and how we should own. I support the government's view that private ownership should be the main rule in Norwegian business, and I am pleased to record that there is an overall committee behind this central formulation. In 2002, the Bondevik government designed ten principles of good ownership, which indicate how the government will act as owner and what the government will expect of the companies. These principles have created predictability in the country’s ownership exercise which is favourably received by the players in the Norwegian capital market. The country’s principles of good ownership have remained unchanged since 2002, i.e. through four different governments. In addition, we share companies in state-owned companies, the main objective of which is to maximise the values of government investment, and state-owned companies with sectoral policy objectives, the overall objective of which is to achieve the objective in a resource-efficient way. The Labour Party did not change these principles during its term of government, nor in its comments today. But that's especially when you can read that the Stoltenberg government nevertheless had some extra principles for government governance, some you had next door. The paradox is that several places in the Workers' Party's remarks find that workers' party representatives do not find it necessary to govern according to these principles when in opposition. It's a double communication from the Workers' Party. At the end of the previous ageing period, the debate on the sale of Cermaq created quite high temperatures in this room. Cermaq was defined by the red-green government as a category 1 company, i.e. a company that we retained for business reasons and business purposes. I'm not going to go into the debate about whether Marine Harvest would become a good owner or not, but an argument that was then put forward by the Workers' Party and the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Trond Giske, was the following: Cermaq has a large feed and research division called EOS. It is desirable to maintain it in Norway. Research and knowledge are important for the maritime food cluster. So you had an industrial reason for keeping the EMU. Gist even suggested in the debate that this was so important that one should probably have characterized Cermaq as a company with sectoral policy objectives. For us who agreed with the Stoltenberg II government's own principles, that respecting the distinctions between the State's role as a policy designer, market regulator, authority operator and the role of the State as its owner is important in order to ensure legitimacy and to create confidence in the State as its owner, this was a rather surprising position of the Minister of Industry. When the Stoltenberg government with the same Minister of Industry shortly after selling this important knowledge division to two US investment funds, the surprise was even greater. So they sold it without any industrial reason. The working party is surprised again when they find it opportune to point out that Cermaq ASA has been sold abroad, without clarifying what it means. So you don't have any sense of ownership, you have to put on a note to disagree. Cermaq ASA has therefore been sold, with a mandate issued by Stoltenberg II, to one of the largest food groups in Japan, which adds capital and competence to the company, strengthens the possibility of research and development and, last but not least, facilitates its market access to Japan, one of the world's largest and best paying markets. So here it is that the government and Minister of Industry Mæland have sold with an industrial reason. We have cleared up the challenging position it will be when the state is to adopt both laws and ownership, manage and control the same company. Here the discussion of the sustainability of the aquaculture industry should be known to all members of the nutrition committee. In conclusion, the working party fully points out in its observations that a principle applies only to the Working Party needs a different principle. I think that's what you put in the 'dynamic ownership model'.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1601	One might well say that the government's proposals in the submitted ownership announcement for the sale and sale of strategic state companies have received a lot of attention and put feelings into the Norwegian people. The government has not indicated and thus failed to understand why it is important to sell. The arguments are only ideologically motivated, and the main argument has been the spread of power and the strengthening of private ownership. We call for a real reason that the state owns too much, that power has to spread, and that it is better that only private run business. We also welcome the fact that the counter-arguments relating to the sale of individual companies that have emerged during the processing of the notification by Storting seem to have come as a surprise to the government. This testifies to poor political craftsmanship on the part of the government. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have limited the government's sales plans. The attitude of the Business Committee shows that the government is on a collision course with the majority of the Stortinget also in ownership policy. The majority are united in a wide range of comments and are more positive to state and active ownership than the government parties are. We also agree with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that all the advantages of state ownership are sub-communicated by the government. The majority of the Committee would like to see an active state ownership that not only manages the Community's financial values but is also driving to safeguard parts of society's shared values. State forest is the people's own. The intention to provide the general public with opportunities for hunting, fishing and outdoor life is to maintain state ownership in the State Forest. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have argued over several years against the State having to own forests and want to privatize. They also later believe that it is only in Norway that the state owns forest. But on an international scale, the Norwegian state is not a large forest owner. We own about 14 pst. of the forest here in the country. The number in e.g. Finland is 30 pst. When Stortinget bought Borregaard Forests in his time, it was added to an arrondering sale of scattered forest land. The assumption was that such resale of properties would provide opportunities for active local ownership. Experience has been successful. Based on what we are now experiencing, the arrondering sale of scattered forest parcels has been largely completed with what has been sold. Therefore, we believe that if further sale of the forest implies that larger properties must be sold, it is no longer a matter of arrondance sales, and that should be stopped. The government says in the notice that their goal is to sell land equivalent to what was purchased, i.e. 1.1 million measures. This involves approx. 1⁄4 of the productive forest area and is something quite different than a roundabout sale. This means that large forest properties are sold out, and if we see this in conjunction with the announced repeal of the concession law and the price regulation on agricultural properties, this could lead to sales to ASs and to non-resident owners. It becomes even more incomprehensible when the government writes in the Communication that they will consider different models for the privatisation of the entire forest activity of Statskog – and this will be presented by 1 March. The Labour Party believes that having a large state forest company will also be an important driver in the development of the forest as an industry in Norway. Such an eternal renewable resource as Statskog represents should be in Norwegian hands, in the ownership of the Community. We agree with all those who ask questions about what will be the consequences for public access to hunting and fishing if State forest is privatised. And how will Right respect private property rights while ensuring public access to hunting and fishing? This could be interesting to get an answer to. We don't think it can be solved in a good way. Therefore, the Workers' Party, together with the Center Party, proposes that the Stortinget ask the government to stop the process of privatising Statskog.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1637	First, it may be worth remembering that there is agreement on much related to state ownership. We agree that there should be a ownership of good business. It is no longer such — if ever so — that state ownership is a sleeping cushion for poor, unprofitable operations. We are concerned with such qualities as keeping our head office in Norway, and we are concerned with ownership based on justification – that means the reason for any sale and justification for any purchase. I notice that the main reason given to the government for selling in some key areas – or most – is the spread of power and several owners. I think that is a good goal, but the questions must then be: When we use the powers requested to achieve these objectives? And is that the second goal in a time of rapid change? When we're critical of some of the powers the government is now asking for, it's because we ask questions about whether there will be real spread of power if there are more private owners. We have focused in particular on Telenor, Kongsberg Gruppe, Flytoget and Statskog, and we are not convinced of the answers we receive. The goal of the government, as we hear here, is to bring down the state ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange. At the same time, we are told that this proposal for sales is almost non-existent, the proportion is just going down from 33 pst. until 31 pst. I believe that the percentage of state ownership is a poor criterion to govern – whether it is one percent higher or one percent lower. We need to understand the story in order to understand why we have a high percentage of state ownership in Norway. One of the reasons is that Statoil and Telenor, with the Workers' Party in the government position, came to Oslo Børs, and thus brought a large state ownership into the capital markets. We can also, when we look at some of these companies, and at the probability of potential buyers, assume that on sale it is the foreign ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange that is going to go up, not necessarily the spread of power and the Norwegian – without being said anything fundamentally wrong about the foreign. So the question is, is there anything else? Are there other criteria in our time that we should focus on in terms of thinking in the long term, thinking strategy for society, industry, technology, knowledge and resource management? We have been particularly critical of the proposals for sales in Telenor, the Kongsberg Group, the Flytog and Statskog, and I record that after the committee reading the argument has changed. Where we met last summer and beyond in the fall with a very clear argument about sales in the companies in order to get power spread and more owners, the foot is set down in a slightly different way. The majority have stopped the sale. There will not be sales of the Kongsberg Group, the Flytrain and the State Forest, to refer to the head of the Finance Committee, Hans Olav Syversen from the Christian People's Party. I would also like to refer to what the representative Heggø referred to from the nomination, that the majority of the Business Committee points in several notes to a number of strengths of state ownership related to long-term and stability, that ownership is important for developing knowledge environments in Norway, and that state ownership can help to ensure control of the production of goods and services of importance to national security, security of supply or national sovereignty. There is a more positive, modern understanding of this than the government used in its communication, so we can well record that the treatment in the committee has changed its perspective – plus that we have once again had a discussion about what critical infrastructure means. I recall the Bondevik II government – well, it was – where Minister of Justice Dørum worked to make society aware of what critical infrastructure was, and what ownership meant in that context. For Telenor, the government will now have its sales authorisation. That is against the votes of the Labour Party. This does not mean that we are opposed to Telenor seeking industrial partners and, as a result, that the state's ownership can change. We fear that a sale for sale will put Telenor in a weaker position to discuss future alliances and cooperation. Secondly, we are not as sure as the government's support parties that the government will take into account the preparedness consequences, which we believe should have been further assessed. Again, the request for a sale has gone ahead. In the Labour Party we are now looking forward. We will continue to raise the debate on state ownership and promote more concrete proposals on how state ownership should be further developed. State ownership is not a goal, but a means of achieving goals. It is the discussion of the objectives that should address the political change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1665	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1669	If nothing else, the government parties are to be commended for one thing in this case: For us who are so prepared that we would have liked to have discussed state ownership policy both in time and in the run-up to the year, this message is a gift package. It hasn't exactly been a lack of opportunities to talk about ownership in the last few weeks, and the theme has come up in the most unusual contexts, because the commitment is great. The exposure is high for the sale and sale of our common property, our common resources. In my home country, Hedmark, it is the heirloom we have in Statskog's possession that has been the great concern, but there has been a headstrong arrogance over what must be an ideologically justified proposal to sell, for example. The plane train. This exposure is gradually known. The vast majority do not want to sell or privatize State Forest, they do not want to sell the Flytrain. The suspension of the assessment of the flight train is of little help. This isn't sensory. Like in the debate on the Labour Environment Act, on the State budget, on the right of reservation, etc. We have heard in this case that the people do not understand, that those who have warned against the sale have not read the message well enough, and that we, who are opposed to selling Statskog, Flytogen and Telenor, are it for romantic and irrational reasons. But it's not like that. If there's anything here that's sensory, it has to be government parties' unshakable belief that private ownership is almost by definition and in any context better than public ownership. Both in the message and in what we hear from the majority parties, there is a lot of talk about the spread of power and diversity. And the state can't contribute that kind of money. Isn't it? What's the state really? It's kind of banal, maybe, but the state is all of us. And state ownership in e.g. Telenor is the only possibility both me and most of the others in this country here have to be with and own and influence the Telenor or the Kongsberg Group or large forest estates. That's what the spread of power is. The fact that Ola and Kari Nordmann have ownership in Telenor, represented by a professional and long-term state, gives a much greater diversity than if a few sought-after investors are to take over all ownership positions. When selling such large companies, as many have been involved in the debate today, it is not about small local private owners. We are likely to talk about large foreign investors or, at best, large Norwegians. Then there's also a question: what happens then with their ability to invest in new companies that need investors and industrial skills? There is one of several unanswered questions to which the communication is suspended and to which neither the communication nor the debate has so far been able to give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1680	This debate on ownership and state ownership is important. Instead of discussing the important principle of ownership, the debate – at least until now – has been limited to cheap rhetoric. In the press, the Labour Party has actually created full confusion about its own policy. They have criticised the government's ownership policy while Jonas Gahr Støre in the media, and to this extent also here today, has given his support to the reduction of both Telenor and Kongsberg's group in the event of a merger – exactly as it is set out in the ownership message. And when I hear Ingrid Hegø here today, there is real doubt about both what has appeared in the media, and what they say in connection with the ownership message. I think we almost have to look at what the Labour Party did in the eight years they put in government. This must reflect the Labour Party's actual policy. What did they do? Well, they sold Bane Tele and Secora AS, they reduced the ownership of the Veterinary Mission Centre, they were authorized to sell Cermaq, SAS and Entra, and the approved sales of EWOS. The working party is running with pure mischief of what they did when they put into government. It is produced as if this ownership message, which we are discussing today, is about selling the country, as Ingrid Heggo talks about. Had the Labour Party been right in its rhetoric, the country had been sold long ago. That's how Jonas Gahr Støre says: there's good and broad agreement about much of what's in the ownership message. It is important that the state, through its ownership, secures the interests that are important to society. It may be of market failure, national anchoring of resources, companies, competences and other societal interests. There is broad agreement here in Stortinget that the state should not always be the owner of the company. It is therefore a comment that everyone – the whole committee – is in favour of private ownership and should be the main rule in Norwegian business. And when Odd Omland today asks for arguments for State ownership halls, he will get it: The role of the state in business should be limited to facilitating competition with laws and rules – not even participating in competition with private operators, so if the purpose of ownership is only commercial. It is not only the Labour Party that has a monopoly on defining business interests and not. The ownership of a company plays a major role in the company's competitiveness and value creation. And when the state acts as the dominant owner of a company operating in an open competition, there is a rapid conflict of objectives, both with the state's role or with the state's role as authority. This may be true in many contexts. I'm thinking, for example. in SAS, where they have access to much more equity than many other companies have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1695	The ownership message contained two very bad news for Buskerud: sales in Kongsberg Gruppe and Statskog. This is bad news for Kongsberg and the Ringeriks region. Fortunately, reason has been greater in Stortinget. No sales authorisation is currently granted for the Kongsberg Group and State Forest. In a press release, Hans Olav Syversen, of the Christian People's Party, said: ‘We are pleased that the government parties at Stortinget have listened to the KrF and Left, and stop a number of powers before important investigations and reforms have been carried out.’ And he went on to say, ‘We shall continue to have control over infrastructure, natural resources and technology and information related to national security.’ It's all right, but how long? The Labour Party and the Centre Party are in the setting alone to stop the privatisation of Statskog - the majority will investigate. As regards the Kongsberg Group, the majority only requests that attention be given to national safety assessments whose parts of the company are to be sold. But this is about more than control, isn't it? It is well about how the State should develop strategic ownership to ensure continued innovation and business start-ups related to heavy industrial locomotives, such as the Kongsberg Group. Headquarters and negative majority are not enough if another dominant owner were to seek to unravel the company on the basis of short-term interests. These aren't my words, but it's a warning from the Kongsberg Group itself, and they should know what they're talking about. Future investment in road and rail makes the opportunities for the Ringerix region opening up, but more is needed than housing and shorter travel time to Oslo. Natural assumptions must be used to develop new, forward-looking business activities, and the forest is such a prerequisite. The sale of State Forest gives a clear signal to the Ring Kingdom that the government does not intend to participate strategically in this development. And it's gotten strangely quiet about the 750 million. kr that the red-green government has granted to the development of a forest industry for the future. There was a bet that was well received by the forest industry itself, and state forest was there intended an important role. The current government would rather sell. Then it helps little to increase the allocation of forest roads from 10 million. NOK 20 million. kr when the perspectives are missing. Before the elections, the Morten Wold of the Progress Party and Ketil Solvik-Olsen said that «State sales in enterprises such as Kongsberg Group are no longer current policies for Frp». [[...]] And Røres Trond Helleland followed up with “this is not something you want to go on as soon as the Right has hung off the coat in the government offices”. So that's how much those promises were worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1720	It is gratifying to note that there is a broad consensus on the general principles of state ownership and that the government has been given a majority in most assessments. You shouldn't believe that when you look at the debate that's going on in the media. Of the state companies mentioned in the ownership notification, there are in particular three companies that have been discussed: the Flytog, the Kongsberg Group and the State Forest. The first two are examined and, in the case of State Forest, no power of sale has been requested in the ownership notification. When Statskog bought Borregaard Forests in 2010, the red-green government asked for a power to sell 600 000 measures of land already owned by Statskog. ‘New historical forest sales’ was the way the Stoltenberg II government presented this. The process they themselves initiated has now become ‘sales of Norway’ and is produced as if there are no longer opportunities for outdoor activity, hunting or fishing. When the process was initiated by the Stoltenberg administration, there was no reservation to ensure either outdoor interests, hunting or fishing. The government's press release in 2011, with the Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck of the Centre Party, says that sales represent a unique opportunity to strengthen the nutrient base of forest owners in the country. And the extraordinary business meeting of Statskog SF on 27 May 2011 provides, inter alia, for: the following criterion: ‘The assets are sold at market prices through bidding. Forests shall seek to obtain the highest price possible for the properties.’» A professional and good ownership, both private and public, is important for Norway. Our competitiveness and value creation depend on the establishment, further development and running of profitable businesses and the conversion or liquidation of unprofitable ones. There are several good reasons why the State should be the owner of different companies. State ownership shall contribute to the pursuit of socio-economic and social considerations and Norway will, in the foreseeable future, have significant State ownership. But it is private ownership that is the general rule in Norwegian business. Increased private ownership, increased ownership diversity and a stronger ownership environment in Norway contribute to raising competitiveness, and I am pleased that an overall nutrition committee agrees on the importance of this. Foreign owners and their capital have also played a major role in the development of business and jobs in Norway, from the early 1900s until today. It is invested in large and capital-intensive enterprises, often linked to the export industry. And foreign capital has helped to lay the economic foundation for a number of businesses in Norway. Examples from my own county are Elkem, with Chinese owners, and Berryalloc with Belgian owners. Without non-resident capital, it is not certain that these enterprises had existed today. The ownership notification is not a sales notification, but there is a notification of what the country should own, how the country should own, and principles of good ownership management. And it is gratifying that the government has great support in Stortinget for its assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1740	It's an engaging debate, this, and it's a very important topic we're up to, and I want to start by commenting on Gunnar Gundersen's contributions on recruitment strategy, on which the Workers' Party and the Centre have made suggestions. Because I don't think he has realized that we're asking the government to come to Stortingen with a recruitment strategy. We haven't said that it's every company that's going to the Stortinget with it. It's very unpresist in the setting, and it also seemed that Gundersen stood for what it says, from the Right side, and I think you might want to look at that a little bit closer. As for the posts of the representative Jørund Rytman, I have to say that it was strange to hear that innovation is happening only in the private companies, and not in the state. Then I can recommend a company visit to the Kongsberg Group or Telenor and see if someone finds any innovation there. I hope at least that it can be quite easily accessible information about this. So to Trellevik, who said that the Stoltenberg government has sold the Veterinary Medical Mission Centre: No, it is the authority that will be given today, so it has not been sold in the past. I want to say that there is a very important job Christian People's Party and the Left have done in this treatment, and I am very grateful that you have put on the brake you have done. I also believe – as I hear it – that there is a much more constructive approach to the situation you face, in the individual companies you have had, in the job, and there has been an important focus and good support from the rest of the opposition on it. So a little bit about the government versus the people: I was just called up by a media company that was going to put out a poll on what the people think about the sale to the government, and it's like the people are very opposed to the sales that have been debated here in the hall, both in the Flytog, the Kongsberg Group and Telenor. The sale in Telenor is actually the most positive of the people – with 60 pst. Which is also against that sale – so I don't think it's necessarily just the Workers' Party that has been against these sales; the people are also very clear that they are. So I think it's going to be important in processing this forward, and that the Left and Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition are working to find constructive solutions if the government doesn't intend to do it, but only runs ideology further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1756	This debate shows clear contradictions between the plurality, which means that it wants a moderate state hall, and the opposition, which seems to think that the greater the state property one has, the better it is – up to a limit, probably. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, is probably the one who goes farthest there, for he says: The state owns too little. The opposition uses many emotional manipulations, such as ‘national ownership’, ‘retaining competence’, ‘sell Norway bit by bit’ and ‘no to the hall of Norway’. In addition to this, it is difficult to see what the real arguments are for state ownership. For example, the question of whether it is socially viable for a country to have the most economic ownership of its business is: none from the opposition that has attempted to enter. But there is nothing to suggest that state-owned enterprises are more innovative and contribute more to the community than private enterprises do. Government ownership is also no guarantee that what is happening in the companies is clean and orderly, and that it is legal in every way. The importance of climate and the environment is also no guarantee that it will be better cared for. For example, in the case of: corruption, then we have several examples of corruption associated with big companies where the state is a big owner. Yara-saka is such an example. Several directors were charged with corruption, and the company received a Statoil, which in 2002 entered into an agreement with Iranian officials on the payment of about 5 million. dollar, made a deal in the U.S. and was fined by Ekokrim. Two directors in Statoil had to leave Hydro because of corruption in Libya in 2001. Telenor has also had serious debts against its former partners in India and also against the Russian company VimpelCom, where they are also a large owner. These examples show that public and state ownership is no guarantee that illegal things happen – on the contrary. And so it's like most countries have a much lower state ownership than we have. In Norway it's now 35 pst, while in Sweden it's 8 pst. and in France 10 pst. There should be something that impresses more than me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1767	It's been an interesting debate so far. To the representative Gahr Støre I would like to make it clear that he reads the settings and not the press releases, so no permission has been requested for Statskog, and nothing has been stopped at all – it has been postponed until we get any framework conditions in place. Then the Flytog and Kongsberg Group will be dealt with. But after the debate, we are left with the impression that the Workers' Party is now the biggest opponent of the local forest owner. So they're going to go against their own sale, and the bottom line says that the areas available for a roundabout sale are over. Where does she get that? I do not know where she has received that information, but if it is correct, it says something about a miserable preparation of her own mandate. So we're just halfway on the power that the red-greens themselves have acquired. It is claimed in today's Financial Newspaper that this is starting to get closer to the end. But the clue so far in the debate is that the Workers' Party is the only ones allowed to sell. When they do that, that's right. When others do it, it's kind of tilted up against all of the other characteristics. We are called upon to answer everything that is, and it is claimed that we do not have the power to answer truthfully. Then I ask myself, where is the credibility of the Workers' Party? Where do we get the answers from the Workers' Party on what they did in Cermaq in a number of areas, where really only price tents – Giske has boasted of it in today's business, that price was the only goal. And then everything was right. So a dynamic Labour Party ownership policy really seems to be the most dynamic pipe, as the debate has gone. To Lise Christoffersen: To claim that the Workers' Party's forest package was a success, when most of the money is still on Investinor and does not come into operation, is quite remarkable. Half of the Norwegian timber processing industry was demolished, and then a couple of dollars were spent in the account. It's the Workers' Party forest package. I think the debate has been quite clarifying in some areas. The Labour Party really has no other policy than that they're the only ones who decide what's right. I also think it is quite remarkable that the centre party has gone from being the small business party out in District Norway to becoming a state capitalist no. 1st@item: inlistbox If we look at how to handle the mandates, etc. in the suspension, the Central Party is the absolute largest defender of state capitalism. That's pretty interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1780	I took the word because there were several people talking about Kongsberg, and in the same treaty they wondered why the state should no longer have. From 1937 on, Kongsberg was a management company operating with both the defence industry, the car industry and other industries. In 1987 this company had serious problems. It almost went bankrupt, and it was chords. In that round there was a public limited-liability company and a partial privatization, and there was a very high degree of intervention in this respect. Since then, this company has developed completely phenomenal. FMC Kongsberg Subsea is an American company today, but it's big here in Norway, with several thousand added, and has the subsea business out here from Norway and is heavy on this. In addition, they have developed Kongsberg Maritime, Kongsberg Oil & Gas and Kongsberg Automotive – there are many Kongsberg companies that have developed very positively after this partial privatisation. So the conflict, as I've seen he expressed here, is Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace. They have developed an amazing amount of good things, including: the new maritime missiles to our frigates. This maritime missile is among the world's best missiles, with the best technology in the world. It's not entirely uninteresting for Norway as a nation, for NATO, and for the Americans that the knowledge of this is going on. There's no one who would like that, and they got rules for that in NATO context as well. My point is that this company has enormous potential. New F-35 aircraft are being developed, and this missile can be adapted to it. Missiles are being developed to fit helicopters; missiles are being developed to fit other new types of vessels. If Kongsberg is to be able to participate in this development, they are absolutely required to be able to orient themselves into the big world, among the greatest actors. Then Kongsberg needs frameworks that allow them to develop and find a partner to reach the growth and industrial potential of this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1791	Clear contradictions in the debate, says the representative Hagesetter. Always agree, says the representative Trellevik and refers to the article by Jonas Gahr Støre. To take the last one first, to Trellevik: it pays to follow at least a little bit of what is said. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has not – a cork in the media or here today – rusted or accepted the hall in Telenor and the Kongsberg Group. On the contrary, the Labour Party is clear that we are against this. The comments to which the representative Gahr Støre referred – yes, there is no Right and the Progress Party. There's every reason to stay a little bit by the fact that the arguments against the hall of a single company seem to have come quite surprising at the government party, and that no one from the government party will comment on that right here today. The fact that the government wanted to sell the Fly train independently of the announced railway reform, merges into the set of changes for change's sake. The same applies to the Kongsberg Group, where the government party has not carried out any distributions at the front of the salsivator, but is still to be sold. Selling down the Kongsberg Group without considering the security policy would open up to new owners in a company that develops important defence technology. It seems very little thoughtful, as many people have pointed out. Why the government does not vote for Labour Party and the Central Party's proposal No. 9, is also strange and would like to be a work of urgency, as well. This hasty work does not testify to the power of action. This is an example of poor political craftsmanship. The Minister of Industry argued that we must have a reason to own. No, it's the opposite. One should have a reason to sell. Get a big industrial player that can be involved and develop the company – yes, it can be such a reason. But selling consistently in large industrial companies to 34 pst. therefore no good handling space is set industrially. The case of Vale and Hydro is a good example of that. Had the state there had 34 pst, one came far below 34 pst. in connection with the purchase. But one doesn't want to get into such a position, so it's a goal to be above 34 pst. It would be very nice to hear the Minister of Industry's thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1811	It was said from the pulpit here: we don't want any sales of state forest. No, we're not going to privatize and sell all of Statskog. No one has said that, and no one has plans. But on the other hand, we are going to sell out some drifting forest properties, so that local forest owners have the opportunity to develop their operations. The Labour Party has also said that before. The representative of Christoffersen said that sales in Statskog are bad news for Buskerud. Funny, for just selling in the state forest and selling forest properties are positive news for forest owners and farmers in Hedmark and Uppland, who get the opportunity to expand their property, develop their property in a good way and operate more efficiently and rationally. A forest owner in the Gudbrand valley who previously had 2,300 decks of forest, and who got 5 800 decks from Statskog, is very satisfied. Now I can run rationally and more efficiently, now I can bet on my forest, he says. This must be extremely positive for business and for the development of local business. I am a little surprised by the rhetoric and accusations that come from, among other things. The working party in this respect. Now Omland says that if larger properties are to be sold, the process has to be stopped. It's also said that the arrondance sale is over. But it has been said in the past that it will be sold out approx. 600 000 dekars. So far, 148 properties have been sold on a total of 273 dekars. Then the arrondissement sale cannot be over yet. There are still many forest owners around this country who can get more forest, who can be allowed to develop their properties, and who can be involved and contribute to earnings locally and for local business. This I hope to continue, and I hope that those forest owners who are on the waiting list, and who want to continue to operate in a good way, will have the opportunity to do so without anyone being able to stop it in any way, as the Workers' Party here wants. Through the sale of State Forest, we want to facilitate local businesses and local forest users. So I hope they can keep doing that in the future, and that they can develop this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1823	Ingrid Heggø appealed to the left and signed to turn to a particular point in this case. As I was in a previous post, the Left has been given an overview of virtually all the important points in the ownership issue, which we are debating today. I dare say so. That is why we will be firmly committed to the wording and comments we have made in committee. To a large extent, the majority of the committee is involved in creating a ownership policy that has been significantly changed in relation to the government presented, i.e. a turn towards the centre. Of course, we are very pleased with that. And much more than that should not be expected of either the Workers' Party or others. It is almost so that you can get the impression that the representative Heggø is disappointed that we in the center have got as much as we have done in this matter. Then I have to get into a point that Hegø was at, this is because the fish resources are at full speed over on foreign hands. In that case, there is one thing I don't know about, and it might be interesting to know if there are any processes here from the government that would indicate that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1832	This debate has shown that there are many, especially in the Right and Advance Party, who have good, strong memories after eight red-green years and are most concerned about that time. I can say that I also think it was eight good years and of course want us to get that position again. I react to the fact that many, particularly from the Right and the Advance Party, are talking about a user of cheap rhetoric, that an appeal to emotion, that one is denying the public debate that has been taking place on these important issues since the government made its proposal. It is an important debate that deserves to be taken seriously, and I believe that there is broad support if one believes that state ownership is an instrument to ensure national ownership. As far as Telenor is concerned, I have come to the conclusion that the Council of State has been a little bit concerned before, that one does not necessarily see a sale in terms of selling shares, but finding industrial solutions. There I would like to stress that the Central Party has raised one solution: is it that we may be able to maintain a rather heavy ownership of our home Telenor, but needs the state to own over 50 pst. by a company that has very many mobile customers in Asia? Is it possible to look at this? Note that the Stortinget has underlined the relationship with critical infrastructure and its ownership, and there is no doubt that Telenor owns the type of infrastructure in Norway. Then I was accused of state capitalism by the representative Gunnar Gundersen. That's easy for me to take. I would like to remind you that on 24 September last year, there was one thing in today's business – it was Yara and CF Industries that were negotiating. This came out, and there they stood up – Øyvind Korsberg from the Progress Party, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen from the Right and Line Henriette Hemdal from the Christian People's Party – and underlined that the head office was to be maintained in Norway. And the representative of Korsberg stressed that the Progress Party wanted to maintain the state's ownership. Yes, it would involve buying shares for 20-30 billion. kr in order to hold that majority and maintain the State’s holding in such a company. It's worth taking with you. I think it was an affordable position, but one should be careful to criticize others in such a context. So I can't see what advantage it should be for Norwegian private ownership and local Norwegian owners, that Mitsubishi buys Cermaq. The representative of Gundersen underlined this. So I don't see that connection, because we want to use state ownership in an active way, but of course it's private ownership that's the main rule in Norway, and there's no doubt that an overall committee thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1843	State Council Listhaug told me in reply that the Workers' Party had not had any suggestions and had not done anything for the forest. There are direct errors and a statement against better knowledge. We presented the Woods of Norway report with many measures, and we presented a package of forests in the budget, with measures and appropriations following it. It was our government that put down the Forest 22 group, which has now concluded, and which was also a proposal in the Woods of Norway report. So back to the rhetoric one hears from the Right and the Advance Party, that what the government does, is the same thing as the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government did in their time. It's a direct mistake, because we're dealing with what's in the message – and now I'm talking about Statskog. It says that the government's goal is to sell 1.1 million dean, and it's started an investigation of State Forest. What we're saying is, first of all, that the investigation into the privatisation of state forest, we say no, that we don't agree with that, and that's a real difference. But now, if we're not going to have concession law and price regulation law either, we're afraid of both AS and foreign owners. The government is talking about 1.1 million dekars, and then the representative Gundersen asked me in reply to why the Workers' Party had no reservations about hunting and fishing on their sale. We relate to what one did in its time, that there were scattered forest parcels, as we said in the message, that were to be sold. It's clear that when we're going to start selling probably larger forest parcels, then it's important that there's a continuous area, so it's real to be able to do hunting and fishing, because on small and scattered cadastral parcels it's not possible. What we have said about scattered cadastral parcels is that we see – based on those signals – that the target is almost reached. Then we have said that when the goal is reached, yes, then one should end. But if there are any scattered cadastral parcels left, we haven't closed it with this. These are the objectives which were at the heart of our committee's comments in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1852	Let me start by giving a little tribute to the private ownership, which is absolutely amazing, and which leads to a lot of businesses being good and forward-looking. I want to continue this and say that the state ownership is no less fantastic than the private. On the contrary, I believe that state ownership has some advantages in itself also for the development of industry and in the economic development of Norway. State ownership is essentially long-term. It's essentially industrial, or justified in a long-term bond, and I would like to stress that it's highly professional, and it's also careful. I think that'll benefit the companies. I think it also benefits the companies that cooperate and develop in parallel with the state enterprises. One example is Statoil – linked to Aker – and another type of supplier industry. It is of great importance that the State, through its ownership of Statoil, has a long-term industrial entrance. Maybe one should have an even more industrial entrance connected to Statoil than what one actually has, but one has chosen a very cautious line because one is the state of ownership. I think it has an enormous importance in the development of Norwegian business, and that dimension seems to me to be insufficient in the debate. It is not the case that a moderate sale by the State, for which the representative Mr Hageseter refers, is initially justified in a positive way. Why do you need a moderate government sale? What qualities does it add to Norwegian business? And what capital, if any, will take over after a moderate government sale? An interesting question. I believe that capital is neither long-term nor industrially directed, nor has sufficient professionalism behind it. I think that is a reality. So to Statskog: Yes, one would like to discuss Statskog up and down, but when a quote former Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck, one should do it with a real and honest starting point. The background for the arrondissement sales to which the red-green government provided when it came to State Forest, was about us making a larger transaction and taking over Borregaard Forests – to strong resistance in this hall from both the Right and the Advance Party, who thought this was a pointless use of state ownership. On the contrary, I think this has helped to do something for Norwegian forestry. [[The President clubs.]] So finally, a question to the representative Gundersen: What has the Right done for Norwegian forestry? [[The President clubs again.]] Nothing!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1865	The President asks you to stay within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1868	The representative of Aasland lacked an argument for state ownership, and it happened basically in the second I wondered if he had stolen my script, when I argued in my post why in many cases the state should actually own and is a good owner. The representative Heggø called for a speculation on my part related to Hydro. I don't think I have to or should do that, simply because in the ownership message that we're now discussing, we've explained that the state is going to own Norsk Hydro, that we're going to own 34 pst. in Norsk Hydro, and therefore we do not ask for any authority to sell ourselves into Norsk Hydro. Should a situation arise, we have to decide on it, but then the starting point is that we still have to own 34 pst. in Norwegian Hydro – just so it's obvious. Then the Workers' Party has been concerned that they are opposed to the authority requested by the government to consider reducing the state ownership of the Kongsberg Group and Telenor. One is very clear here that one could never imagine reducing the state ownership of Telenor and Kongsberg Group, if I understood the representatives Botten and Hegø correctly. But that was not what party leader Gahr Støre said, neither here in the hall today nor in DN on 25 January, where the title was: «Can use shares as a means of exchange». I just have a problem understanding how to insist that the state should own at least 50 pst. in those companies, at the same time as a possible industrial solution in which shares are used as a means of exchange by the State. You can't be both for and against at the same time, and that's what confuses this debate a little bit on a matter where we're very clear on what we think the state should own in these companies. So finally, a point has been made that you want to strengthen gender equality and recruitment in relation to the ownership message. I initially agree with that, and that is why the government in this communication has made clear the responsibility of the board for this work. But what's the difference is who's going to do this work – who's going to make the strategies for promoting equality and getting more diversity in management and governance? In this ownership message, we are clear that this is the responsibility of the boards. The Boards are going to make strategies, and we're going to follow it up in our ownership dialogue with the Boards. According to the proposal that lies here in the Chamber, the government is going to do this work. It is all right, but the work has to be done by the boards – they know their companies, their challenges, their labour markets and their ability to influence them. They're the ones who are going to do the job according to the role we've always had between government, government and greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1879	It has been interesting to follow this debate. There's a lot of things that have come on the table, and then there's still a lot of questions that are very unclear. What kind of assessments have doctors behind what is a satisfactory state ownership level in Norway, to me, is very unclear. What is the correct level? When is there enough small state, and when is there too much state? It's very unclear what kind of assessments have doctors behind to come up with it. As others have said, what is the industrial strategy in this, what are the long-term perspectives here? On the one hand, we're talking about Statoil, on the other hand, we're dealing with the whole thing. Breeding, which is completely open-minded, is one of the most interesting new industrial adventures for Norway. The question of state competence for industrial development is also very unclear what the government has put into it. And then this argument comes up about state capitalism. Then I just want to tell the representative, Gundersen, that the reason why the state owns the Flytogen AS is not that the state should make money. The reason why the state owns Flytoget AS is that one should increase the collective area around the capital region. So there's no capitalist reason why one has ownership of Flytoget AS, it's just a bigger sense of society that's the foundation. In the same way as this is a strong foundation for SV, SV believes that in several areas we should consider buying up, including in the farming industry. The sale of EWOS was a loss. Feed will not become less important, feed will become more important. Having a locomotive that is state-owned, with a strong state ownership, in this sector, can be entirely decisive as to whether we get an industrial development in Norway in this area. You should be able to see. What should be the objective of Norway in this matter has not come to a satisfactory conclusion in this debate. One has almost inconclusively isolated ideologically about owning or not owning, without looking at what kind of visions one has for the industry. So, finally, a few words about climate: it should be open, and fortunately I see that there are several parties in the committee that think ownership plays an important role in solving Norway's environmental challenges. Ownership is a tremendous ability we have to steer the development towards more resilient industries, new industrial projects that can create new export revenues for a country that is very dependent on oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1894	I can at least agree with the Council of State in one thing, that it is quite confusing when your political opponents are for and against the same time. That's why I referred to the Ketil Solvik-Olsen – now the Council of State, and then candidate – and Morten Wold of the Advance Party, who is now the Grand Representative from Buskerud, said in Buskerud before the elections. I quoted from Laagendalsposten on 16 August 2013 that ‘state sales in enterprises such as Kongsberg Group are no longer current policies’. [[...]] It is possible that the statement was related to the fact that it boiled in Kongsberg and in the constituencies of Kongsberg around that problem, and that this was just a lightning conductor that you didn't really mean. One might get the impression of it when one heard the post of the Hagesets here later. When Gunnar Gundersen tries to talk down the Workers' Party's forestry bet, I just want to remind you that this was the result of a thorough cooperation with the business interests themselves. There were measures for the entire value chain in that proposal, from forest cultivation to finished products, and that it had to be committed to an active industrial and strategic ownership, a good property structure – representative Ørsal Johansen – research and development of new future-oriented products and good framework conditions. Ownership could be linked to purchase and sale, but it could also be linked to land change to make things work together. There were more than 20 proposals under five main headings, including: «Forest as value chain» and «Strengthening instruments». Under ‘A strong and long-term ownership’, State Forest was intended to play an active role, in terms of both property management, resource management and forest management and possible strategic ownership participation in Norwegian forest industries. We had a headline called "Energy", and we had one called "Infrastructure". The proposal was very well received by the whole industry, both forest owners and representatives of the wood industry. I am fully aware that the money is on the book. They've done it as long as the blue-blue government sits. It was just before the blue-blue government took over that bet came, and that's why I asked: Where has it been of that money? What happens to that money? Where is the active effort of the state to contribute to a good and forward-looking forestry industry? Finally, when Trellevik says that the Kongsberg Group must be allowed to evolve in the big world, I think that's exactly what they're doing. What might be at least as important is that they bring entrepreneurs into the big world as well. And when the Kongsberg Group itself says that it weakens that potential by selling itself down to a negative majority of 34 pst., one should listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1907	Finally, I want to say that the point is that you totally bombed. The policy was blocked for eight years by a policy that did not focus on competitiveness. The results are what counts, and that's where you totally bombed. And to Aasland, we've done a lot. We have focused on competitiveness, we have proposed deregulation – which the industry is crying for – in order to have a different property structure, we have proposed a transport promise and increased budgets strongly on transport, on R & D and on everything that counts for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. And there's Norwegian forestry right in the middle of the nucleus. So we've done a lot already. And to Omland: Scattered cadavers? Yeah, well, where do you get that? The Stortinget has not moved any information that Statskog is on the move to empty the cadastral parcels. You asked for a mandate of 600 000 units on the grounds that scattered cadastral parcels were to be sold. You must have done a terrible job. That's the point. You have not prepared – and then you criticize this government for not doing preparatory work! It must also be realised that one's own powers were very poorly prepared. So to the bottom, about the recruitment strategy: I've read it very carefully. It is remarkable that the Botten himself says that it is misguided in the way you write it, but this is therefore the responsibility of the boards, because you have personal governance responsibility in Norway. If you enter a board of directors, you can be sued if you do not manage the company for the benefit of the company. In it, as the Minister of Industry has also said, there is, of course, a expectation that they will be recruited with the best competence – both women and men – and our government has been much clearer than the red-green government ever was. Then I get a little bit back to climate, because it goes on again. The point here is, do you appreciate the principles of self-regulation? I'm going to question that in terms of the Workers' Party, because highlighting climate means defusing the three other issues that the government is focusing on, and it's labour rights, it's corruption, and it's human rights. Social responsibility is a very broad spectrum. It will be very different from companies to companies what they are faced with, and the expectation is very clear, as stated in the ownership notice, and it is that the companies are going to handle it properly. Then we're not just talking about one theme. Then we're talking about the challenges companies face, and I think that's much better than writing comments in the Storting that just focus on one challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1920	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark limited to 1 minute. Furthermore, the President will request that the speech be addressed to the President and not directly to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1925	I want to start by cheering my good colleague, Mr. Farstad, that I am quite happy, myself, because the Left and Christian People's Party have drawn the ownership message in the right direction. I just wanted them to figure out what they were for. And then I ask that they notice what the Minister of Industry said, that the government will still sell itself down. After changing lines and different posts, I almost have to ask the government if they see it necessary to impose on private individuals buying forest property from Statskog, that the people should have free access to hunting and fishing. Is this what they think might come out of that statement? Then it's completely unnecessary to try to create an impression that the Workers' Party is against private owners, because we're not. So I noticed that Gundersen did not make a concrete contribution to what was the Right Forest Policy, but said that 250,000 new jobs, which came under the Red-Green Government, were totally bombing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1937	I have to get back to what is about governance principles, and why we handle a message like this. So that's for us to give a signal about how the state should be as owner. I must again be allowed to mention the four principles that the Workers' Party points out in the comments, and that the Stoltenberg government had to make extra provision for the State to exercise good ownership. The first principle says that: ‘exercise of ownership is based on the division of roles between the general meeting and the board of directors in company law and on generally accepted ownership management principles’. So that's what the Stoltenberg government put on its state council. When we then come to the guiding principles of the Workers' Party in this message, we say that we are against, but that is the guiding principles that have been in place since 2002, we say: «The Board is responsible for drawing up clear objectives and strategies for the company within the framework of the statutes, the State is expecting the company's results.» Then it becomes a little strange that we get a proposal from the Workers' Party that the government should come to the Stortinget with a strategy to recruit women. So initially, the Workers' Party is very much because the exercise of ownership is based on the role-allocation – it's important to see what roles you have. The principle of governance, which says that the board is responsible for the development of clear goals and strategies for the company, is therefore also accepted. Nevertheless, it is believed that the two principles do not apply if we are to make a somewhat delicious proposal, which is to impose on the government. So you go across all the principles, you go across everything you've said, even in the message that you're a part of. So to SV and County, which are actually the most extreme here, and which have big plans: the state is going to buy up both here and there, here you're really going to make money. It is a view one should respect, it should be allowed to take a different view of this, but when we discuss the ownership message in the Stortinget, and when we propose how the state should be owned, it is therefore – even if SV is not in the Committee – fully possible to make proposals as to how the state's ownership will be. For SV has not promoted any other proposals today, so I assume that they will vote in favour of the ownership message, they will vote in favour of the governance principles that lie here. So you agree with everything that is written, in everything that is said from the pulpit, and in everything that is adopted in voting today, but you fundamentally disagree with everything the other parties think – you should do this in a completely different way if you had only had time! So there's not a single proposal from SV here that you try to achieve the goals you preach, but you have to go a completely different way with state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1960	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1963	SV will come back with proposals on Norwegian ownership, including this case. It's not just once a year we can discuss this – it's not. Larger initiatives will come from SV, and which the representative is involved in, are of a different opinion than quite many in this room. It's quick about the vote, because that's what decides what we are for and against: we're in favour of proposal No. 1-9, we are against proposal No. 10, we're for I and XI, and we're opposite the rest. So then it's pronounced. And just in time: now I'm not the only one who has noticed that the representative Gundersen once again went to the pulpit and said 'eight years in government'. I came to think that if we had had a ping-pong party and had been busy every time, we would have been drivin' the whole crowd! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1972	The representative Else-May Botten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1975	I can confirm that I have only drunk water here in the hall today, and it was fresh and good. With regard to the big business message, it is important that we have the opportunity to give political signals about how we want companies to be governed. The government is going to make a recruitment strategy, and that's what we've wanted to get to grips with why there are so few ladies in top management. When you see big companies that have ten top managers, of which one lady, there is a need to do some grip. Why aren't there women at the top of those managements? That's what you have to start looking at first, before you can set goals, and before you can figure out how to achieve them – you can set goals, but how to achieve them, you have to figure out. That's what we're asking the government to do. It's also a little interesting to point out that the Right has been very concerned about getting women into management and boards, because it was Ansgar Gabrielsen who made the requirement of at least 40 pst. women of the ASA controllers. It was very good, but we have to do a job to get more ladies into the management.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1984	To Hegø: It was to the forest industry that I claimed that a total bomb had been bombed, and I want to hold on to it. I'm not going to go into it anymore. But to Knag Fylkesnes I must regrettably also remind you that you have been in government for eight years. [[Laughter]] So when the Fly train was classified by the red-green government, it was only business interests. I did not get an answer to that last round. Otherwise, the debate goes to the end, and I think it is important as the case rapporteur to stress once again that there is a very large consensus on the vast majority of things about state ownership. We have a professional and predictable state ownership. There is a strong consensus that private ownership is the cornerstone of Norwegian business, and that we need to strengthen private diversity of ownership. So, of course, there's a little bit of disagreement about what kind of instruments we're going to use. There's a lot of consensus, at least in the setting – if everyone understands what you've been on, I'm a little in doubt – about the governance principles, which I think are extremely important. I think one of the reasons why no government discount is being debated in Norway is that you know that the state is dealing with shareholders who are invited in state-owned companies, in a fine way, that you have full transparency about all decisions, and that the decisions go through general assembly to the boards. It is absolutely essential to have trust with other shareholders. There is also full agreement on the classification of the companies and that there should be a justification for why the country owns them. Then, of course, in the case of individual companies, we can disagree as to whether the justification is good enough. But what remains is that the government has been given almost full support to its announcement of ownership, and I think that is important. That you have such a large and broad consensus in Stortinget around at least the very central questions here, I note with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1993	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e1996	I have just a brief remark to make to Mr Gundersen, who claims that the Workers' Party was completely bombing its forest and wood industry. I have picked up something from a press conference: Minister of Industry Trond Giske, Minister of Agriculture Trygve Slagsvold Vedum and Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad are presenting an action package of 750 million. kr to the forest and wood industry. The date was 29 April 2013. The revised budget came in May, one month afterwards, and what happened four months after that? Then we had a big choice. And now we're about to start taking up the same technique, now that you've been in government for two years! And I'm still asking, what have you done with the 750 million? We weren't supposed to do that much, and if the 750 million were completely wrong, we would have done something about it, and so my question is, what has the government been doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2003	The representative Odd Omland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2006	It was the representative of Gundersen who made me take the floor. He said, "Where do you take it from?" – this one with scattered forest parcels. Yeah, someone's taking it from Prop. 11 S for 2010–2011 — it has been treated — and it is clearly stated that ‘spread forest parcels’ are to be used as a basis for this sale. Then, in dialogue with Statskog, maybe, it will be set a framework for this, and there we say that one has to relate to the scattered cadastral parcels. So Gundersen glorifies what the Right has done to speed up forestry. In the government platform they announced that they would reduce the profit tax on the sale of forest properties. This has not been done, which has resulted in the entire sale and activity around this with sales stopped, and one has not followed up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2013	The Left and Christian People's Party has received honor and praise from the Workers' Party and the Centre for the job we have done in this case and in this setting. We've thanked you for that. But we have also been told that we have put the brakes on. That's something I don't know about. The Left and Christian People's Party has done in this matter – as we do in all matters – is to pursue policy-making. We believe that the Fly train is an important element of the large-scale railway operation that we are going to have. That's why we want to keep it. It's policy design. We believe that in the case of the Kongsberg Group, it is important to be able to regulate who owns and controls the company if it becomes a sale, as the government wants. It's policy design. Then, through policy design, we give power to sell Telenor. This will give Telenor good strategic opportunities and more legs to stand on. It is also policy-making. We in the Christian People's Party and the Left are not afraid of knowledge. That is why we would like to welcome an investigation ordered from Statskog. We believe that knowledge is important when making important strategic choices. But for the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is absolutely essential that people's right to move in forests and land and good access to hunting and fishing rights should be ensured. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that underlines the importance of a strong attention to this with social responsibility. The implementation of both climate and environment, human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption shall be the main lines of State companies. It is an overall committee that underlines. So the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and today's government parties here on the Stortinget have driven by the political design of what we think is the state ownership and private ownership of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2027	I hope I'm within Parliamentary good manners and use when I allow myself to say that I think the representative Gundersen is using some big words when he says that we were bombing the whole forest. Yeah, did we? What has Gundersen changed on – to put that question back, a little rhetorical? Nothing. No, nothing has changed. But you haven't continued, you haven't reinforced it. When you talk about R & D, yes SKOG22, translate it into practice, try to make something out of it. We laid the foundation for that. Instead of worrying in a way that Investinor can't use the 500 million. kr we added it, so I said: Use them. Adjust on investment mandate of Investinor on forest. Translate them. There is no lack of projects. The advantage of what we did when we focused on forest was that it grew up a lot of ideas, but it's complicated to pull them out. And so far, the blue-blue haven't translated this into creative activity related to the new forest industry. They don't have it. Reductions in taxes on wealth have not contributed to more investment in the forest industry. It's a zero effect. But translate and get used and started and use the 500 million. kr located in Investinor. Raise new industry. Try to help those who are struggling, for the main point – the main wear – of those who are going to establish themselves in the forest industry, what is it? Yeah, they need money. It is difficult to find capital that will be involved and raise and enable the projects. It's the main dilemma. Do something about it, then, so maybe you can build a little bit more forest industry. So it's been taken up as a problem that from the Stortinget through the ownership message you say about climate and women. Of course it isn't. It's very positive that the Storting engages in those very questions. It's great if the Minister of Industry tackles the women's problem in the management of the big state companies – great. It follows a little bit in Gabrielsen's footsteps, which did something for women in business. That's good. We have to dry down to do it instead of saying that it violates the guiding principles. With regard to climate, the biggest challenge of our time, there should be no such thing as the state that owns and the Storting in a statement of ownership, making it clear about the climate. It is, of course, a matter of the fact that the Storting must provide the leadership for the government and the individual body of State responsible when they are going to attend the general meeting or when they are going to establish the framework for it. It's great, it's a great governance model we have in Norway around state ownership – it's excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2036	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2039	I record that case rapporteur Gundersen wants to collect the winner and create a picture of us all agreeing. I see clear political lines in this matter. But what I'm taking the floor for is – just to confirm the following to the case rapporteur, Gundersen: Yes, I think the opposition has understood its own policy, and I react a little to the fact that there are so many doubts from the case-rapporteur about whether the opposition actually understands the consequences of its own policy. I would also encourage the government parties to take a look at the approach that, for example, has taken place. The centre party has in the case of State Forest. We have a different approach than, for example, The working party. We say that we need to strengthen private ownership, carry out the ongoing arrondance sale, and then we need to assess it step by step before we move on, because we need to safeguard both the community's interests and private ownership – because that's a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2048	It is wonderful to be the case rapporteur, because then I can continue until no one has left speaking time. That's fine. To Terje Aasland: My point is that the Norwegian forest industry is the temperature meter on whether a competitive policy is pursued. There, a Norwegian commodity is processed through a Norwegian value chain and sold out to an international market without any customs barriers. That's when I said that the red-green government bombed completely. There was a halving of that industry under the red-greens, and then a cramping package of measures came in three to four months before the election, because you knew you had to do something. We have focused on competitiveness – I don't think anyone has brought it. We've done something about transportation. Who is it that doesn't know that all kinds of traffic is the first priority for almost all business? We've put the property tax down. Aasland said something about the lack of capital. Is the solution, then, to discriminate against local, Norwegian ownership? Is that a good, constructive way to raise capital? This is clearly the solution of the Workers' Party. We've focused on reducing property taxes. We believe that this is important in order to initiate industrial processes in the local environment, and that is what represents the Norwegian local environment, is Norwegian forest resource. I think it is present in almost all municipalities in the country, possibly with some exceptions in Finnmark. We've come with a tax reduction on biodiesel. There are quite a number of projects going on, but you don't start right now and invest in them. But it happens quite a lot. There's a considerable optimism out there, simply because we've put competitiveness in focus. So we've done a lot. In the case of recruitment, Aasland cannot escape the fact that this government in the ownership message is much clearer than any other government has been before it. I have to remind Knag County that it was actually eight years of red-green government before our time. You can't get out of it. You can start to analyse how it's going to be done, if Stortinget adopts a recruitment strategy, which I think is completely hopeless. When the government sends clear signals into the control rooms, they work with recruitment strategy. I'm sure of that. I don't think there is a professional Norwegian company that doesn't work with recruitment strategy almost every day. There we have clear expectations that there should also be representation from both sexes, and the best competence should be chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2059	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2062	I have to take a little walk into these guiding principles of the Workers' Party, because I think some of them are so well-defined that it's a pity they haven't taught them themselves. Respecting the distinctions between the State’s role as policy-makers, market regulators and regulators and the State’s role as owner is important to ensure legitimacy and to create confidence in the State as owner. That, in fact, is quite well said. That's a little bit of what we're discussing now, when you're going to drum up a demand for strategy from the Storting to the government. The principles are quite clear. It's in the boards of companies that strategies are being developed. That's what we've decided. It supports the Worker Party up again. The steering signals go from the Council of State of the General Assembly to the Boards. That's the sequence. So if that's what the representative of Aasland says, we don't know exactly what we're talking about, but we did something, say something, do something -- well, it shouldn't be called a government strategy. That's what the boards of companies produce, and that's what professional state ownership is all about. You clean up the roles and the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2069	Terje Aasland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2072	I'm going to finish now, because I don't have any more options. I'm not going to argue against Gundersen anymore, but just say that we're designing some tools. I think they're completely possible to use. The 500 million. kr transferred to Investinor is available for good projects related to the forest industry. So we know that it's hard to use them, because the projects aren't mature enough. I challenge the government to think through it, because I think we need to raise more immature forest projects just to lift the forest industry. So much has been done in terms of competitiveness, it is claimed. The main advantage we have right now is the crown price, if we could get up the forest industry so that it could export its goods. Unfortunately, we have little left now, and there has been no blooming during the blue-blue government either. But I think that together we should try to stimulate the Norwegian forest industry. Anyway, if Gundersen experienced the cramping, what we did, I think the argument against what we did is also cramping.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2083	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2097	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2104	Now a lot of air has gone out of the balloon. This proposal was adopted at the same time as the ownership notification, because management salaries are a topic that concerns a great many, and are also part of the ownership notification. And the government has promised to make a clarification about management pay at a suitable time. Two proposals are made in the document. One is to have maximum credit for management salaries and other benefits in state-owned companies, state enterprises and government. There, the Committee notes that public administration is not under the business committee, and we have not dealt with it specifically. That is why we have sent letters to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and they have provided a longer letter, which has been included in the vote. The second proposal is that the ceiling on allowances should not be higher than that applicable to the Prime Minister. Return to ownership message. So this is a responsibility of the governments. There are clear instructions from the government to be competitive on wages but not to be wage-leading. It has joined the whole committee as a principle. Then I would like to comment that the proposer writes in the document that great economic differences are poisoned for society. That's an interesting statement. An overall committee agrees that Norway can be proud that we have a society of equality, but it is regulated in very many ways through tax systems and also through what is generally accepted. But we have to accept that pay differentials have a basis in different roles in society. People are different, we have different levels of ambition, we have different views of what kind of responsibility, what kind of roles you're going to assume, and there will be some differences. In fact, some differences are important to stimulate the right decisions, the right people are involved in the right roles. So differences are good up to a certain level, so it could be harmful if they get too big, that I feel is a good summary of how the committee views this. Finally, I would like to make an observation, since it is SV who is the proposer. It is well-known that capitalism has the challenge of making some extremely rich, but I would remind you that socialism has the challenge of making everyone poor, and there is no doubt about which challenge is the best to tackle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2119	For the Workers' Party, it is important to build policy on the Norwegian social model, with a good social security network, relatively small wage differences and extensive cooperation with the social partners. This is the best basis for developing the framework conditions for the labour market and for employment. It provides flexibility for businesses to make transitions possible, while at the same time providing those affected by migration with a social safety network. The Norwegian model is characterised by dialogue between key actors in society and a predictable economic policy. Politically, as elsewhere, it is important to contribute to the cessation of undesirable leadership wage developments, where the difference between senior employees and the rest of the workforce is increasing. If moderation is expected from ordinary employees, it is absolutely necessary that the same responsibility applies to senior employees. When we were in government, we came up with guidance guidelines as a basis for governments to align themselves. The main line is that there should be competitive management salaries, but not remuneration, as the Advocate General said. One of the main elements of the remuneration shall be fixed basic remuneration. Furthermore, we have pointed out that the pension conditions for senior management should be in line with the terms of other employees in the company, the total remuneration should not exceed 66 pst. on the basis of the pension basis, termination benefits shall not be used for voluntary departure and the total remuneration should not exceed the fixed salary of 12 months. The Management Board has also begun to provide a statement of remuneration and other remuneration to the general meeting. The Labour Party believes that wage developments among senior employees of state-owned companies are an area in which the State that owns and wants to influence. The Workers' Party supports the intention of the proposal to limit management salaries and sees it as important that the work initiated by the government of Stoltenberg be continued. Then we record that the government has announced that one is now reviewing the current guidelines for management wages, and we expect the government's proposal to be presented to the Stortinget for treatment when it is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2132	This is not a new debate. Repeatedly, there has been a call for moderation in the determination of the senior remuneration of state-owned companies. Moderation is a good approach, and I support the government's goal that management wages in state-owned companies should not be paid. There is a widespread perception that wages motivate people to do more and do better, but extensive research has shown that the link between pay and performance is not that easy. Studies that have looked at the actual relationship between the salaries of managers and the performance of businesses show that there is little correlation between the level of remuneration of the senior executive and how companies do it. Several studies also show that there is actually a negative correlation between the amount of compensation and how the company does it. Increased pay may have a positive effect on the exercise of routine tasks where you have full control of the result yourself, but no one can define a top management position as boring or routine in terms of tasks. In such positions, internal motivation is required, and a lot of research indicates that the motivation is actually lower when the economic incentives are strengthened. Wages and salaries are not just wages and salaries. In addition to normal monthly transfers to the pay account to the senior executives, lucrative pension agreements and option agreements have become more and more common. Option agreements are sound, because they link them up to how the company operates, but the problem is that option agreements can lead to managers becoming near-sighted and making decisions that are essentially short-term gains, but in the long term present challenges for the companies they control. In the worst case, this may motivate leaders to take decisions that are in the frontier country or across the border in relation to ethical boundaries in order to maximise the benefits of the option agreement. We're not going back so many years until we had big, bad things about this in the United States and we saw the beginning of the financial crisis. In the context of the previous ownership notification, this was further reinforced in the guidelines for management salaries. This was done to ensure better achievement of the objective of contributing to moderation, reasonableness and transparency of the remuneration conditions of managers. At the same time, the development of management wages in state-owned companies has still not been in line with the objective of moderation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government will present its guidelines for management pay to the Stortinget. I see that as a good opportunity to find tools to ensure that wage fixing in state-owned companies can better meet the goal of moderation in the pay terms of managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2147	The Central Party considers that managers of State-owned companies must have a competitive and good salary, but not a payroll. - Yeah, what's in this now? It's hard to define. I believe that the legislation you have had, and the attention you have, has been such that wage developments have been lower than they would have been. But I also feel that there is quite a broad consensus that one might want to have more control over this, a more cautious development in management wages than one has. We have ventured from the Center Party to challenge some things. We have submitted to the ownership report that we believe that the salaries should not be performance- or profit-based. Is it now certain that this works, or is there something that you're adding out of old habit? A wish to have clear limits on which pension agreements can be concluded, a desire for transparency around wages and a great restraint in paying out final packages and setting limits on how large they should be. When the government is now working on its revised guidelines, I hope that one can dare put down some concrete things that you can relate to, some concrete driving rules. I also hope that the Council of State in its statement will say something about when these guidelines come. In the evening of 7 May, she hoped that the revised guidelines could be presented in the context of the presentation of the State budget ‘for the autumn’. It has now been adopted and entered into force. I'm not going to criticize it. I just want to know when we can wait to get these things out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2156	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his presentation of the matter and the Committee for its work. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank SV, who addresses this matter, this debate, about management salaries, among others. in state companies. It's more extensive, what's taken up from SV than just that. Let it be clear: the left does not want any thanks to executive salaries, as the proposers want, but we want to stick to today's main principles in the state's attitude to executive wages in companies where the state owns, i.e. that the management salaries should be competitive, but not pay-leading, and that moderation should be emphasised. Because we take these very points seriously, we have a joint remark with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. There we say that ‘an active state ownership can also contribute to limiting an abnormally high growth in management wages’. It should be noted that in the last year more and more attention has been paid to the salaries of state-owned companies, and that the reaction is particularly to the fact that managers of state-owned companies have had pay-leading wages. It has to be taken seriously, and we expect the government to show this the necessary attention when the government is about to go through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2165	This is a recurring event. I haven't had the pleasure of discussing this before in Stortinget, but a quick look at previous debates shows that this with leadership wages has been something you've discussed over and over and over again, and almost all the parties have said that this is serious – the leadership salaries shouldn't be the leader of this society, this is what we're taking seriously. It has a typeface in annotations that has no meaning. Then nothing has happened, and people have no confidence, no confidence that politicians can really control the paycheck that has actually happened in state-owned companies, corporations, etc. Thomas Piketty, the French economist, recently wrote the great work «Capital in the 21st Century». There is – very briefly summed up – a main commodity: the real return on invested capital has been greater in recent decades than the growth of the general economy. So one gets more by investing money in companies and places other than the general growth of society. Over time, differences in society will continue to increase. In Norway, we are more socialist than market liberalism – all parties, probably. But what is Norwegian success is that we have small differences, we have a compressed pay system. This allows workers and leaders to see each other in the eye, and it hasn't created elites who live completely different types of lives than others. One creates solidarity in the workplace and in society that we know – and that is well documented – creates good societies. This is about creating a culture, that culture has proven to be extremely efficient also economically. We are one of the most productive countries in the Western world. We have a society that works extremely well, even with small differences. It's a recipe for success. Then we have a blue-blue government that at each crossroads, whether it's property taxes, inheritance fees, and now the rent, does not raise a finger for anything but to increase these differences. It is contrary to the Norwegian model, it is contrary to Norwegian culture, to conduct such a project, which I am absolutely sure will increase the differences in Norwegian society at the time of the next survey. Does it say whether or not loyalty is in the hands of the leaders, or is it in the hands of the people? SV's proposal is not particularly radial. We're starting from the Prime Minister's basic salary. Then we put on the pension scheme, and then we've said plus plus, because there's also a number of benefits in kind associated with such an office. So we're going to add up to a sum of well over 2 million. kr in the maximum salary for the tenants of state-owned companies, enterprises, etc. It's not a low salary. There's no low income that creates that way. As mentioned earlier, there is no link between high pay and competent leaders. There is no link between high wages and companies that are doing well. But it's a context: when you're close to a honey pot, there's a tendency to allow yourself an extra amount. That's the culture we're proposing here that we take a specifier with. I found it positive that there are so many in this room that there are some in that this is a problem, and in comments it says that here one must come back with something. But I want to repeat: we've done this before; it's time to act. I have no faith that the blue-blue government will come back with something similar to this. If that happens, I will stay right at the placarding party with Gundersen – but I have little faith in that. So I would once again encourage representatives who think this is important, to reconsider whether they could perhaps support the SV's proposal, which will contribute to the Norwegian model, contribute to the Norwegian culture that has proven to be the great success it has been. I finally want to address the suggestions that SV has in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2180	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2183	The proposal that has been put forward is therefore about setting maximum limits on the level of directors' remuneration that do not exceed the Prime Minister's total remuneration, to managers of state-owned companies and to managers of public administrations. As the Industry Committee has been informed, I only answer for what falls within my responsibility, which is companies with State ownership – and I also record this as having been the basis of the Committee. The starting point must be that there is and should be attention to management wages in government-owned companies. The level of wages and salaries of the managers of these companies will have an impact not only on the individual company but also indirectly on society. As a result, since 2001, the State has had guidelines for the remuneration of directors of state-owned companies. The guidelines shall communicate the conditions to which the State that owns will place emphasis in its vote when the Board's guidelines on remuneration of directors are addressed at the general meetings or business meetings of the companies. The announcement of ownership warned that the main principles of the government's attitude to remuneration for management will be firm: the determination of remuneration to the Executive Director shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors, the remuneration of directors shall be competitive but not pay-leading, and the emphasis shall be on moderation. The principle that setting remuneration to the Executive Director is also the responsibility of the Board of Directors is also regulated by the Share Act and the General Share Act. I note that the majority of the Stortinget in the treatment of ownership notification still believes this should be one of the main principles of the state's attitude towards senior pay. So it's like the government's aim is to provide new guidelines for management wages in a very short time, and then we talk about weeks rather than months. These were last revised in 2011, and it is important that the government periodically review the guidelines to ensure that they are in line with developments. The proposal of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and Snorre Serigstad Valen effectively deprives the Governing Board and the Executive Director of the powers and responsibilities necessary to establish remuneration for senior executives. The proposal therefore violates the division of roles laid down in company law and the state principles of good ownership that the Stortinget has just joined in the process of the ownership notification. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus that state ownership should be exercised professionally and predictablely. Therefore, exercising the ownership of the State in line with company law principles and generally accepted principles of ownership and management is important. Stepping away from it will, in my opinion, damage the confidence of the public and investors in the State as a professional and predictable owner. It could again hurt our companies. I would also like to point out that the companies covered by the guidelines are very different, both in terms of size, industry and area of activity, domestic and foreign. What is a competitive remuneration level is different between companies. A thank-you similar to the Prime Minister's remuneration, which does not take account of these inequalities, could weaken the ability of companies to attract and maintain good leadership. For several companies, the proposal involves a substantial cut in management salaries, which may have significant consequences for the ability of companies to attract and maintain good managers. The central consideration of the country’s commercial ownership is the highest rate of return over time. In companies with sectoral policy objectives, the objectives of country ownership shall be achieved as effectively as possible. In order for the State that owns to achieve these objectives, it is essential that companies should also be able to attract and maintain good managers in the future. Therefore, remuneration for senior management should also be determined in the future in such a way as to be competitive, but not pay-leading, and in line with the country’s ownership-management principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2213	I think – as I hear it, and as I see it from the point of view of the matter – that we are reasonably in agreement on the development we have as an order, but it is tempting to ask the Council of State: What is the new thing that will come about in what is to be dealt with? What is it that you want to grips with what's going to come to Stortinget? Then I'm also concerned about when. It was also Pollestad inside his post, but I did not get a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2220	In a very short time – days, a week, we're now working on completing this – we're going to present this. So it's not like the Storting is going to treat this. We are dealing with this in the same way as the previous government did, namely that this is presented to the Storting for information. We've chosen a very thorough approach. That's why we've spent a little longer time than I might have thought last year. We have had a broad consultation in the companies, in the business organisations and in the employee organisations, and we have also had experience from other countries. We're looking at bonuses on long-term intensive schemes. We have announced a tightening of pensions in the message. We also warn of a narrowing to whom the guidelines should apply. Thus, it is no longer a follow-up or explanation principle attached to these guidelines, but a must-principle. We're taking all of these things into account, and we're saying, collectively, that we've found a tighter and better solution. But at the same time, the grips on the payroll are left to the governments to handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2229	I would like to raise a matter that has its origin in the fact that a Entra Director received 19 months' remuneration. It was mentioned last spring in the press, where it was found that the guidelines did not cover final packages that had not been agreed in advance, only final packages that had been agreed in advance – i.e. before the termination/disclosure was a fact. The Council of State then announced that she would look at this issue in connection with the revision of the guidelines. Then my question is whether this has been assessed – whether one can expect that the type of conditions will also be assessed in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2234	I think it's good to take the debate on what the guidelines contain when we publish them. Then we're going to have a broad and thorough debate on this. We have tried to evaluate all aspects of the guidelines in order to ensure that we achieve what we want, namely competitiveness linked to the moderation line, which we agree on. We are also subject to the rules of the Working Environment Act to resign, for example. a notice of termination enabling special agreements to be concluded. But all of this we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2243	I raised the question in such a way that, in case she had forgotten it, the Council of State would now have an opportunity in the request to see if this was dealt with in the guidelines, but I would ask in general: does the Council of State see that there is any reason to allow the guidelines to have different scope from whether a final package has been agreed in advance or first become part of a negotiation upon termination of a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2248	There might be reasons for that. Any employment is different, and any termination is different, so there may be different reasons. The different boards have to make different assessments, but we're going to have to come back to this when we publish the guidelines that we're not quite clear about, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2253	First, I just want to say that I am surprised at the contribution to the Council of State, because she said that this would lead to a cut for leaders today, but the proposal explicitly states that this will have no retroactive effect. This is for further negotiations in the future, so here the minister has not done his job of reading the proposal properly. Then the minister criticises the proposal because one wants to establish a ceiling for the accumulated income of leaders, and this will deprive the board of the possibility. But this is a roof, one can move within this roof, under the roof inside the house, as one will. With such a statement that one should not have access to it at all, I wonder: Does the Minister mean that there should not be any kind of roof over the revenues of the leaders of public and state-owned companies? Is it like that that one can tickle anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2260	I've been through the companies we're talking about in the message, the 55. Of the 55, 46 have salaries above the Prime Minister's total remuneration. This applies to a lot of state companies, and has done it over several years without mentioning the exact number, as the representative Gundersen tends to do. So then it's that given that someone would choose to quit in these companies on the basis of a heavily reduced salary, you'd have to go out and recruit on completely different pay terms than what we have today, and that was my point. As far as the roof is concerned, the ceiling is designed to be competitive but not pay-paying. It is different from company to company, from industry to industry domestic and foreign. That's the whole point of one roof not being right for all companies in the state portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2267	I interpret the minister so that it is relevant with thanks, and that there is nothing wrong with roofing in itself, the roof can be good to establish, but the question is just: Where? But it strikes me how much difference there is between these two posts, where in my post I took the starting point of the economic differences in society in general, and that this helps to increase the differences, and the Council of State's contribution was only technically based on the Governing Board's right to make its judgements. Does the Minister see that this is actually a form of taxpayers' money management – this is a public company owned by the Norwegian people – and that every payroll party in state enterprises is actually also a misuse of taxpayers' interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2274	For me, this is about politics, not about engineering. Therefore, a crown amount, a roof, is completely wrong. That ceiling must consist of principles for the design of the right salaries, and that's what I've been trying to explain. There isn't a crown amount that is equal to everyone, but there are some principles that we're going to apply and that we expect the board to follow up. So I'm busy that the boards are going to do this job. The boards know the company, who know the recruitment environment, who know what challenges they face and who can determine the level of pay based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2293	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2302	The path to the low-carbon society will be challenging, both for Norway and for other countries in the world. But the possibilities are also great. To achieve our global objectives in climate policy, we need to decouple economic growth from increases in greenhouse gas emissions, which the world has failed to achieve. But the awareness of how important it is has never been as big as it is now. Now we know that we have to act, we have no other options. Norway, with its rich access to renewable energy, has many opportunities to cope with the green shift. Where other countries in the world and Europe are striving to increase their renewable power generation, we are heading towards a formidable surplus of power. By 2020, through the joint electricity certification system with Sweden in Norway, 26.4 TWh new renewable power generation shall be developed. Therefore, in combination with increased energy efficiency improvements in several sectors, after each surplus of electricity will increase. We must use this force, both in Norway and in Europe. The issue we are discussing today is a proposal from the Christian People's Party on measures to create new green growth in Norway and a level playing field with Norway's neighbouring country for the establishment of green data centres. The concrete proposals concern reducing the electricity charge at a reduced rate applicable to industry, data centres with withdrawals above 5 MW, and looking at potential gains for the Norwegian public sector through consolidation of Norwegian public data centres. In an increasingly digitised world, there is no doubt that access to stable and secure digital infrastructure is becoming increasingly important. The need for several large data centres will increase in the future. In Europe, at least 60 new centres are expected to be needed by 2020. In Norway, there are already some large data centres, including the United Kingdom. in Rennesøy, Rjukan and Fet. I think there are good reasons why more such establishments should be established in Norway in the future. I feel that there is an overall committee that supports the wish that green data centres can become a new large green industry in Norway. In the debate on the low-carbon society and Norwegian climate policy, many people are talking about the need for more green jobs. The Committee considers that green data centres can be involved and create these new green jobs. In Denmark and Finland, action has already been taken to improve the conditions of competition for green data centres. Sweden is running a similar process. In Sweden, Facebook's decision to set up a new large data centre in the country is intended to provide value creation for 9 billion. Swedish krona. At the same time, it is estimated to create 4,500 new jobs. Norway, with its cool climate, many large mountain halls, good access to labour and skills, and not least large amounts of cheap renewable energy, can and should be an ideal place for setting up these data centres. On the basis of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left last autumn, a request was adopted to assess how the levy on electricity should be reduced in the light of the establishment of new energy intensive activities outside traditional industries, inter alia. data centres. The proposal shall be submitted in the context of the 2016 State Budget. The parties that were not part of the budgetary agreement support the proposals made in the draft representative we are discussing here today. It is therefore my clear impression that the intention to improve the conditions of competition for this industry is something that all the parties in Stortinget are behind. However, the Committee is not unanimous in its position on the Stortinge today. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left do not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party in this proposal for a representative, because the proposals taken up by the Christian People's Party seem to be a narrowing of the budgetary unity between the cooperation parties. It is the opinion of those parties that the government should be given the opportunity to make an overall assessment of how the electricity charge should be set up in order to strengthen the competitiveness of green data centres in Norway. These batches consider that the proposal to limit this to data centres with withdrawals above 5 MW is too specific and restrictive all the time the government has been asked to make an assessment of this and to promote a proposal in the context of the next year’s government budget. However, I am pleased that all the parties at Stortinget see the value of facilitating the establishment of several large green data centres in Norway. Here we have the opportunity to facilitate a new large green industry. That's an opportunity I think we have to seize. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2328	The green shift is in progress, and Norway is very well positioned with our renewable power generation. Near 100 pst. of our power generation is renewable, and we have, as the rapporteur had in mind, a surplus of power that – everything else given the same – will increase in the time that comes. For a country as rich in natural resources as ours, the eternal question is: how can we manage to create jobs and create values of our natural resources, how can this provide the basis for living in this country and living well? Some people like to talk about power exports, which can be one of the major sources of income for Norway in the future. We in the Workers' Party are for a power exchange where it is socially profitable. But first of all, we want to use the power available to us, to build new industries, to create new jobs and to create new value-added based on renewable energy, and not least to facilitate that the industry we have, which is based on the processing of power, gets a good competitive situation with competitors abroad who have to live at higher power prices and have to resort to fossil energy to fire up their machines, their ovens and their equipment. We also see new industrial production. Hydro on Karmøy is running a pilot project that will increase aluminium production by 70000 tonnes. It's a fantastic process that's been in this, it's a fantastic result we get. We also see the possibility of other new productions of the same type. Several industrial actors have been proposing the creation of new industries, which will provide jobs in places in the country that are absolutely in need of these jobs, and will provide for power and balance also in power markets. Data centres are something that has come in recent times. There might not be so many people who really reflect on how much power is being used on these data centers. Just a search on an average Internet search engine generates as much CO2 emissions as it generates if you cook a cup of tea in the United Kingdom, it is said in some reports. So it's clear that the energy use in cooling and operating these centers is formidable around the world. The power from 30 nuclear power stations is used for the data centres. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that there is broad consensus in the Committee on how good it is to establish data centres in Norway. It is then said by the government parties that the proposal we are now discussing, which is supported by the Workers' Party, is restrictive in relation to what has been adopted as a request. This request proposal has not been adopted in an agreement between the Government Parties and two opposition parties; it has been adopted unanimously in this process. That's what the Big Thing is about. However, the request decision asks the government to assess how the electricity charge should be reduced. You say'reduced rate' and you want an investigation of how this is going to happen. And then you want a suggestion. We believe that this objective is clear. Let's get such a proposal on the table, and let's get a case where we have a clearly defined limit on this and a clearly defined system on it, just like for other industries. If this proposal falls and we are left with the arguments of the government parties, I look forward to a proposal in the State budget that goes beyond this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2352	The proposal to facilitate the further establishment of green data centres here in Norway has absolutely something to do with it and is considered by several people to be new power processing. With a mainly clean, renewable energy based on hydropower and the prospect of entering a period of significant expansion, which by 2020 will lead to overproduction at then low energy prices, everything would facilitate such a powerful establishment. It is important that we facilitate the use of this renewable power domestically rather than being exported. Denmark and Finland have reclassified data centres over 5 MW to power-intensive industries, which means that they qualify for a reduced electricity charge. The reclassification has also been approved by the European Commission. Sweden is now doing the same thing. That means that we, who are also part of the Nordic power market, initially have opportunities to offer a level playing field, if we get accepted from ESA. Especially where Norway differentiates the fee geographically with a reduced rate of activity, especially in the north, we have such possibilities. Then we see in the letter from the Minister of Finance that there are several and different issues related to the proposal of the representatives of Syversen, Reten, Hämdal and Ropstad, which concludes that it is most appropriate to come back with this in budgetary terms. In view of the fact that the government should be able to make a greater assessment of how the tax on electricity can be reduced at a reduced rate, in view of the fact that a new energy-intensive business outside the traditional industry is being established, without limitation to data centres with an output of more than 5 MW. The big question is whether the 5 MW target is appropriate. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support the proposals made in the option, but refers to the budgetary agreement and the unity that emerged there, linking to energy-intensive re-establishment. The call decision is clearly taken seriously by the government, and I am looking forward to the Storting getting this into her.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2365	I want to start by thanking you for offensive posts from the different parties. This shows a collective will for something to happen. The question is really under the heading ‘Take advantage’, because we know that in the future there will be an enormous surplus of power, perhaps as much as 30–50 TWh already in 2020. The question is, what should we do with this force that we politicians have been busy creating through, for example: the green licence market? This can be one of the answers and help create green jobs. The alternative is that foreign tables can help send power to other countries and replace fossil energy there, and that may be good. But I think it is also important, as the rapporteur pointed out, that we continue the debate on how to create the green jobs in Norway. There will be many new green data centers. There will be a growing need for data storage. When one sees the development of various tools that have access to the Internet and that want to store data, one knows that the market is going to be enormous in the future. The North is a brilliant place for data centers. We are well suited, and the rapporteur was also involved. If you look at Norway’s advantage compared to other countries, it is that Norway has 100 pst. Pure force. It's important for the different companies that want to set up data centers, that they can advertise that it's 100 pst. Pure force – consumers are busy, they are doing actions to get Facebook to green data storage, etc. Of course, companies also take into account costs. When it might be 20-40 pst. lower energy costs in neighbouring countries, the choice of others is rapid. Facebook chose to establish itself in Sweden in a reduced tax zone – naturally, it can save a lot of costs. This is why we have been concerned that Norway must be competitive with our neighbouring countries. I see in the answer from the Ministry of Finance that one looks at lost wealth. This is so far true, and therefore the debate on the number of megawatts on which the threshold should lie may be relevant. If you think about the big fight about the big data centers, the point is to get the big data centers here, not necessarily to exempt those who are already here. The alternative to Norway not doing this is that one chooses the other countries. Then we're missing out on enormous value creation. The case rapporteur referred to the 9 billion. kr as a trace that Facebook will mean for Luleå the next ten years. In addition, the power could be sent out of the country without any income, and it would benefit others. Network rentals will be paid for e.g. Sweden on the same force, instead of Norway having it. I think it really is irrelevant to look at lost potential revenues in the future, because the option to lower the electricity charge and thus get the small electricity charge at the data centres is that the data centres are abroad. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is clear that something needs to be done. The fee structure is not up-to-date. Data storage is enormously powerful and should be treated in the same way as other powerful industries. When I read the committee position and listen to the submissions, I feel that we really agree on the matter. Some power-intensive industries are automatically exempted from electricity certificates. That means that if you read the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, I interpret it so that there are several things that should perhaps be included in the proposal that comes into the State budget. That is why I would ask the others who are behind the proposal that it should actually be turned into a transmission proposal. I do not see it as appropriate to have a proposal voted down when we initially agree on it. I'm asking the others to think about this. Finally, I would also like to mention another matter which is at least as important as lowering the electricity charge in order to make Norway competitive, and it is fibre, that we have the capacity to get the data into Norway. Several are aware that there is a debate going on around Statnett's cable for Germany, which has actually received a concession, and where one has dropped the fiber. In an operation of maybe 15 billion. kr in investment on the power cable itself it will pay for fiber in addition and take it in parallel, perhaps cost 150 million. kr or 1 pst. of the cost. Technically, it's completely possible to do this. I would therefore ask the Council of State to put an in-depth pressure on Statnet in order to also succeed in increasing fibre capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2384	Norway has a long history of power-intensive industry — production of aluminium and other powerful industries. This is a new and modern power-intensive industry for which it is important to facilitate, just as we have done and do for other powerful industries. This is district policy, it's environmental policy, it's industrial policy – together. Setting up green data centres will offer great opportunities in many district municipalities. Norway has the most needed: we have sea to cool, we have access to clean, environmentally friendly electricity, we have many facilities that are suitable, we have stable political conditions. We are a little weak about the framework conditions being the same as for other powerful industries. And to what the representative Ropstad was up to, full support for what has been said about the creation of fibre cables in connection with the plans that Statkraft has about new lines out of the country. The centre party supports the proposal that lies here, because we believe it is a societal proposal. We have, together with SV in the setting, underlined that this type of powerful industry, like other powerful industries, serves to be close to the production site, because there will not be any losses in the network when a product is transferred through fiber, but there will be a cost and an environmental loss by transporting electricity over long distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2393	The representative proposal that is being discussed today is two-way, and I was going to give a comment on both questions. I'll start with the first one. Several large data centres have been established in Norway in recent years. The storage services provided by these centres are directed at both Norwegian and international customers. Data storage requires cooling, resulting in significant power consumption for the largest installations. Cold climate reduces power consumption and can be a competitive advantage. The force price will also have an impact on location. With a common Nordic power market, there will be mainly differences in charges that may give different prices between countries. So far, of course, I agree with the premises on the question. The data centre is an example of the establishment of new energy intensive activities outside traditional industries. In this context, the size has asked the government to assess how the electricity charge should be reduced at a reduced rate and to submit a proposal in the 2016 State budget. Of course, the government is set to follow up. The main features of the electricity charging system have remained constant since 2004. Power intensive industrial processes are exempt from charge. Other industries, mining, district heating and petroleum facilities are subject to a reduced rate charge for the production process itself. Until recently, there has been a broad acceptance and little discussion around these limitations. When we look at possible changes in the boundaries, there are different considerations that need to be taken into account. We need to ensure generally good conditions of competition for business while avoiding barriers that may distort competition between large and small enterprises and between different industries and activities. These are demanding questions that we have to investigate before we can put them before the Storting. So to the second question of potential gains through consolidation of public data centres: we are constantly hearing claims about the number of data centres in the public sector, and what savings any consolidation could bring. At the same time, there is no good overview of the actual situation in this area today. The government wants to get an overview of the situation of data centres in the Norwegian public sector in the first place. Are there many small, publicly owned individual data centres, or are market-based solutions widely used? To what extent have public enterprises merged to establish common solutions for data centre operations, and to what extent do they have plans for cooperation with others — the deployment of operational services or the use of cloud services? The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has already launched a survey of this and it is expected to be completed before the summer. That being said, the government's starting point is that data centre policy should be neutral, both in terms of company size, technology choices and organisational solutions. I see that the members of the Committee from the Central Party and the Socialist Left want to provide guidance on where green data centres are to be located. But this too is an area where the government believes it is important with neutral politics. Giving government leadership or advantages, e.g. in the form of large contracts to some providers or through the construction of a large state data centre, could hinder market development and exaggerate purchases. Therefore, it is not necessarily appropriate to require state-owned enterprises to choose specific technologies or solutions for their ICT operations. It can also contribute to preventing continued innovation in this area. Norwegian public enterprises have an independent performance responsibility. This means that the activities are to choose the means by which the objectives are to be achieved and to ensure that the results required by the general ministry are delivered. There is no reason to expect anything other than that businesses will use large data centres and find cooperative solutions – a choice I believe falls within the freedom of action of businesses when it is the best solution. Finally, of course, we will come back with this in connection with the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2417	The part of the proposal that refers to the consolidation of public data centres is not about imposing any kind of imposition on public authorities. It is about looking at the potential gains that the Norwegian public sector can have in consolidating Norwegian public data centres. And when carrying out the review referred to by the Council of State, it must also be a short-lived affair to look at possible gains through consolidation, as we all want an efficient public sector. What I would like to use this line to get an explanation from the Council of State is the relation to the argument from the Government Parties and the Left, which says in their comments that they perceive that limiting to 5 MW is a restrictive proposal in relation to what is expected from the government review, and what is to be presented in the next budget. Can the Council of State confirm that it will go beyond the scope of this 5 MW restriction in the proposal for a representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2425	As I said in my post, I believe it is natural that we are investigating the limiting issues that are challenging in this. When we have all of those answers, it's also easier to give a complete summary of that in the feedback we give to the Stortinget in connection with the 2016 state budget. We record what the parties in Stortinget think about this and, of course, we want to take it into account in the work we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2430	So we cannot confirm that this assumption from parties which have a majority in this Chamber is necessarily correct, that if we adopt this proposal for a representative today, will it stand in the way of a better decision in the budget? I understand to that extent that what we will get in the state budget is the result of an assessment and not necessarily a proposal for a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2435	There is a request decision in this case, which the government has started to follow up. Then I record that there is now a proposal for a representative that – let's say – hastens a little more than the request decision. I have explained in my article what limitations problems we have to solve in this question, and I think it is premature for me to comment on it before we actually have the answers to all the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2440	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2445	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good debate, and it is very happy to hear all of these comments that at least confirm what I said in my first post, that the intentions here are agreed by all of us. We want to find ways to use the power we have in Norway, not only for exports, but also to create new jobs in Norway. But then I feel that I need to comment on the Workers' Party's articles a little and also some of what came out in the line exchange here. Does the Workers' Party not agree that it may be appropriate to have a more comprehensive assessment of how this should be organised? Does the Workers' Party feel fully confident that setting the 5 MW limit is the most appropriate? We know from the letter of reply from the Council of State and from her posts here in the Chamber today that our system is not exactly like the system that exists in other Nordic countries. It has not been given that the solution outlined in this particular proposal is that very, very best. Me and the Right fully agree with the intention, but we want the government to be able to make a greater assessment of how it is being set up, and feel that now in Stortinget to say that 5 MW is the ultimate limit to getting this done, is a little premature. I want a greater assessment of that. It may be that that limit should be set in another way, that it should be higher — who knows? But I think this is important, and that you need a proper review to get to what we all want, which is to facilitate the creation of green data centres in Norway and the creation of new jobs. So I'm meeting the government's proposal. I'm happy to see what's in it. It is not right to interpret the comments we write in this case, until we believe that it does not go far enough. I think we need to have a bigger assessment. That's also what's in those notes. Then I heard that this was a proposal from the Chair for a possible proposal for transmission, rather than the proposals that are now in the matter. It may need to be maintained, as I understand it, by the Christian People's Party, which is the proposer. And then we'll see what happens to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2458	I think it is brilliant that the Storting Group agrees that establishing new consumers of energy in Norway is important, because we are moving towards a significant surplus of power. But I think this matter becomes a little strange. Firstly, I think that the request that one agreed on in relation to the budget is great, and that one gets to know whether there are further activities that should receive the attention of green data centres in this proposal. I fully understand that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are going to do well and present it to the Stortinget in connection with the state budget for 2016. What is a little bit of the problem and a little bit of the challenge is, of course, that there are some types of investment in green data storage in Norway right now. The size is probably familiar with that. Therefore, I do not understand that it is not appropriate, on a principle basis, to adopt what is contained in the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which is a very good proposal, and which in no way limits the government's ability to investigate on the basis of the request decision of the budgetary procedure. On the contrary, one only confirms that one will have a reduced rate of 5 MW in relation to green data centres – most likely introduced from 1 January 2016. So that's really not a problem. The size has every opportunity to do that. And if the device or anything else was to make sure that one e.g. should have had a lower limit, I assume that the Minister of Finance is able to explain well to Stortinget in an excellent way. I don't think the Storting will object to that either. So I think it's important that the Storting gathers about this, and that's what's weird -- that the government parties don't participate in that principle decision now, so that one can, what to say, create security for those who are thinking of investing in green data centres in Norway, or those who will attract it in Norway. For there is a one-year loss in a time when the whole of Europe is fighting to attract that kind of investment. So has it been mentioned whether we should submit the proposal – why, really? There is already an investigation proposal there. But the important thing about the proposal is that one now says that one should have a reduced rate and change a little on the framework condition. We can agree to the transmission proposal, but then the Minister of Finance has to go up to Stortingen's pulpit and guarantee that she will present a matter in the state budget where green data centres get reduced electricity charges. Then we're going to be in on a transmission proposal, but I think this case is a little strange, and that the principles of what was previously adopted are now very far inside. The clock should say that the Storting went in and supported the proposal that the Christian People's Party has originally promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2471	In that case, the Council of State should do it quite quickly, for the matter is immediately debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2474	I'll give her some time to think about it. As I have experienced the government parties, in the comments and also in the debate, there is a clear intention that something will happen here. I cannot see that the proposal came – quite correctly in the budget negotiations – as a result of the fact that one did not want to go straight to what the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and others are in favour of today. Then you chose to go for an assessment. I think that's a lot of good arguments for it to come, as I was in my post. Then there's something more than just reducing the electricity charge that's important. That is why I welcome that assessment. Christian People's Party and I were busy making the proposal for a transmission proposal, and to answer the representative Aasland: A little bit of my point, which he was having, is that there are many discussions right now about investment decisions. Therefore, I find it unfortunate that the Storting chooses to vote against the proposal. I think it's a bad signal. When it is such that the government parties are so clear that something will be included in the budget, I think one could get a confirmation that there are proposals there, and then we might as well send it. I think that the parties voting on the proposal today, if that is the case, send out an unfortunate signal that it is not so urgent, it is not so important, we are uncertain about the resolution. As I was in my post, this is not just a decision as to whether to reduce any proceeds or not. This is about whether we should facilitate the addition of the large data centres to Norway. They have had this debate in Finland and Denmark. That's where they've done it, and they've chosen 5 MW. The same debate is now in Sweden. It was probably the social democrats who promoted the proposal when they were in opposition, and the Riksdag will take that discussion. That is why we are pleased that there will be an assessment in the State budget, but I should like to see the Minister of Finance say something about whether a wish for something more than just an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2487	The President will then ask the representative whether it is such that he has made a concrete proposal that the proposal should be transformed into a transmission proposal, that it be transmitted without any substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2490	As I see the Workers' Party, they are not interested in it, as long as no guarantees or signals have come from the Council of State. Although we are the proposers, we are many on the proposal, and that is why I cannot do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2495	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2509	The President will draw attention to the fact that the matter has not been sent to the Committee. The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2518	This is not a proposal for or against snowmobiles. That debate should take place in the context of the new Motor Traffic Act under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. These are seven municipalities which have participated for more than 10 years in a test project on snowmobile driving in their own loop. These municipalities were told that a new law would come before the winter season, and if not so, they would be allowed to continue their status as test municipalities until a new law was adopted. As has now been reasonably explained, a new law will not be passed until this season is over. What is also clear is that for approx. a week ago, the same municipalities received a letter from the Ministry stating that the Ministry did not have a legal basis to continue the experiment. This put these municipalities in a very difficult situation. The background is that now all those to use snowmobiles must apply for a derogation from today's law on motor travel in the field. Since an application for a derogation from the law is to be regarded as a single decision, one cannot merge several applications in a joint examination. The feedback I have received from several of these municipalities is that they have no way of handling the applications that are now coming in, until the snow has melted. Then, as most people understand, it has no intention of dealing with these applications. In many of these municipalities, multi-employers have been built based on the pilot project and are waiting for clarification. I think we owe them an opportunity to expedite the season, so we'll have to discuss the bill that's in the committee, decide whether these can continue until next year, or whether they have to go through a transition phase. At least they have no opportunity to change in the short time that is now, which leads to the loss of the entire season. I hope that the Storting is willing to solve the crowd in which these municipalities have arrived, by adopting this proposal. I would like to point out that this is a law that ceases to exist from 1 June 2015. If the proposal is adopted, which, of course, I hope, I will ask the Council of State to ensure that the regulations that are needed to implement this are immediately made clear, and that it is notified to the municipalities that this has now been done, when the formality is in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2529	For the Workers' Party's part, it is not necessary to enter into the substance of this matter. We support the proposal and consider it appropriate that the municipalities that have had the pilot scheme be allowed to pass it on during this season. So we're taking the policy of the matter that the Committee is already dealing with, in terms of motor travel in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2534	As mentioned earlier, there are these seven municipalities that are left in the scheme, and the Christian People's Party believes that it should be able to continue to be, and run scooters within the scheme until the law is passed. It is artificial that we stop the system now when the proposal on motor travel in the field is being discussed in the committee, and we also need to have a hearing next week. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2539	I would also like to confirm, on the part of the Central Party, that we believe that the continuation of the system while dealing with the Storting of a major issue in which the realities will be discussed is a sensible proposal that the Central Party will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2544	I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the representatives Svendsen, Grimstad and Henriksen are promoting this proposal. The proposal allows the former experimental municipalities of Vinje, Sirdal, Stor-Elvdal, Lom, Røros, Hattfjelldal and Fauske to use their snowmobile loops this winter season, pending the examination by the Storting of the proposal for amendments to the law on motor travel in the outland and watercourses, as the government presented on 28 November 2014. These municipalities had earlier opportunity to establish snowmobile loops through their participation in a local motor vehicle traffic management experiment, which was launched in the early 2000s. The experiment was completed in connection with the launch of a new test involving several municipalities. Following an overall assessment, this new experiment was completed in June 2014. The seven municipalities that were involved in the original experiment were then lost their permission to use their established snowmobile loops. Following the termination of the experiment in June 2014, the government started an intensive work on a new bill that would allow all the municipalities of the country to set snowmobile runs for pleasure driving. The work included: replies to the Stortinget’s request decision of 19 June 2014, in which the Stortinget asked the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for amendment of the Law on Motor Traffic in Lands and Waterways, which ensures local administration within clear national guidelines contained in the Act. The legislative proposal was presented on 28 November 2014. Following the submission of the legislative proposal, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as indicated in the draft representative, has assessed the possibility of providing a temporary regulation on the use of snowmobile loops in the seven original test municipalities. Good, practical reasons spoke for such a solution. I show you, among other things: that if the pilot scheme for the seven municipalities had not been terminated in connection with the introduction of the extended pilot scheme, the scheme could be allowed to continue under the Test Act § 3, third paragraph, third sentence. The provision lays down: ‘If reforms are planned or decided in accordance with the test, the experimental period may be extended until the reform enters into force’. However, such extension may not be decided upon once the original test has been completed. The considerations behind the provision nevertheless prevailed in this case. No matter how many reasons there are, however, a temporary regulation requires law enforcement. After a thorough evaluation, my department found out that there is very much doubt about the law of motor travel in the fields and watercourses providing sufficient authority to allow for pure pleasure driving, as is the case in the municipalities concerned. We did not want to risk a crime and therefore decided not to lay down such a regulation. I was sorry for the inconvenience this would bring to the municipalities concerned. In the light of the history of this case, where the Department, among others, I was charged with a criminal offence as a result of the now discontinued trial under the law of public administration, but I believe that it was right not to extend the law further than we were absolutely sure that it was the basis for. I am therefore pleased that a Stortinget has now found a solution that provides the home that is missing in today's legislation in order to establish a temporary scheme for the use of snowmobile loops in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2564	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2571	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2875	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2885	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2895	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 2-9, by Else-May Botten, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 10, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party The President noted that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, is withdrawn. Proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to voting. Since SV is not in the Committee, the President has been asked to say that they will vote against the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals on how the sales revenue from State sales can contribute to further value creation in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e2921	Proposals Nos. 2-9, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the process of privatising Statskog SF and to withdraw its investigative mission towards Statskog SF.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The flight train AS and Baneservice AS shall be moved from category 1 to category 3’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the Government to sue the Storting for any changes to the guidelines on the remuneration of directors in the State companies.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget on recruitment strategy for women in the management of state-owned companies.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue a new State ownership instrument.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a survey of the state’s exposure to climate-related risks through state ownership.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify whether the companies in which the country owns or is a partner are industry leaders in the environment and climate.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the regulations and laws of other countries in order to ensure control of the ownership of companies of particular importance and to promote this in the case of the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3003	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3024	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3044	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 81 votes were cast in favour and 9 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3051	It was not registered that I voted in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3056	There's more? Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3083	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3131	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose maximum ceilings for executive and other benefits in state-owned companies, state enterprises and government.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose that the ceiling on remuneration, any supplements and pensions should not be higher than those applicable to the Prime Minister at all times.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3182	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3214	The representative has not been in committee for a few days. The representative's proposal is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Treatment of temporary law amending Law No 10 June 1977 82 on motor travel in fields and watercourses
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3262	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3272	The following proposals shall be put to the vote: «Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Kenneth Svendsen, Oskar J. Grimstad and Odd Henriksen on changes to the law on motor travel in outland and watercourses. Temporary provision on snowmobile loops in former experimental municipalities – annexed to the Protocol.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-05.ana.ud2041e3293	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
