ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e86	The called representative of the Finnmark County, Ingelill Olsen, is now taking the seat. The President will refer to letters from the Prime Minister's office that were referred to at the end of yesterday's meeting. The changes in the government have resulted in the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The following alternates of the South Trøndelag County take the seat of representatives at the time Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Per Sandberg are members of the government: Torhild Aarbergsbotten and Lill Harriet Sandaune. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e110	I have the pleasure of promoting, on behalf of the big business representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, a proposal for amendments to the Constitution – the foundation law of the Allemannsrecht.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e115	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e120	On behalf of Hadia Tajik, Dag Terje Andersen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Rigmor Aasrud and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the need for a stronger protection of alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e125	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e128	On behalf of the big business representatives Kjersti Toppe, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I will present proposals for amending the law on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e133	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e136	I would like to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of Mr Heidi Greni and myself to ensure rehabilitation and physical training in hospitals. Then I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the deposit representatives Per Olaf Lundtigen and myself to have Tinn municipality take over Rjukan Hospital free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e144	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e147	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Mr Karin Andersen, Mr André N. Skkelstad and myself to maintain strict environmental requirements for heating in new building regulations, TEK 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e152	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting is going beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e168	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e182	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e196	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e210	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e224	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e235	I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mr Hauglie on his work as new Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I welcome her to the Stortinget – right to a budget debate in which the government promotes a budget for work, activity and conversion. The timing is challenging for a new state council, and I think that is why today is going to be useful. Norway is a very good country to live in. 95 pst. are working, and the job of creating new jobs is very important for this government. We have an increasing vacancy, we can pass 5 pst. in 2016. It's challenging. This is why the government is promoting a number of measures. I've been in a number of Nav offices for the past few weeks and months. There they tell me about the statistics, that there are many people who have been registered as unemployed, and they have been registered as perms, but the vast majority – as a good news – have returned to work before three months have passed, i.e. under 100 days of leave for half of those who become unemployed. It testifies to a working life and enterprises that absorb labour. It shows that you're in a transition. For me, it's also interesting to see that the two-part thing we've been talking about for years, now has turned around. There is still a two-way street, but now it is in the West, in the South and in the coastal regions that unemployment is high and increasing, while in the interior, in other counties and in northern Norway it is reduced. The curtain is that it came all the more joyous news last week. Statoil included the extended distribution of contracts of 24 billion. kr to Norwegian holdings. The government presented part of the maritime strategy. When I was at a meeting with Haugesund Shipowners' Association last week, I was given the opportunity to testify that eleven ships were flying home, six from Arriva in Windfjord and five from Hagland in Haugesund. Everyone undertook to increase the number of apprentices on board ships. As of 1 January, we will have the full effect of a number of other issues not only with regard to the budget, namely a new work environment law for which this government has been given a majority in the Stortinget. We have a whole bunch of new Nav measures starting on 1 January. We have achieved this through good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget. It makes it more seamless, less bureaucratic and easier to take advantage of different types of action as needs change while action is being taken. This government has a great commitment on its way, trains and transport policy. It generates many jobs, not only in new road companies, but also for people who build, project and plan. In order to make the transition and create new jobs, education and research are incredibly important. It will not have the immediate effects on Norwegian business, but it will have effects that will help us both in the green shift and in the transition that Norway needs and is facing. What immediately has an effect is what the government is doing to reduce corporate taxation, which means that companies receive less tax in 2016 than in 2015. There will also be a slight decline in the wealth tax. We're doing the green shift. At the same time, this Committee, the current Council of State and the Grand Duchy as a whole in 2016 will face a huge challenge when thousands of new refugees are actually going to be in Norway and are not being sent out. They're going to learn Norwegian, they're going into an introduction program, and they're going into work. I believe that the management companies will be an important partner in order to achieve this. It is necessary to integrate into the labour market. The job of creating new jobs is the most important thing this government is currently doing. That is why we are promoting a budget for work, activity and conversion. We have a good permitting system, we've strengthened company internal training, we've strengthened Nav, and we're getting a huge employment effect from the refugee flow that's now coming to Norway. I am satisfied with the budget and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e264	Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In the vote, the majority parties are constantly expressing both joy and satisfaction with the budget. My question to the representative Kambe is: On a scale from one to ten, how pleased he is with the cut of 2 billion. For the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e271	It's not a cut in this year's budget of 2 billion. for the unemployed. In fact, in 2016, the funds for day money have increased by several billion dollars. We work to reduce the impact of unemployment. That is why we are strengthening Nav, and that is why we are adopting new laws and increasing the number of action places. We have said that we think it is important to give priority to those in the day-to-day arrangements. Last year we therefore reduced the holiday pay scheme, precisely because we are going to spend the daily allowance on those who are unemployed, not on those who have obtained a job and received money via the daily allowance the following year. We give priority to those who have challenges today, not those with challenges that have been solved. For us, we also have a tightening up now: if you give up your position today, we think it's okay that one, in today's labour market, has to wait a bit longer before a get a day's pay if one has made the choice himself, but if one is forced to do so, or there's a bad mood in the company, one will still have to keep them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e280	The characteristic feature of the post of the committee chairman was that there was no analysis behind the frightening development of increasing unemployment. In order for us to put in place the necessary measures, there must be an analysis of the cause and effect and a whole, and that is missing from the start of the committee chairman. What the Chairman of the Committee so far came up with was new jobs. The Centre Party is entirely in agreement. We had proposals here this week on investments related to renewable natural resources. In this context, the representative Kambe also referred to the concept of ‘green shift’. Since the representative used that word, I would now like to have a definition from the Right on what is meant by green shifts completely concrete, so that it does not just become a honorary word without content, as we have experienced so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e287	The macro-image of the vacancy should also be known by the representative of Lundtigen. It is part of the essentials of the government's budgetary documents. That's the dollar rate, that's the oil price, there's huge fluctuations in the worldview. It goes too far in the Norwegian economy, in the oil and gas industry, etc. It has major economic and direct consequences in Norway. It is the backbone that the government is promoting a budget for work, activity and change – to do what we can to counteract it and to help those who get out of work. The green shift is simple, for example. strengthening the maritime industry, shipping, the few goods from road to sea. It's e.g. the government’s large investment in the climate technology fund, which in 2016 and 2017 is likely to start well by over 1.5 billion. kr in State aid, via Enova, to Norwegian Hydro on Karmøy. It is going to be a good example of getting new industrial workplaces that both develop environmentally friendly technology and that can be premissive to Norwegian industry for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e294	This government has excelled in being unimaginably harsh towards people with great wealth and high incomes. But at the other end of the scale, if you're so unlucky to be lazy and unable to work, and in addition are responsible for children, the government has now celebrated Christmas and good new year to these families with a powerful cut in the children's supplement. So those with the lowest misdemeanors can now lose many, many thousand dollars a year. It is a very targeted measure to hit people who are sick, unable to work and have children in addition — where child poverty will not only increase to an extent but also increase in the way it works. Can the representative explain how this can be fair or part of the line of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e299	After eight red-green years, the number of poor children increased in Norway, under the guard of Karin Andersen. This government has done something about it. The root of poverty is being out of work. It's outside of Norwegian language. It's the main indicators. And to simplify the children's supplement, it's like, among those that we're reducing it to 95 pst. of the share for which, for some in total, there could be more money in public transfers than it would have been in the job. It's a break with the line of work we're betting on. When it is said that if you have children – most of them in Norway today have their children in kindergarten – everyone who is ill-satisfied, everyone who has a low wage, will now have a much lower childhood bill than they had under the red-green. This is also strengthened in this budget: free core time is extended to three-year-olds, and it compensates more than enough for the cut in the child supplement. It also helps you to get a job and education that someone takes care of your children while you are at work or under education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e308	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e312	It's going to be a very special budget debate this time, as we heard yesterday that we were going to get a visit from a new government council. I start by congratulating Hauglie on his appointment and welcoming you to Stortinget. I would also like to invite broad political cooperation in some of the areas for which the Council of State has now been responsible. In areas such as our most important welfare institution, Nav – how it works, how it works, how it operates, and how it operates technically for ICT equipment, for that matter – and pensions, where there are major tasks in the future related to public service pensions, but also to private occupational retirement provision and the relationship between public and private occupational pensions, it will be important to make wide-ranging policy solutions. With regard to both of these areas, there is one thing I would like to start by saying: the Council of State should re-establish cooperation with the social partners. Some have suggested cutting the LO wing, but what they have been harmed for is destroying the cooperation with the UN, with the YS, with the NHO, with Specter and with the KS on the employee's side in seeking a confrontational line. The working time committee and its follow-up — soon to be presented and followed up — will be a golden opportunity to re-establish that cooperation. Unemployment, which is a major issue of our time, is another example where using the knowledge of the social partners is incredibly important. When the predecessors of the Council of State took over, he took over Europe’s lowest unemployment rate. Now we have a higher unemployment rate than 20 years — 127 000 — and it is increasing, while in other countries, such as Germany and the United States, it is now actually falling below our unemployment rate. Germany has already done so, and a country like Sweden does so, with targeted efforts that gradually push unemployment downwards. There's a lot to get from working with the parties. We saw this in the solidarity option in the 1990s, where the social partners really took responsibility with the authorities for putting full employment first, and pushed unemployment down. And we saw it during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, where we worked closely with business all over the country – employers and workers found tools that they knew were going to work in their businesses – and in that way managed to get through the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. It was a lot thanks to good cooperation between the parties. The parties have already started well. In the year’s settlement, they made a very responsible salary settlement. But now the government must also start taking that situation seriously. A package of measures was presented in the context of the State budget, but it has been significantly cut in the Stortinget. There has been a lot of discussion here about what is really left of the action package. We react when, for example. instead of good job-promoting measures, money is allocated to swimming lessons in kindergarten, lot support, of 10 million. kr, animal police in Rogaland and the music line at Steinerskolan. There are no temporary measures to increase employment. That's good purpose, yes, but no action package. Our option is to invest much more in bioeconomy, in forestry, in tree-based innovation, in tourism, in environmental technologies – 633 million. Let's go into business policy. In addition, we're betting on broadband, 700 million. kr for public transport in cities, increased investment in railways, electrification of ferries, etc. Targeted measures underline our awareness that the most important labour market policy is a good industrial policy. It also helps with increased awareness spending, 3000 more places to study, 1000 more places to study and more grants to apprentices. Then, in our area too, we have put up an overall commitment to the unemployment of the budget under discussion today. We propose 1 000 more sites for action and 1 000 more sites for those with special needs as well. Not least, in line with what we have been asked by the business community affected by the low economic cycle due to the oil price, we propose to strengthen the permeability regulation, as we have previously done against cyclical measures, with 52 weeks of leave, 40 pst. as a basis for receiving daily allowance during leave and five days’ pay for employers. In addition, the proposal now proposes to strengthen intra-corporate training so that it can be used as a business cycle tool. Then I would like to stress that we are proposing more money for permanent work. I'll give the council a good tip if she wants to be in a good mood one day: visit a protected company! Look at the joy, the joy and the professional joy you experience in a sheltered enterprise, and how much that means to those who have too few places at our disposal! It must not become municipal, because then the obligation is not there in the same way. And not least, then it's no longer a labour market measure. It's so incredibly important to the people we're talking about here. We're going to vote against point III(2) because we don't want the Council of State to take the money from that area and pass it on to others. Social dumping is a major problem in our society. It undermines serious working life. The Working Environment Act is weakened under this government. We recommend reintroducing collective redress, which is an instrument for taking some of the bitches. We recommend reintroducing the rule that those who are temporary agents should be treated in a non-discriminatory way in terms of pay – non-discrimination under the agency directive. And then we suggest strengthening the Labour Inspectorate by 20 million. kr, and we propose to strengthen regional protection agencies because we know there is a system that works against social dumping. We know that the tripartite industry program does the same thing, and that the kind of programs where the authorities and the parties work together are one of the most effective to reveal the trick that is happening in society today. So a line that has been clear in government's policy up until now, and that's a distribution profile. In the case of retirement, we have chosen to strengthen the minimum pensioners. They're the ones who need it the most. We've also strengthened the minimum performance for disabled people and others who live on minimum benefits. But not least – not in our budget, but for those who need housing in our sector – we strongly strengthen housing support, and of course we are opposed to the government's proposal for cuts in additional social benefits. The government's answer is to provide considerable tax relief, but it provides tax incentives for some – driving compensation, for example, for those who have to use their car in their work, the commuter deduction, which is a cost for the acquisition of income for ordinary people, and which some people believe is only for driving, but it does not, as far as all commuting is concerned, and not least the termination scheme in our area, that one has to take money from those who receive a termination benefit as part of a conversion process. So far, there has been a clear profile in the budgets that we have dealt with, and what we are dealing with now is that the unemployed should be taken – almost 2 billion. kr annually they have to pay off the pot in order to finance the tax reliefs to people who have a lot from before, to cut the holiday money, to have less security of pay after bankruptcy and now with the quarantine in connection with cancelling their job. It gives us a clear profile that we strongly disagree with, including business policy. For the OECD, it has been demonstrated in its reports that greater differences lead to less productivity, while smaller differences promote productivity. I hope that changing the Council of State means that the Prime Minister sees that the government's profile in the areas for which we are dealing with the budget today is a burden on the government. This government has experienced a general strike from at least the vast majority of employee organisations. Until now, there has been deliberate provocation rather than cooperation, confrontation rather than dialogue. I hope the Council of State change is a signal for a new course. With that, I take up the suggestions Worker Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e342	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e347	It was an interesting contribution from the representative on challenges facing several parts of the labour market. It is an important issue, especially now, with increasing unemployment, but at the same time we are dealing with more than just the labour market today. We're not least dealing with how we're going to prove to those who actually built our country. The government, and now the majority of the population, are ready to reduce the social shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party does not choose to mention it, but they choose to vote against it and thus give Norwegian married and cohabiting pensioners NOK 8 000 less. Former Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland said from the Stockholm pulpit in 1997 that proposing increased minimum pensions was «disadvantaged». Is this a statement that the Workers' Party is still standing by?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e354	It's at best a distortion, but there's evidence that we've been behind increases in the minimum pension several times. And then it's the quote that the representative distorts, from far back in time. We are to increase the minimum pensions and have done it several times, but we've had the minimum pensions in focus. As far as the abbreviation is concerned, we are in line with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left – yes, all other parties in the Stortinget, really. And I'm recording that the Progress Party has had an impact on 5 pst. reduction in spite of their promised full removal. But there it is for us so that we stick to Ivar Aasen, who says: ‘I think it’s best to help someone who needs it the most’. Therefore, rather than cutting the curtailment, we want to raise the minimum pensions. We're also doing it for those who have the minimum performance for failure. We're increasing housing costs, because it's really targeted at those who live on pensions or other government benefits, and who have a bad economy. So we have a different profile -- we strengthen the weak a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e366	The representative Andersen and the Labour Party have the money to strengthen both the one and the other. What he forgets to say is that the Labour Party has a large gap on the income side of its budget of several billions, which means that it would hardly have money for any of the representatives named Andersen next year. But we're going to lay it down. I have another question. In the last year's budget, as a debt for this year, the Co-operation Party implemented a strengthening of the self-employed care scheme. The Labour Party went against it. I don't see they cut it in their budget this year, so that means one goes in the right direction. It's positive. That being said, I also do not see that the Labour Party goes further when it comes to strengthening social rights for self-employed people, such as the debt of sick pay, or the debt related to pension savings. My question is: does the Labour Party, as their budget suggests, mean that self-employed people have good enough social dishes today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e377	No, I think it's one of the areas that we need to discuss in the whole welfare system – and to the extent that the pension system – in the future. However, today there are schemes that allow self-employed people to pay and receive the same benefits. I believe that in the future – because it is becoming more and more common to run individual enterprises and small businesses, and that is what we need to have a modern policy to meet – they also have to pay in that context, as is the case today between an employer and an employee, where the employer pays in their share and the employee pays in their share. But if we are able to find solutions that fund on equivalent terms, we are involved in discussing solutions for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e382	I expect the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, to agree that the unemployment we experience today and now is different from that we experienced during the financial crisis. Then there was a fall in employment across the country. Now it's Western and the municipalities with the oil-related industries that's hit. So we don't feel that the whole country is hit by unemployment. Why, then, did the Workers' Party – and have spent a lot of time on it – propose the same medicine as they had during the financial crisis, namely to strengthen the legislation on leave from 30 weeks to 52 weeks, when we know that among the lay-offs, there are many averages in jobs after three months?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e389	When we propose the instrument that we know will work, it is because it is precisely the companies concerned that are now affected by the unemployment that is slightly different because it is more specific in industry and geographically, which have asked for changes in the law on leave. So it's to meet them the representative points out. We're listening to business. In addition, it is clear that when we, for example: suggests more money to electrify ferries – just to take it as a concrete example – it is using the economy to stimulate activity right into the labour market that is struggling. But giving money for music education, for Steinerskolan, hits the labour market worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e399	I would also like to begin by congratulating the newly appointed Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Hauglie. I look forward to good cooperation. The councils have good shots from their time as councillors, so this should be exciting, constructive and good. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of State – Robert Eriksson – who has made a formidable effort through its two years as the Council of State. He has left several important changes in Norwegian labour and social policy that will last for many years. One of the last things he did was to present the budget in the field of employment and social affairs. It is a good budget that is adapted to the situation facing it. It is no secret that the country is facing a demanding time. We have increasing unemployment, low and halved oil prices, too much immigration, and we have too many people out of work. Then it's important that we adjust the tools we have in order to be able to counteract many of the economic cycles we see. Let me start a little bit with Nav, as the government is already strengthening, renewing and simplifying. It's no secret that Nav evolved into a square and rigid system, where it was thought that anyone inside the Nav system could fit into a template. The progress party has always been clear that no human being is equal, every individual must receive help and support according to the assumptions and needs they have. I am pleased that we now have a government that wants to change Nav, from a red tape reform to a user-oriented body where the user will be in focus – and not the systems. We're going to get more on that this spring, and that's something I'm looking forward to. When talking about working life, you can talk about short-term measures and short-term solutions. It is also important, but the most important thing is how we can secure and maintain the jobs we already have today and how we can create more jobs. What we have to take over is that the working life has changed. That is why I am happy that we have changed the Working Environment Act. We had a work environment law that was adapted to the work and family life you had in the early 1970s. Now we have a work environment law that is more adapted to 2015, where we have new family forms, where people may want to work more in periods in exchange for working less in other periods, where we have a work environment law that facilitates entrepreneurs and start-ups. It's important. That is why I am pleased that the government also contributes to making the door wider and wider into working life, because this is not how all people automatically fit to work in an 8 to 4 job, Monday to Friday. We have to have a working life that has room for more people. Whether there are people with different diseases or other challenges, we need to have a work life that suits them. But when we also need to secure jobs and create new ones, it is more than just a hub and work environment law. It's also about what framework conditions we give business. One thing is to make sure that business keeps more of the money they actually make themselves. That's why I'm glad we have a government that has given significant tax relief to businesses and to people most. I don't think the solution is to raise the taxes on working life and the population by over 18 billion. kr. I think that's the wrong medicine in the situation it's facing right now. Another thing that has been important to the government, which we carry on in this budget, is to simplify and reduce the bureaucracy of businesses, make it easier for businesses actually to create values. It helps to secure jobs and facilitate the creation of new ones. Now that we've got time on the road, track and public transport, it makes it easier for workers to get to and from work, even jobs that are a little further away. It makes it easier for business to get their goods transported. It is also an important measure to reduce unemployment. Under the red-green government, we had growing hospital cows. There were many people waiting for surgery, and in the time they had to wait, they were unemployed. Then I'm glad that we now have a government that pays attention to health, that takes all good powers into use, and helps reduce the health cows, so that more people, instead of being at home with pain and waiting for an operation, can now get into work. It helps to reduce unemployment and secure jobs. But as I was in my line-up with Andersen, it is important that we do not forget those who actually built our country. We all owe a great deal of thanks to those who for many years have stood on and contributed to Norway being the welfare society it is today, and to the fact that the large, large majority of the inhabitants of Norway are as good as we have. Some later to believe that it is the politicians who have built the country, but the Progress Party believes it is the people who build the country. Then I find it sad that the Workers' Party in its main post here today does not mention the unsocial abbreviation between married and cohabiting pensioners with one word. Some of us tried to challenge the Workers' Party on this in the financial debate, but then it was completely silent. Some of us tried to challenge the Workers' Party when we discussed the bill on curtailment. Then it was almost completely silent. The Progress Party does not regard retirement as a gift from the state. Retirement is something you've earned through a long working life. You have paid taxes, social security contributions, you have paid for your own pension. Then it shouldn't be that the Storting cuts arbitrarily in the pension, and it's particularly unreasonable that you should be punished if you're so lucky to be married or cohabited. There are no valid arguments for that. Some people say it's more reasonable to live together. Yes, in many cases it is more reasonable for a household to live two pieces together, but nevertheless it is not that we cut in cash or sick money if you are married or cohabited. But for the country's pensioners, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that's all right. I'm proud that some of the last deputies Robert Eriksson and the government got presented was a follow-up to the election vows of the Advance Party, that we should reduce the curtailment from 15 p.m. to 10 pst. This will benefit 650 000 pensioners. Most old-age pensioners and many unemployed people will benefit from this. Every married or cohabiting pensioner couple will now get $8,000 more because they get an increased basic pension. I think $8,000 is a lot for the country's pensioners. The Socialist Left has previously argued that they are against this, because they believe it is good distribution policy to take away from the country's pensioners. There's something the Progress Party disagrees with, but I hope we can also have a debate on this today, because I think it's interesting for the country's pensioners to know that in a possible new government it will reverse this and continue to cut pensions for the most people. But I am pleased with the budget we have today. It is a budget that has been well received, it is a budget that has a good balance between good instruments within Nav, within the instrument to help those who are outside, and not least it is a good budget to secure the jobs we have, better the framework conditions for business, so that we also facilitate innovative businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e424	Retirement is a right that you have paid for. There is at least one group not covered by that statement by the representative of Wiborg. We discussed last week the privatisation of public services. The debate was about how to avoid people losing pension rights paid for by privatisation and outsourcing. In that debate, Mr Wiborg said: ‘In the case of employees, it can be seen on a competitive basis that there are also several cases where employees have received a better pension scheme than they had. We have examples of employees getting better pay and working conditions than they had.» What examples did the representative Wiborg have in mind in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e436	Firstly, with regard to that debate, it is worth reminding the representative that the Labour Party was in favour of voting down the Socialist Left proposal. In fact, they had a different proposal, but they did not want to go into what the Socialist Left Party proposal had. This is a government that is pleased with diversity. As I was in my main post – when I talked about, among other things. Hospital queues, which have been reduced – do so, among other things. a desire to use all good forces, both private and public. That is why I am pleased that several municipalities also choose to use competitive outsourcing. When you have put out more services, it means that your employees have more employers to choose from. Employers must compete for the labour they want. It helps you to have different pay and pension systems in your different businesses, which I think is good for your employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e445	Since the representative could not answer the representative's question about giving examples, I expect that Wiborg can be given the opportunity to come back with the necessary examples later in the debate, so that we can clarify it. Otherwise, in the case of pensions cuts, the Centrette stands for the opposite. It was the Center Party, among other things, which proposed NOK 1 000 more per month to the minimum pensioners, in 1997, which triggered the statements of former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland. But my question is about what the representative Wiborg said about Nav, which was to renew, simplify and strengthen. Nav is responsible for a great and important work – only the administrative costs are at the level of the entire agricultural structure. The representative had a big word that every single individual will get the support you need. One was to move from bureaucracy to user reform. My question is: should pension and work measures continue to be in the same establishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e454	The government has announced that the Nav message will arrive in the spring, and I will not exclude anything. It is no secret that the Progress Party has more thoughts and views on how Nav should be simplified and streamlined. One thing we've spoken about in the past is not to have a municipal section and a state part. We want to make the system more seamless. But we're willing to have a good and open discussion about the whole Nav. The most important thing for us is, as I said, not the system, the most important thing for us is what Nav delivers to the individual. We are willing to listen to all the good suggestions and recordings. Among other things, we have The Vågeng selection, which has pointed to several important things we can do with Nav to make sure that the individual user is viewed as an individual – and is not viewed as something to fit into an A4 system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e461	The representative Wiborg talks about reducing the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners and points to retirement as a earned right. Why do the representatives of Wiborg and the Progress Party think that large pension losses have been achieved in the event of privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e466	We believe that it is up to the individual where you want to work. And that's how when you change jobs, you see that there are different pay and work conditions in most jobs. It's up to the individual where you want to work, or what association you're a member of, and up to the individual themselves what conditions you can negotiate. There are, as I said, more examples of people who have risen in wages when they have chosen to work in a competitive business, and there are examples of some who have fallen in wages. This is, as I said, up to the individual. The most important thing here is to provide a system that respects the rights of the individual employee. I still register that the representative Bergstø is talking a lot about employees who might lose something on the competition, but she chooses to omit that she wants to cut NOK 8 000 in the pension for those who have built our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e475	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e478	I would also like to start my speech by congratulating the Council of State Hauglie. I had a good cooperation with the former Council of State, Robert Eriksson, and I look forward to a good dialogue on important matters in the future with the new Council of State. It's a demanding time to get into the Council of States. There has been a demanding harvest and a demanding budget because the country is in a special situation. I would like to say that we have in particular had three major issues that marked the budgetary debate. There was increasing unemployment, increased influx of refugees and, of course, the underlying climate challenge. We have increased unemployment in Norway, among others. Because of the low oil price, which for days now has reached less than $40. It is serious and requires action for the current situation. But today's situation differs from previous downtimes. So we can't just look back at what we did to solve the financial crisis, we need to find the right measures that are adapted to the current situation. According to Nav, the availability has increased by approx. 11 pst. from November last to November this year and is located at approx. 3 pst. If you break down the numbers, it's, like, a lot of geographic differences. In some counties it has not changed, and in some counties unemployment has actually fallen, while the South and West countries have been hit hard. There's been a dramatic increase in unemployment. Therefore, it is important to ensure measures in the sectors that are now particularly affected and in the regions that are particularly affected. This is how we can ensure that we get to a conversion that in turn leads to the unemployed returning to work quickly. At the same time, the Christian People's Party will stress that in a situation where there are more unemployed, it will be extra difficult for people who stand far from work to come back. The work that is demanding enough to be normal becomes extra demanding at this stage. That's why I also want to remind the Council of State that it's an important task to keep with them all the time. In 2016, as the chairman of the committee also said, changes many of the labour market measures. I noticed that he said a "thread" of new measures. I would rather say that there will be many fewer measures, but larger frameworks within the measures to better address the individual user. I would also like to highlight the new AFT measure, as the Stortinget has said, to be strengthened. It may not come until the end of 2016, but it will be an important measure to reach those who are far away from work. Budget negotiations started with a budget from the government that I would say had many good proposals and a good device related to the challenges we faced, with a large package of actions in the billion-class in maintenance, construction, innovation and industry, as well as the arrival of 4,000 new action sites. Labour market measures are an important factor in helping people back. The budget agreement also led to more measures being taken. There is now an increase in apprenticeship grants, more places to study, more measures specifically aimed at helping young people. I want to stay a little bit on youth leave because it's extra important that you put an effort there, so that you don't start your career starting at Nav. That is why we are pleased with the increased apprenticeship grant of NOK 2 500 per contract and with the 1000 youth-targeted areas of action, and not least with the two-year training measure for people with weak basic skills, which we hope can help them to avoid getting out of work. Then we're also happy with what's going on in retirement. One thing is that one does something with the curtailment rules, but we are also particularly pleased that we are raising the minimum pension, because we know that the minimum pension is below the EU poverty line. I want to tell the representative Wiborg that it's not just because they were in and built the country, it's because they deserve the pension regardless of whether they were into it or not. It's an important part of getting older: one should know that one is being cared for. Then I'll pick up two keywords at the end. One is the crime of working life. We're going to have to set up more work centres, there's going to be five of them now. It is important to combat social dumping, and it is important to strengthen that part of the serious work life, so that their position is not weakened because of those who wonder away. I would also like to say that we have had important measures to combat poverty, including: more funds for incoming EEA citizens. With regard to kindergarten and school, there are also important measures, but there is a job we need to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e501	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e504	The representative Robstad was concerned about unemployment in his post, and that is why. The state budget that we are dealing with here today explains that the rules of leave are very successful, with a target of 90 pst. – nine out of ten come back to work. Now, Norwegian Industry, Western companies and employee organisations are asking for an extension of the leave system. Why won't the Christian People's Party use an effective tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e509	Thanks for the important questions. We believe that the permitting code works well as it is today. The length that is, we think, is right. What I find challenging is the question of extending the law on permitting, and what I was talking about in my post, is that one is now in a transition phase where one knows that many of the jobs that today, for example. are present within offshore and petroleum, possibly not in that industry. What we fear, if one had extended the permitting code so far as I have recorded that both the Workers' Party and large parts of the trade movement want, is that instead of disappearing out of that industry and using the competence one has to build other types of jobs, perhaps within other industries, one would remain in a industry that it might not be as big as it looks today. We believe – as the representative says – that the scheme works well as it is today, over a shorter period. We think it's the right length of the legislation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e517	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e520	I would also like to welcome the State Council, Mr Hauglie, to the government's most demanding position and the largest economic budget, with 426 billion. kr. It should be good bones to fill the former state council's ground boots, a state council that had as its basic attitude that everyone should feel the security of society. It may be strong of me as a center partyist to say this here, but it's words from the heart. Security, getting along financially, is a goal for everyone. Social security is fundamental. Without profitable work, there will be problems for people and a great deal of family insecurity. From historical experience, high unemployment and unfair pay and working conditions provide the basis for social unrest, as is the case in many EU countries. This is the result of political priorities and no natural law. I am pleased that in this setting there is agreement on the goal of full employment, not high employment, which the government parties tried to introduce as a concept. The role of the size in a market economy is to correct market forces in order to ensure the achievement of social objectives in a mixed economy, and this is enshrined in the Basic Law, § 110, which states: «The authorities of the Member States shall facilitate any person who is capable of working for the purpose of living at work or at work. The person who is unable to provide his own living shall have the right to public support.’;» Security in Norwegian working life depends on many different policy decisions. First, the free or controlled movement of labour to Norway from outside the Nordic region is a core issue. The centre party represents controlled labour immigration, showing full-time employment contracts with Norwegian pay and working conditions must be a requirement. It's a fundamental important point of view. Secondly, a maritime monetary policy with its own currency, i.e. a floating krone instead of the euro, is absolutely crucial. Today there are no economic liberals, not in the right here, who are now foreshadowing the euro as the currency of Norway – thank you and the price for it. The third policy area is the organisation of a strong national trade union movement based on ‘doing your duty, demanding your right’ and overall social responsibility. It's a big advantage, but it's weakening today. It has to be taken seriously and it has to be changed. The national role of the trade union movement must be strengthened. Furthermore, point 4 is a strong labour-environment law that builds on permanent employment and working conditions that promote good improvements in labour productivity. We need to reduce the possibility of using crew companies, cancel today's proposal from the Centre Party to repeal the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Labour Environment Act. The fifth area is strong tripartite cooperation between employers, workers and the public, ensuring stability and promoting better use of natural resources, capital and labour, and recognising the need for a fair distribution of value creation between raw materials, capital and labour. Distribution policy must have a more prominent role in the future, and tripartite cooperation is important. The sixth main area is the safety net of people who fall out of work temporarily or permanently: permitting schemes, daily allowances, unemployment benefits, sickness benefits, redundancy benefits, disability benefits. The centre party is strongly associated with universal rights and Community financing. However, the funding of this basic attitude depends on people experiencing that a sail and those you know benefit from it in a fair way. The centre party sees the challenges so that we have to systematically work to reduce the economic differences among people in order to promote Cohesion Norway, this in order to create a majority to ring around the universal arrangements. The seventh area is that those of us who have the most difficulty in obtaining income-bearing work based on their capacity and situation, as elected representatives of the state budget, we must provide a more equivalent opportunity for participation. That's where we've powered up our resources in the budget, gone in by 1 365 million. kr, which can provide income-intensive work for about 10 000 people. It's a power collection in the most central area. The other area in which we focus is to ensure that we have a follow-up to labour laws and regulations to combat social dumping and crime at work: Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax administration – a total of 115 million. kr. These are the key areas, the criminality of work, social dumping and the organisation of work. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and that is how we have prioritised other areas, but that must be the policy, one must give priority first.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e550	It is a well-known fact that the representative Lundtigen has a clear voice in the EEA and has no particular desire to have a free flow of labour within the EEA territory. At the same time, refugees are invited to participate in the Norwegian labour market whenever possible. What I'm asking is, why is it that you make a difference between these two groups if that's how you need the skills from both?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e555	So we're dividing between those that come from the North and those that come from other places. We still want to have a free labour market in the Nordic countries. The reason why this is the equivalent ratio. We've had this for a long time. It has worked unproblematic. The problems arise when we get free movement of labour from countries where unemployment is very high, where pay and working conditions are very poor and people are in a difficult situation, and one is willing to come to Norway to work for completely different pay and working conditions than we need. However, we also want labour from these areas on condition that you have a work contract through a regulated labour immigration, so that you have a control over it. This will ensure that within the territory of Norway it is possible to achieve all the fine objectives that all the parties here are talking about, but how few talk about the analysis that is necessary for one to be able to carry it out in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e564	First of all, I would just like to remind the representative, Mr Lundtegen, that in Norway it is such that everyone should have a contract of employment. The Progress Party and the undersigned share much of the scepticism of the representative Lundtigen towards the EU and also points to several challenges with the Schengen and EEA systems. That is why several of us have called for a stronger fight against the growing social security exports, which were doubled in the time of the representative Lundtägen's party in government. But the representative Lundtigen was not involved in the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners. Predictability is important, you talk about it. My question is, if the Center Party were to come back to a position where they could change this – will the Center Party cut $8,000 for the country's married and cohabiting pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e573	Firstly, there will only be mouthaches from the Progress Party when they say that they share much of the scepticism of the Centre Party to the EU and the EEA, when they are EU and EEA trailers. The party of progress must now decide what they think in this area and not create such confusion. Secondly, social security exports: the centre party is too universal arrangements, and we have it as our line. This means that all those in the Norwegian territory are given equal opportunities for social security and benefits, including those who have accumulated it and who have temporarily retained it elsewhere. As regards the curtailment of pensions, the Central Party will at any time consider what is a priority basis to include, but as we see the matter now, and as we look into the matter in the future, we do not see the basis for prioritising an increased cost to cohabitants and married pensioners of about 2 billion. kr annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e582	I can start by saying that it is good to right that the Centre Party and Lundtigen are positive to and for freedom of movement and the common labour market in the Nordic region, which they were against when it was established. So the world goes forward. I have another question about labour immigration. Now we've been through a decade in Norway with a very big growth, with a very high demand for labour, a lot of high oil prices, and we have a very large labour migration. Now it's lower growth. There is a lower oil price, and there is also lower labour migration. She has the brake force up, and for some groups the exchange is now negative. People travel back and search for jobs in other countries. Then my question is: does this not just show that the analysis of the representative of Lundteg is wrong, and that the free movement of labour is working, and that a person is looking where it is work to get?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e589	The Left Party has evolved into one of the most economically liberal parties in many contexts, and the representative Rotevatn is one of the foremost representatives of it. It's an ideology that the Center Party is very distant from, and that increasingly sees the negative consequences of. In the case of growth in the Norwegian economy over the last 10 to 15 years, it has been extreme. It's been completely different, it's been completely indifferent to the rest of the world. The center party tried to dampen it, so we wouldn't have such great wave movements. Well, that didn't happen. Now we have a new situation. However, it continues to be that pay and working conditions, the opportunities for income in Norway, are significantly better than in Romania and other Eastern European countries. It would be naïve to think that if today's regime continues without any kind of control, we will not continue to have a large amount of labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e596	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e599	I would also like to start my speech by congratulating Mr Hauglie as the new Minister of Labour. We from the Left side had a good cooperation with the government council Robert Eriksson, and we look forward to a good cooperation with the new government council. Our country has a lot of advantages, and there's a lot of good going on in Norway. Some of the major disadvantages and management of things that are not going well are the labour and social budgets that are going to increase. In order to take on three major challenges in an immediate order — the wave of older people, unemployment and refugee dreams: the first challenge, the wave of older people, we have been aware of it for a long time. The other two challenges — the rising unemployment rate and the refugee dream — have been acute in the last year. The government's proposal for a budget in the field of employment and social affairs was initially a very good response to the challenges we face: an increase in the number of action areas by 4000, a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate in the fight against crime at work, and an increase in the number of jobless people who have been rising and are likely to continue to rise. On the left hand side, however, we made a good deal of changes when we were to make our own priorities in our own alternative budget. Some of the important things for us have been to ensure a stronger social profile in the budget. Among other things, the Left in its proposal has provided for more use of both temporal and temporal wage increases, and we propose a redistribution to several VTA sites, where the need is still great. All in all, the Left's alternative budget for 2016 leads to a strengthening of measures for disadvantaged people in the labour market by 253 million. kr. In addition, we propose strengthening the social security network for self-employed workers and implementing reforms in schemes that do not pay off at work. All this and more can be read in the Left's Alternative State Budget. Unfortunately, that budget didn't get multiples. Multiples also had no other budget proposals, so the Left has entered into negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Government with the aim of finding a budgetary unit. Everyone has given and taken, and the result has been good and will get multiples. We made sure that the efforts to create more jobs were strengthened, and not least we made sure that the most possible of them became green and viable jobs. The action package for how to reduce the unemployment rate is solid. The taxes are being lowered, and we are seen by large sums of money for innovation and stimulation programmes. The work force will be further strengthened. We're creating more centers for work crime. And of course, that's not all you're happy with. For example, the Left had other priorities in our budget when it comes to pensions, than what we're still dealing with in the final budgetary agreement. As I said in a debate last week, in our view, it was a bad priority to reduce the shortening of married and cohesive pensioners – in my view, in order to reduce economic differences. That being said, this is a point which has been important to the other party and which is also part of the cooperation agreement between the four bourgeois parties. However, I am pleased that a room has been found through the budget agreement to allow something more for single minimum pensioners. It's a group that has significantly bigger economic challenges than most of us. In the future, it will be decisive to lower the thresholds against our working life – both because there is already a large outreach in our country by citizens who want to work but who do not get access to it, and because we will in the future receive many new inhabitants to our country who are fleeing from war and misery. And even though accepting many new ones in Norway has many challenges to do with it, there's also reason to remember that it can represent a possibility. When the head of Deutsche Bank was asked in an interview earlier this week about what was the most positive thing that had happened in the last year, he replied that it was that there were one million refugees coming to Germany. This is a country that is about to enter a huge wave of older people, and needs labour. Although demography is not as bad as it is in this country, fortunately, we also have challenges in attracting enough labour, especially in some sectors. Making sure that it pays for newcomers to come to work and that Nav, UDI and all other agencies are aligned with one goal – to get people to work – represents a challenge, but it also represents a possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e618	Before he voted against the Workers' Party's proposal for a better law on permitting, the representative Rotevatn had some basic wording in his intervention in the debate. He said: ‘One should look closely at the measures proposed, and one should be well-informed that there are more positive consequences than negative consequences before an emergency enters it.’ If one applies this principle to the Left's alternative state budget, it is not difficult to find an example that there is something far between life and learning. The left proposes, among other things: entirely out of the blue to cut the length of redundancy money from four to three years. Is Rotevatn aware of some professional arrangements that show more positive than negative consequences of that measure? Or is it such that this principle shall only apply to any batch other than the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e628	In order to take this into account first, which has come back in several articles and replies from the Workers' Party, this is not a required measure by a single employer who is responsible for the whole country, for the whole industry, and not just for individual sectors. It has been a strong warning against it, from work, for example, and also the NHO is against that proposal. There's no need to rush into it. When it comes to redundancy money, we have several major challenges with that scheme. Perhaps the most important thing is that people don't get clarified fast enough, and that they're going to be walking for a very long time. When one merged the old measures for redundancy money, they had different lengths, ranging from indefinite to one year. One chose to land in four years without any further foundation from the ministry. What we know is that as a person approaches the end of a period, he accelerates the clarification, and he gets what he's after, that's an answer. That answer should come faster than it does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e635	The most important thing we're facing is to ensure full employment while at the same time getting a transition from business to reduce CO2 emissions from fossil carbon sources. It's very, very demanding, because what we're facing is actually a settlement with the last 50 years' ideology of how to develop a good society, then with regard to fossil energy sources. Then the representative, Rotevatern, says to lower the threshold into the labour market and look at Deutsche Bank. In Norway, we have agreed on Norwegian pay and working conditions and permanent employment. My question is: are these two thresholds to be lowered – Norwegian pay and working conditions and permanent employment? If these two thresholds are not to be lowered, what is the threshold in which the representative Rotevatn wants to lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e643	I want to start by agreeing with the introductory analysis of Lundtegen that we are facing a great transformation of our economy in the green direction. There's also one of the things that the Left is most pleased with in this state budget, that we're now implementing a solid green tax shift on billions of dollars, and this happens at a very different rate than under the previous government. Unfortunately, I have registered that the centre party has made it an important struggle this house to fight against increased green taxes, and the party cancelled as well as any proposals from the Green Tax Commission. So to this thing with the threshold into the working life. We've already made changes to the work environment law, where we've lowered some of the thresholds into working life. We're excited about, and we like to see, the effects of it. The left-hand side thinks they're going to be positive. But there's also other things we have to do. For example, I think that a way to lower the thresholds in working life is to strengthen the payroll system, so that people get the opportunity to try out and that employers take a chance. There is also much else that the representative can read about in the alternative budget of the Left, which makes it easier to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e650	The left removes the AFP in its alternative budget. There have been several settlements to put in place the AFP scheme. I wonder: is this an expression of the Left's position on negotiated arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e655	For many years, the left has been critical of it, and in our budget, it has been down the stairs, the state affluence of the AFP. The reason why it's simple. We think it should pay to be at work and that schemes that the public are involved in financing should be universal. I think it is a pity that the party SV is unfortunately going against what is present in proposals that make it pay to be longer in the job, whether we are talking about AFP, or we are talking about age limits for when you lose your deposit protection. We have a huge resource in this country, and there are older workers who have a lot to contribute. It should pay for them to be in work as far as possible, and they should have a safe protection of workers as far as possible. It has been an important matter for the Left for many years, and it should not come as a surprise to anyone that it still is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e660	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e663	I would like to begin by congratulating the Hauglie Council of State on an important mission and welcoming her as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Today we are dealing with a budget that is not in line with its time. We see that the differences increase and that it is added up to increasing differences. We see an equality policy in reverse, and we see that the green shift still hovers in the blue. Unemployment is rising. It is particularly serious for young people and young people. It is then difficult to understand that the idea of removing the Youth Guarantee, as former State Council Eriksson has done. I hope for new tones now. Because unemployment is the worst waste of resources a society can have, and because this is a difficult situation for individuals to be in, SV in our budget promotes a boost in the fight to get people to work. We are also promoting a promise to preserve businesses in a demanding economic time through better law-making, and in particular we are lifting the fight for young people in work. Youth has a special job position in the workplace. They're often the first ones that have to go, and they like the last ones that come in. Yes, the changes in the Working Environment Act also affect young people. SV will have an enhanced youth guarantee that gives young people under the age of 25 the right to work, education or activity within three months. If it is to be that politicians allow themselves to moralize for young people to get up in the morning, then you're going to help make it a thing to stand up to. Society with small differences is good societies to live in. Therefore, SV promotes a redistribution policy. We believe that this is sustainable and strengthens well-being. We do not regard the welfare state as a safety net, but as a prerequisite for living a good and free life that provides a basis for equal opportunities regardless of sex and class. Working systematically to break down power structures is crucial to achieving changed power relationships, which is a goal of a socialist party. That is why we are promoting a policy for a more organised working life. The power situation in the labour market determines what it is like to be in the labour market, and that is why we are promoting a policy for more equality. We see employment and gender equality policies in the context, and therefore we want to reverse the changes in the Working Environment Act. We know that women in particular are losing, and that's why we want to strengthen tripartite cooperation for equality. We know that there is the key to greater progress, and that is why we want to increase our efforts to combat discrimination in the labour market and strengthen our universal approach. In particular, we see that pregnant and young children's parents are exposed to discrimination in the workplace. We will also increase work towards involuntary part-time and for full-time culture. This is the experience of the red-green government and was an effort that gave good results in both the public and private sectors. We want more trials with six hours of work. We want a working life that you can live with and stay longer with health, instead of going out as lazy and bumping out of work. We want to reverse the culture we have today, where women work part-time while men work overtime. It's interesting to see that in many places that have tried six hours of work, well-being goes up and sick leave goes down. That is why we are proposing in our budget funds for more experience of six hours of work. We want the work to be distributed among more, the workers to have more time and a society where you have room to live your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e684	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e687	I heard the rhetoric that sick leave goes down and well-being gets higher, and I thought that this I have heard before somewhere. Then I found out that this is the rhetoric we use when we talk about a more flexible working time. Then I also thought that it was not certain that it was the six-hour day itself, but that it was actually allowed to decide over their own working time – something we have argued for and the representative Bergstø has argued against – which was crucial. I also heard the representative Bergstø say that you should have something to stand up to in the morning. It strikes me that SV and the representative Bergstø opposed the introduction of an activity obligation for social welfare recipients, who would actually contribute to the fact that the young people receiving social assistance have something to stand up to. But what characterises the Socialist Left Party in labour and social policy is that they are not willing to change the things of some world in a welfare system that has its challenges. We can ask: What arrangements or benefits – if any – is the representative of Bergstø who wants to adjust to make them better?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e695	It is policy that is important, not rhetoric. It's the policy that determines what opportunities we get in our lives. It is quite right that the representative Heggelund observed that SV is against forced labour for poor people, and we are for a good social work that is adapted to the individual. If the Right believes that six hours workday is no change, there are new tones from the Right, which is interesting to notice. But it is absolute that SV proposes several changes in welfare. We wish, among other things: social assistance recipients should not be curtailed by child welfare. We want to make sure that you have a right to follow up from Nav so that you can try your way into work. We want a welfare system that sees the individual, that takes the individual seriously, that has a working line that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e704	Earlier in the debate, the representative Lundtigen has confirmed that the Central Party will cut pensions by 2 billion. kr annually in relation to what is now added up, and thus reverse the curtailment. It would have been interesting to hear about the Socialist Left Party sharing this view, because it's interesting to know it in the event of a new red-green government. In particular, the Socialist Left Party wants to cut the pension of married and cohabiting pensioners, while the Socialist Left Party wants to extend the scheme of so-called supplementary social benefits to new countrymen. I hope that the representative Bergstø can explain why she believes that people who have never lived in Norway will receive a higher pension, while people who have lived in the country throughout their lives will get less in retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e711	It's wanted to hear how the Progress Party repeatedly sets people up against each other. They set up a distinction between us and the others and say that it is reasonable that people who have not lived long enough in Norway should not be guaranteed a worthy old age. I think that's gross. It's like SV has raised the minimum pensioners when we have had the opportunity to do it. When we were in government, we did a lot of work so that they with the least pension would get more to live for. It is a policy I am proud of, and it is a policy we support. The question asked is what will happen to a reduction in the curtailment when a new majority comes. It's too early to shoot, because everyone knows that the greatest bill for the commitment of the Progress Party is likely to pay for a new majority. I look forward to working out that majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e720	We are in a very demanding phase, which the representative was also in, with increased unemployment. But both the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have a common goal of transforming the Norwegian economy into a greener economy where more jobs are in the green industry. At the same time, it is tragic for the individuals who lose the job, whether it is in Statoil, Aibel, Aker or NOV etc., and it is demanding to look at it. But the goal is that several of those who work as engineers in Statoil today, instead, will work in State Power or in other companies that contribute to creating either green energy or at least more sustainable industries. I'm being challenged today about the law of permitting. Even I think it is demanding because the point must be that one does not maintain the industries that we agree should be switched to more green industries, or at least that the jobs should be used for things other than oil and gas. Can the representative reflect a little on how she thinks about permitting legislation and locking in the workforce, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e732	The Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have many common goals. I am absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party would have achieved even more objectives in an even better political community. The Norwegian model has the very best assumption and the very best basis for conversion. This is why it is essential, in the SV's view, to have a policy that strengthens and respects the Norwegian model, i.e. a well-organised working life and working tripartite cooperation. We want to have an enhanced permization system, because if a real change is to take place, we need to safeguard the industrial skills that the country has, which will be our most important advantage in a green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e739	The cord shift is over. Next speaker is State Council Annick Hauglie. The President will take the opportunity to welcome the Council of State to the Stortinget and to the Chair of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e744	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for a lot of nice words and a good reception – I appreciate that very much. I will, of course, do my best to cooperate well with the Stortinget in a very important area for our country. We live in a country with great opportunities. We have a highly educated population, an open economy and a society of trust, which has given us a starting point for growth and is an important ballast for us in the situation we are now in – because there is no doubt that we are now in troubled waters. Although the unemployment rate is relatively low, it is equally fully increasing – we have too many young people under the age of 30 who fall outside, combined with a flow of refugees that requires a lot of us all. We also see that unemployment is unevenly distributed between parts of the country. South and Western countries are struggling due to a decline in oil-related industries, which now appear to have ring-effects to other parts of the country, while, for example, Inland and North Norway experience good times. My ambition is to help reverse the negative development, that those who are now out of work, and the job vacancies find each other in a well-functioning labour market that ensures mobility, that fewer young people fall outside, and that refugees who are granted residence are integrated and able to support themselves. Work is important to all of us, both economically and socially. It gives us income, but also social belonging. The challenges have to be met with many instruments and measures, as this budget does: 4000 more action places than the aged budget provided, while maintaining the level of action of people with disabilities, focusing on knowledge, which is the most important thing we can do for our children, and a historically high focus on nutrient research and innovation, and not least on transport and infrastructure. Income protection is important for the unemployed person or for other reasons cannot work. But the most important welfare is to facilitate safe jobs and profitable businesses. The thread in this entire budget, not just in what we are dealing with today, is therefore work, activity and conversion, because high employment and profitable enterprises are the basis for our well-being. Many young people struggle to get a job when the demand for labour is low. The Board’s youth package shall discourage young people from falling outside education and working life and ensure that they are rapidly involved in training and activity. The Government therefore proposes that 1 000 of the additional job vacancies in 2016 be linked to the implementation of measures in the youth package and, in the case of training provision in labour market measures, a new two-year training measure with the aim of vocational training and the increase in the apprenticeship allowance – to mention something. The government is busy reducing school drop-outs. In order to ensure that school leaving is not economically viable in order to participate in labour market measures as well as to receive action grants, it is proposed to introduce a lower age limit of 18 in order to receive action grants. In times of slacker labour market, it is important that we do not adhere to the demands of seriousness in working life. The fight against crime at work is therefore now particularly important for the government. This is politically supported by an overall Norway and is important for the organisations in the labour market. For the government, better coordinated and more effective supervisory work is a key factor in the work. In 2015, our own centres against labour crime were established in Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger, where the police, the tax administration, the Labour Inspectorate and the Nav Control work together to combat labour crime. The government has proposed to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate with a new 10 million. kr in 2016, and it is positive that the cooperative parties agreed to set aside funds for two new co-located centres against labour crime in next year’s budget – a total of 24 million. kr. For a long time, we have seen that Norway has been attractive to many immigrants, especially from the EEA. Many of them possess the skills required by Norwegian businesses. Here, too, they find each other without a job and the vacancies. Today we have service centres for foreign workers in Bergen, Stavanger, Oslo and Kirkenes. The government has noticed the good feedback from both the immigrants and the business community who use the existing service centres, and therefore proposes to establish a new service centre in Trondheim in 2016. In addition to labour immigration, Norway experiences an asylum influx we have not had before. A broad majority in the United Kingdom has therefore agreed on important measures to address the refugee crisis. The Government will follow up this agreement by, inter alia, to review specific arrangements for refugees and asylum seekers in the public interest and to ensure that there are operational and earning requirements for them where it is natural. It is also important to make provision for those who have been granted a residence to learn Norwegian and enter the labour market. The government follows up the agreement with a view to introducing living requirements for the receipt of cash support and benefits that do not support work and activity. A stronger social security network is one of the main areas of government activity. The government will further develop the management of labour and welfare through several interventions — strengthening and further developing the employment services, both for employers and jobseekers, developing more user-oriented services that are efficient and targeted and contribute to good experiences for the users of the Nav Office, and increasing the powers and freedom of action of the Nav Office. As Stortinget is also known, the government will send a big message that follows up the Vågeng selection settings in this area. I am pleased that the government together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the 2016 budget has found room to fulfil an important measure in the cooperation agreement. In the cooperation agreement, one of the objectives is to reduce the curtailment of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners from 15 pst. to 10 pst. The government follows this up and proposes that their basic pension be increased to 90 pst. of the basic amount from 1 September 2016. This reduces a difference that many experience as being unfair. At the same time, the comparison increases the pension rate of single-age pensioners with a minimum pension of NOK 4000, who then benefit them with at least one of the old-age pensioners. Let me finish where I started, with the employment. We have a high level of employment in Norway, but there are still too many outside. At the same time, we are now facing additional challenges related to the decline in the petroleum sector. This requires wisdom and long-termity. We need measures to help people in a transitional phase, but most importantly now there is a policy that ensures safe jobs, profitable businesses and good financing of our common well-being. The entire government budget is a good response to the task of securing work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e775	Of course, I'm not going to bother the newly proposed Council of State with any detail from the budget. I liked that, in the speech of the Council of State, there was little confrontation, although there might be discussion about some of the conclusions, not least about the issues ahead of us. However, there is one question I allow myself to ask that does not go into detail, but is about the unemployment situation we are in, which the Council of State was quite right about. Now that we're meeting Christmas, there are 127,000 people in Norway who are insecure, insecure and do not know what the future will bring. So in that situation, the government, with its supporting parties, has cut beyond 2 billion. kr annually in sum, directly on the economy of the unemployed. Does the Council see that it can be a bit heavy just before Christmas that the economy will be cut when you are in a somewhat difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e782	Thank you for your attention with regard to details. I want to say that the most important thing we can do is to make sure that the unemployed can feel secure that their job does not go away. If it stays away, they should feel confident that it will be possible to get a new and stable job. So the most important thing we can do is to make sure that we have safe jobs. It is also the case that the funds for the unemployed have increased. As I mentioned in my main post, we are increasing, among other things. The number of places of action of 4 000, and we give priority to those who are available – along with the discussion on the holiday supplement. We are reducing support for those who are self-employed, and we believe that it is a priority that is important. We strengthen industrial research and innovation to ensure that we have jobs in the future that we will live on. We spend a lot of time, perhaps more than ever, on transportation and infrastructure, just to make sure that there are jobs here and now. In sum: it is important to provide lasting jobs when people need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e794	Like the Council of State, I would also like to stress that it is far from being cut for the unemployed who are in here. What is likely to be suggested, for example: holiday money and the like, apply when they're going back to work, so I'm going to end up with what the council says. What I also think is important, and as I am happy to hear, are the visions that the Council of State is making in its contribution. I know that the background the Council of State has from knowledge will be incredibly important also in the job to be done now. My challenge to the Council of State today is really just how she wants to use the experience she has of succeeding in school, getting a good education, can prevent as much of what the Minister of Labour will have to do in the future. How will the Council of State use the expertise and experience she has from this, to ensure that you don't go to Nav, but can get into good jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e801	Thank you for the question. Yes, I was a social agency for three and a half years and then a school office, and I saw clearly how these things are connected. The most important thing we can do for our children is to ensure them a good school that enables them to go on studying or get the jobs they want later in life. We see that too many fall out of school, with the challenges it brings to them later in life. That is exactly why a good school in childhood is important. Later, you have to make sure that those who fall out of school are qualified so that they can get a job. It is no longer such that you can meet outside the factory port and get a job. All jobs today require qualifications, including those who did not require it before. It presents us with a challenge, just to bet on knowledge and competence, as this budget puts it. Of course, I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e808	The work of transforming business while having full employment is the main work of Stortingen, in my opinion. The new Council of State has a Urias post – I'm sorry to say – when one is in a government based on economic liberalism and business neutrality. When, in addition, there's a weak analysis of why we've come to where we are and what the way out of it is, and there's a lack of necessary economic instruments, besides research and development, is a real fixture. I'm going to ask a simple question: the representative Rotevatn said that in order to ensure full employment, a lower threshold should be introduced into working life. Does the Council agree with changes leading to fewer fixed-term jobs as part of this threshold reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e815	First of all, I would strongly reject the fact that I have received a Urias mail. I believe that I have received an incredibly exciting post, and I would say that at the moment it is perhaps one of the most exciting posts you can have. I did not say yes to this because it was supposed to be easy, but because it is an exciting and important challenge to deal with in a demanding time. I want to invite the Stortinget to cooperate to solve our joint mission in the time we're in. I fully agree that it is important that we look at what prevents people from getting into work, older than young people, because we know that older workers are also struggling to get into work, and I believe that the changes they have made to the Working Environment Act are absolutely necessary. I'm excited about what the consequences will be. It's a little early to draw conclusions. I feel pretty sure that the changes made by Stortinget will lead to a lower threshold for young people. I believe that one of the most important things we do now is to focus on knowledge, research, development and to ensure that the future gets jobs to live off.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e822	If we look a little past our pressing challenges of employment, refugee and unemployment, we have some long-term challenges. We have a welfare system that cracks in the joints, and that's going to meet an older wave that's going to require a lot of us. We have a lot of systems in Norway that we should probably look at with a critical look. There are a lot of people who are doing well, and we have to make sure that we focus our efforts on those who need it the most. At the same time, many people in Norway feel good about it. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State has a good knowledge of her former function as a social agency. My question to the state council, which is in a new role, is: is there any specific group that the state council believes should strengthen and help in the future, by strengthening the security network?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e829	There is no doubt that youth is a group that is particularly close to me, and we see that there are too many young people who fall outside. The main challenge for outsiders is that they tend to fall outside for so long, and we know that the longer one stands outside the workplace or school, the harder it is to get back. As far as the budget we have now is concerned, I am particularly pleased with what is happening to young people, i.e. school, education and the qualification of younger people and the measures we are taking to ensure that young people enter the labour market. It's a group that we have to follow separately, too, in the future. I have a love for another group too, which is not directly below my budget now, but perhaps partly, and it is those who are struggling with rush and psychiatry. In this context, I see that the escalation plan presented by the government is incredibly important to ensure a better starting point for getting back into society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e836	The new Council of State has got an incredibly important job, and I hope that when she has got a few more days in the chair, she can contribute to not spending so much research on what is not the jobs of the future, namely the oil industry, but using it on more sensible things. She will receive two suggestions, free of charge: one saves money, and that is the removal of the cash support. It's stupid to pay to keep mother away from work and education and to keep kids away from school. It's not a good working life policy. The second is a proposal that SV has promoted in Stortinget, which is about integration, and that the immigrants who come and have to have an introduction system can connect both the language training and the introduction system with formal education, such as: in Sogn and Fjordane, where the Nav Director of Sogn and Fjordane asks for changes in the rules, the changes in the rules that SV has promoted in Stortinget, which enable them to be combined in such a way that they come out with formal competence, for example: as a health professional, for which there is a great need in the future. Will the Council of State take a positive view of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e847	Cash support is livelyly discussed from time to time, and I can only say that it is neither this government's policy nor my party's policy to remove it, so it is probably not going to happen – at least not in this period. With regard to the second proposal on integration, which dealt with the introduction system, etc., it is one of the areas that I think it is natural to look at when we are going to present the Awakeng report and in the follow-up to it. I think you're going to look pretty bluntly at the arrangements we have, how they work, and whether they help solve that problem the schemes are supposed to solve, or whether they might not be so effective. I'm not going to conclude on it right now, but at least I'm going to start working on the Vågeng report with an open mind and see what we can do. The goal is that the establishment and our arrangements will get people back to work, to learn Norwegian, to be integrated and to become citizens of society in line with all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e857	The only positive thing about the refugee challenge seen by the government is that the media's search light has to be moved away from a somewhat blatant handling of the labour market situation. The role of the government and the Prime Minister in meeting rising unemployment is hardly worthy of impressing so many. It's a passive role, most like a tired mother who has no more to give the unemployed than a pat on her shoulder. When the AKU work solution reached 4.5 pst. In the middle of the election campaign, the media comment was that the unemployed should not lose their courage. When VG reported on the many unemployed at Sunnmøre, the comment from the Prime Minister was: ‘My main message to all those who are now afraid of becoming unemployed is: You need it.’ We must expect something more from the Prime Minister and the Government. Norwegian working life is in an urgent period when unemployment is now rising uncontrollably and tangential to unemployment in Germany and is on the way back to the United States. In particular, the West is a hard frame. If we sit still and look at it, there is reason to fear that the situation is spreading from industry in the West to other industries and other places in the country. The representatives of the government party seem to be more concerned with the opposition's criticism of the government's work. They are indignant that no matter how many alleged actions they put into action, they are criticized by the Labour Party to make too little too late. Because at the same time we're critical of high oil money usage, we're obviously not going to have to resort to our argument. Well, it might be a hustle and bust that's well-suited to misjudge an important debate, but the government party is not able to spin away from what's its reality. We have a government that needs to be pushed into place by the Storting before she starts to care that people lose the job. Throughout 2014 and half of 2015, the review tone was that unemployment was not so closely rising, as the situation was still well compared with other countries. This summer, VG could show that the government will soon be back to work when it comes to creating new jobs in Norway. The growth rate in the economy is halved, and there are tens of thousands of unemployed people than when the government took over. The Labour Minister said to the same newspaper that there is no reason to draw a crisis picture. The Committee’s Vice-Chairman Wiborg wrote articles in Dagbladet that it is not right to give full gas even if some populist voices in the opposition ask for it. In other words, the market was supposed to settle itself, and the government should do as little as possible. But now it is not surprising that right-wing ideological market thinking is unable to overcome the increasing unemployment. On the contrary, we have not had more unemployed people in 20 years. Every time the opposition suggests grip, such as: improving the rules of placement and action against youth unemployment, the Government Party has met the measures with strong resistance and criticism. But when the government then turns, as they have done a number of times, they call the reverse operation a powerful act against increasing unemployment – proposals that aim to make it harder for those without work, which should thin those who already have it difficult. There the government shows a creativity that beats most. Workers and the unemployed need to contribute more through cuts in commuting deductions and the introduction of taxes on running fees. The unemployed are now receiving a new tax on termination benefits and increasing the quarantine period for day-to-day pay. Holiday money for the recipients of the day is too long. In total, our cut is close to 2 billion. kr to unemployed persons, since the election two years ago. At the same time, the Labour Party is responsible for not understanding the long-term challenges of conversion. It is not true, as the government party claims, that the conflict over the unemployment situation is between those who will do something in the short term and those who understand the long-term need for change. The conflict is between those who see the connection between the short-term and the long-term, that one here has to do both and then act, and those who in action reveal that they do not. It's about something so simple as that innovation doesn't just happen in garages and good rooms. Innovation takes place at the highest level in enterprises, in clusters, in daily meetings between people in the same professional environment. Therefore, it is not good conversion policy to send everything of engineers and other skilled people to Nav on the first occasion. Even if it's a lot nice to think of with two empty hands, it's not a good transition policy to just rely on it. Good migration policy is to provide a public boost to keep the professional environment intact, so that businesses can maintain their skills and keep the wheels in operation with a law of permancy that is adapted to the situation, with public missions such as a forced renewal of the ferry fleet, and with a policy towards the offshore industry that makes the oil companies use this period to study wells and carry out maintenance work that is easily pushed into more busy times. Even if I'm going to be clear enough to admit that this year's government budget is not completely up to date, the government party should be changed as a matter of priority. They should do more to cope with the situation on the labour market and to create jobs. Permitting legislation must be expanded and strengthened. The follow-up of the unemployed needs to be improved. These challenges address the Labour Party in our alternative state budget. There we propose a comprehensive action package on youth unemployment. We have strong measures against social dumping and labour market crime and several action areas. Workless pieces stick and do not let go of itself. We know that on the left hand side. When this happened in 2008, we launched a solid package of measures already after a few months. Then we got to the right of the current government party that it was too small and too late. Although the situation is somewhat different now than in 2008, it would be a good idea if the Right Party and the Advance Party could brush the dust of the speech points they used with a large pondus that time. I think it would be a more dangerous road than spending time sitting in glasshouses and throwing rocks at the opposition, when we know that there will be more unemployed every day that goes. Then I will also take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State Hauglie and wish her the best of luck. I noticed, both in the post today and in the interview yesterday, that the Council of State is busy getting more people into work, especially young people. That's very good, and we're looking forward to the right government's solutions to these challenges. In our alternative state budget, we are taking action that the state council would like to be inspired by. The Labour Party believes that young people must be given an even clearer priority in the whole Nav system. Follow-up, labour market measures and employment services must be strengthened and tailor-made in order to get young people into work. The goal must be for Nav to be able to turn them in the door. For this reason, we would like to establish a pilot scheme in the West with Nav Ung, which will target young people under the age of 30 who are neither in work nor in education. Nav Young shall have specific skills within the needs and challenges of young people in the labour market and aim to get them into work, into education, within 3 to 6 months. Through dedicated youth consultants, we will make it safe and prudent for young people to meet the Nav system. These consultants need to be more able to get through and free of action when selecting measures and using knowledge in evaluations. In addition, they shall carry out search and preventive work on further training courses. This is what we are doing as a continuation and development of the youth guarantees, the development of the youth promise we presented in the 2013 budget, which the government has little followed up on. Our youth initiative is based on the intention of the Nav reform that no one is equal. Everyone needs customisation, individual follow-up, whether it is a CV course, drug treatment, medical treatment, work training or action. The waiting times are too long today. They must be reduced. The same will have to be true for the time lag between measures. Then we've all read a new report from Fafo on the Youth Guarantees. He told of a need for a hub with specific competence in young people’s needs and challenges on the labour market. The report points out that Nav guides who have a form of youth specialisation are more satisfied with the follow-up they give to their young users. Mostly happy are those who work in youth teams. In the Labour Party, it is worth noting what is said in the report that the goal achievement of Nav’s work on youth can and should be improved. Equally important is the report’s advice on both better and more targeted actions against young people, and that organisation and leadership are crucial if this is to work. We are very many in that it makes sense to evaluate and evaluate the schemes on the basis of such a report. But we think it is a mistake to conclude by considering removing the entire Youth Guarantee Scheme, as the previous Minister of Labour opened up. Here we hope that the new government council will think differently and will follow up the youth guarantees to make them work even better, and make sure that they are realised in the county. Keeping up the voice of young people in Nav will, of course, make achieving goals worse. It becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Nav needs good framework conditions, but most of all, the department needs good and clear guidance. It will be interesting to see what the new Minister of Labour can do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e915	The government's objectives for working life are a well-functioning labour market which ensures low unemployment and high employment and not least a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for all. A work life for all requires a good and safe working environment and a serious work life without social dumping and organised labour crime. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important to ensure tripartite cooperation in the labour market because the strength of cooperation will be crucial for how we meet the challenges of Norwegian working life in 2016. An open working life with room for all is also essential for combating poverty. Thus, the main objective of the State budget is to provide the basis for new and secure jobs. The main priorities of the 2016 budget are work, activity and migration. In the autumn of 2015, Senior Policy Centres held a conference in Oslo on the seniors in Norwegian working life. One important conclusion of the conference was that a good senior policy requires a competent human resources department that has developed a targeted work plan. It is also important that responsibility for the implementation of the plan is clearly and firmly anchored in the leadership group. When the new IA agreement was signed, it contained a clear overarching objective of improving the working environment, strengthening job presence, preventing and reducing sick leave and preventing exclusion from the labour market. In order to prevent exclusion from the labour market among older workers, the competences of seniors in different workplaces need to be used more actively. Norway is facing major changes in working life in the years to come. New jobs must be created. The future's competence needs are to be met, and we are to meet the competition from other countries. In these challenging times, it is incredibly important to use the skills available at the workplace of competent older workers who want to work. We, as a nation, need to be more effective at caring for the unique skills of older workers, but at the same time we need to change our view of the seniors in the world of work. It is important to strengthen research in health and welfare services as well as to develop education in this field. Policy-driven research and knowledge-based practices provide us with knowledge of the targeting of welfare services and whether the facility should be modified. Labour and welfare management is a central tool for government in the implementation of labour and welfare policies. On 20 March 2014, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs appointed an expert group, the so-called Vågeng Committee, to review the management of labour and welfare. The Expert Group summarised its proposals for the development of the Nav Office in five main areas: move closer to the labour market and the employer more local freedom to adapt services to the needs of the user less management and more management more attention to the user and not on the system ensuring knowledge-based services and competences in response to the user All points are equally important and have the same meaning in common that the user is at the centre and that you have to have knowledge-based services. In 2016, Norwegian working life will face major challenges, and Nav will be important for meeting them. It requires that Nav employees have a high level of labour market competence and may be the link between employers and employees. At the University of Eastfold, welfare students are trained. These are students with a Bachelor's degree who give special skills in staffing and work inclusion. The knowledge of these students will be important in recruiting staff to Nav because they have the skills required by the labour market. It is said that there shall be one door into the Nav, but there must also be one door out of the Nav. Therefore, it must also be the case that employers have one person to deal with. It may not be like today that there are so many different schemes that employers do not find out. One of the most important things to be integrated into the Norwegian community is work. Work provides the opportunity to learn languages, but also to develop social relationships. Therefore, it is important to get as much work as possible as quickly as possible. The goal must be that one can live from one's own work and not be stuck in different welfare benefits. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Article 27 states that persons with disabilities are entitled to work in the same way as others. It must be an objective to use instruments that increase participation in the labour market. This can be done through the use of different follow-up and facilitation mechanisms. This is why the government’s strategy to combat crime at work is important. The crime of working life is rooted in fundamental values in our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e968	Norway is moving up on unemployment statistics. We pass countries like Germany and the United States. 127 000 people are unemployed, and I have thought that it was these people right before the elections, when the vocabulary "humans and not billions" was reversed. Few thought that it was these people, the unemployed, who were going to contribute billions of dollars to the billionaires. The Solberg government started by cutting the pay guarantee scheme as a guarantee of wages and salaries after bankruptcy, continued with holiday pay for the unemployed, and this year it extended the quarantine period and tax on termination benefits that will be the Christmas gift of the year for the unemployed – almost 2 billion. kr i cut for those who lose the job. There must be an obvious misunderstanding when more people here today say that it is better that people get to work instead of getting vacation money from the unemployment allowance. Then one says that one can take a vacation next year without getting a holiday pay, one should go without a salary in that period. Holiday money is a server. Then we hear representatives of the government and government parties being pleased that we have action arrangements now that are in line with those we had in 2013. Then unemployment was much lower. We're proposing 2,000 more places. We're changing the rules of placement so that companies can take care of their skills pending new assignments. Just recently, there has been a topic in several discussions in this room lately. We hear the government's gunmen defend themselves that we should bet on the new, on the founders, instead of keeping the employees almost trapped inside the old businesses. Yes, it is important for entrepreneurs and innovation, but it cannot be that a job in an existing enterprise has less value than that of the existing ones. It's not like there's no development in the old businesses. We can only look at the Raufoss and Kongsberg environments. Professor Salvanes at the University of Bergen shows in an article in the Evening Post in November this year that it is the old companies that are creating the most new jobs, and it is these companies that are using new technologies, creating new products and developing new business models. When it's claimed that increased perms allow people to walk with unemployment benefits for too long and reduce their own ability to get back to work, it's wrong. It is only to read the budgetary position where it is shown that a study has been carried out on all cases of leave back to 1993, and it shows that nine out of ten come back to work, eight out of ten in their own company. But a goal achievement of almost 90 pst. Not good enough for Solberg's comrades. One has to almost wonder what they really want. In the financial setting, the priorities of the Solberg comrades have been presented. There is a lot of interesting reading under the heading «Work, Activity and Conversion»: Grants to the Steinerskolan Music Line, grants to international cycling, swimming in kindergartens, conversion funds to the Norwegian Church, party support, support to the Voluntary Skyttervesen and the Maritime Church – all the good measures that we support, but to define them under the heading «Work, Activity and Conversion» shows that a lot of creativity is needed to fill the concept of «new ideas and better solutions» in the field of work. Today we have seen that Nav tracks increased leave into 2016. This is by no means surprising. More tangible measures are needed than those proposed by the Solberg comrades in the financial situation. Yesterday I registered that the new Council of State on its first working day said that her main task is to get people back to work. I want the Council of States to be very happy with both the work and the rest of her work, but then there will probably be a need for more powerful measures than the financial situation. I promise the Council of State that we will follow her job carefully to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e985	The government has provided an offensive budget for work, activity and conversion, and that is necessary. Norwegian working life faces several challenges. We have an increasing unemployment rate in oil-based industries and an oil price that has been halved in a short time. Oil production will continue to be important for Norway for very many years to come, but aid from this sector will gradually decrease. For this reason, since its accession, the government has been engaged in stimulating innovation and investing in new industries. Norway has become too dependent on oil over time, and the Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on. If we are to secure well-being, we need to strengthen our competitiveness and stimulate new growth and more value creation. Jobs must be set up in new industries that can finance our well-being. In each budget, the government has increased its commitment to knowledge, research, innovation and infrastructure since 2013. In addition, we have also reduced taxes to stimulate growth and investment. Now the oil money is spent on what they were meant to do according to the rule of action, as opposed to what was done by the previous government. Several people have to dry up their bets, take responsibility and contribute to the community and the welfare of the future, because we actually have to create before we can share. It's tough days for all those who are out on the west coast of our country, in Rogaland and in the coastal states, where the offshore industry is big. And to the Workers' Party and Fredric Holen Bjørdal: Yes, the government has two thoughts in its head and will meet this with both short-term and long-term grips. In addition to the long-term changes, which I mentioned in the introduction, the government's package of measures will amount to about 4 billion. increase activity in the short term and reduce the growth of unemployment. The government will use free hands to solve important tasks so that the unemployed get to work faster. The action package will prevent the breakage of the vacancy. The funds shall be used to reinforce efforts in the maintenance of public buildings, such as schools and care buildings, and in the upgrading of railways and roads. In addition, the funds shall contribute to the maintenance of activities in the yard industry and to the strengthening of the entrepreneurial activity. The government budget has a clear social profile with measures to combat child poverty in particular. Child poverty is a complex problem that needs an overall approach. All departments and agencies responsible for children and families need to be better coordinated in order to reduce child poverty. And in the government's strategy plan, Children living in poverty, 64 different actions are outlined in six departments' responsibilities. This is followed up by proposals for an overall increase in appropriations in different departments of 255 million. kr in the 2016 budget compared to 2015. The Government wishes to make more targeted use of the support schemes so that the schemes address children and young people with the greatest needs. Therefore, the grant scheme was changed in secondary school; the grant rate has been increased by 50 pst. and is now given only to students who come from families where the total income of mother and father is low. In the current year’s budget, the government has strengthened the offer of free core time in kindergarten to four- and five-year-olds from low-income families, and from next year this will also apply to three-year-olds. With effect from 1 May of this year, all families with less income than NOK 473 000 per year have had a reduced nursery price. In 2014, a national grant scheme against child poverty was introduced, which has been continued and strengthened. The scheme helps children and young people living in families with a weak economy to participate in leisure activities, receive support for quota and equipment, and that entire families can also have access to holiday experiences. The main means of combating child poverty and combating social exclusion is to grow up in families where one or both of the parents have income-promoting work, and here all good forces must work together. The government encourages employers to hire people with holes in the CV, give them a new chance. Work practices and work trials shall also be more common in working life, with more use of pay subsidies and closer follow-up from Nav. It has been shown to have a good effect. Making sure that more people with full or partial working skills come to work has the highest priority. It's the best thing for mom and dad, and that's the best thing for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1006	Like previous speakers, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the appointment. So to the matter. The inexhaustible budgetary process we have had this year has made the debate today a form of reprisal of those parts of the budget which require legislative changes, but it is more likely to be put to the test. The debate so far has been very much about the situation on the labour market and the incomprehensible attack by the government on the support of those who have been so unfortunate to lose their jobs. But unfortunately, it doesn't stop with it. It goes like a blue thread through the budget proposals of the Right-wing Party government this year, as last year – and the year before – that there is a big difference between the governments pushing to their breasts, and those governments are looking at as unworthy needy. The government continues to take away those who have little. The big money is spent on those who already have the most. We see it in tax policy. We see it in the social policy. We haven't seen much of the progress of the party from the time in the opposition in this period. Of course, I am thinking about the year-long demonstration proposal the last day before Christmas about Christmas in the form of a thousand extra notes to those who are recipients of social assistance. We'll see what happens tomorrow, but it doesn't happen, because the money is spent on other things, among other things. on increased pensions for married couples and cohabitants. They receive an increase in the pension of NOK 8 000 per year, regardless of their previous income. The government hopped elegantly over the lone pensioners; they got nothing. The evening item presented earlier in the fall presented an overview from the Statistical Central Bureau showing the large differences between single pensioners and pensioners' units, both in terms of income and in terms of wealth. While the average income for single pensioners after tax was NOK 194 500, it was NOK 557,000 for a pensioner's pensioner's couple, almost three times as much for the household, and NOK 84 000 more if we rain per head – but we shouldn't do that if there's people's living conditions we're busy with. Individuals also have expenses for house, electricity, license, car, municipal fees, etc., but have to pay the expenses on their own. When the majority of the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, say that slightly higher pensions for lonely are an economic attack on marriage and commitment – and the Left is involved – they turn the matter upside down completely. The basic thing in popular terms has always been that single pensioners should have a slightly higher basic pension than those who are two about the expenditure. And when the same parties claim that taking into account that lonely people don't have anyone to share their daily expenses with is an incentive to break with their life partner, you're out on the verge, which is well-known in Norwegian. I am particularly surprised that the Left is involved in such an argument, since the Left initially agreed with the opposition in this matter. But the cooperation parties also joined in the process. In a time of challenges such as lower oil revenues and increasing unemployment, the government and the majority of population choose to spend a total of 2.7 billion. kr for those who are better off than others. The working party is not in a position to spend such a large amount in such a non-comprehensive way. We'd rather give a little bit more to the pensioners who have the least of the past, the least-performing ones. They're the ones who have the most difficulty. They're not that many, so they're easier to ignore. The vast majority of them are women. Fortunately, a majority of the Stortinget agree that these also deserve our attention. I registered that the recently resigned State Council from the Advance Party on its official Facebook page tried to take credit for it, on behalf of the government, but it is therefore a slap in the ass. The lonely minimum pensioners were not in the government's mind -- they weren't in the first proposition, and they weren't in the supplementary proposition. They were the ones we in the opposition and the Left and Christian People's Party here in the Storting. Some of the government's unfair policies are thus corrected, but unfortunately the majority proposal only captures the age pensioners. The lonely performers with the minimum benefits get nothing. They only get cut, if they also have children to support. Again, fortunately, we have seen that the bulk of the population has a greater social conscience than the government, but unfortunately not enough. There is still talk of cutting the social benefits of families with poor advice and with less opportunities to influence their own situation than many other young children’s parents, and the Workers’ Party disagrees with such a down-priority of those who have the least. We have a different policy than the majority in this area. Our proposal for increased housing support and a continuation of the transport system for people with disabilities are part of that picture. Governments have a consistent line in their policies, they have to have – they have a lot to be motivated by getting more, they have little to be motivated by whips and cuts in social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1029	I first want to thank Robert Eriksson. He was in important matters in the field of work and social affairs, and he did it in a very good way. I would also like to congratulate the new Council of State, Mr Hauglie. She's a person with the right experience, high competence, strong commitment and good implementation – and I look forward to the cooperation. One of the most important things a politician lives by are ideas. If we have no ideas about how we want to improve society, make everyday life easier for people, then we don't have much to contribute. We're not the only ones who have it like that. There are a number of people who have ideas like food – newspaper commentators are one example, academics who write binding works on how society can be improved is another example. But that's a difference -- a difference that seems like they're not always aware of, but that we have to be very conscious. Our ideas have a short way to be put into life, and then it comes with responsibility. Our social profile is often attacked, most recently by the representative Christoffersen and the others from the Workers' Party in the Chamber today. But a few years ago, there was someone here on the house who had an idea. Instead of three doors to welfare management, you should have one door in. Intuitively, it sounds like a good idea, but one had to examine whether this was something that it was possible to implement in practice. The then bourgeois government did so and found that the organisational process could be so complex that new problems could arise. Then the Workers' Party started a big political game. And in 2006, we might have got the answer as to why it was like this. In an interview with Aftenposten, then Prime Minister Stoltenberg said: ‘Then there was sport in it, because Stortinget was doing it to change the government’s proposal almost for the sport’s sake. The question was not to make the proposal better or worse, but to make the most of it.’ The irony of fate was that the Workers' Party had to implement the reform. After an election campaign in which, as usual, they had attacked the social profile of the bourgeois parties, they would now start a welfare reform. And we know the results. When three Labour Ministers from the Labour Party had to meet on the Control and Constitutional Committee, it was not just because Nav’s accounts for 2008 could not be confirmed by the National Audit Office. Increased residues were also a theme, i.e. all those who did not get the help they should have. The first evaluation of the reform showed that the transition to work, education and disability was slower. Many had to wait a year for a labour market measure to get them to work. We know a lot about what happens to people who are being pushed into passivity. The distance to work is longer, and skills may be out of date. Passiveness can be harmful to health. The mood is getting worse, and maybe the depression is getting crippling – the problems are getting bigger. But the situation was not better for those who should have been dissatisfied. It began to accumulate on temporary unpaid pay. Only in 2014 did several of them get the clarification they had been waiting for, which should have come much earlier. Last evaluation of the reform came last year. The researchers concluded that you are now at about the same level of helping people out of work as you were before you started the Nav reform. And this is the red-green welfare heritage. This government has other ambitions, and the work has begun. We're cleaning up the response system. We work rights benefits to help people get back to work faster. And we've started a necessary work to fix the red-green fault grips in connection with the Nav reform. In addition, we believe it is important to use all the good forces. So social entrepreneurs are strengthened. Safety in and out of work is our goal. That is why the fight for our common working life must continue with unreserved strength. We must preserve the traditions that have made our working life possible, and we must ensure that these traditions are sustainable for the future. We do so in cooperation with the parties – responsible employers’ organisations and a trade union movement that has been a formidable force in the development of Norway. The labour and social budget is part of this overall work. In the demanding situation we are in, there is a necessary budget for work, activity and conversion. But also remember that one of the most important projects for the government, namely to preserve the well-being of future generations, is the overall one, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1056	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1059	First, I would like to say congratulations and welcome to our new Council of State. Once again, in the Progress Party, we can be happy that the government is delivering a good budget and that the Stortinget is adopting many good Progress Party matters. First and foremost, the labour and social budget is characterised by its commitment to a good and forward-looking labour market policy. Not only do we manage to adapt the budget to the current economic situation, despite half-hearted overbidden policies from parts of the opposition, but we also have small and large reforms carried out. One of the most important for the Progress Party is perhaps the reduction of curtailment to married and cohabiting pensioners – or as we say on my side of the country: there should be less discrimination against commitment. I am very happy that pensioners who continue to be married or cohabiting will retain NOK 4000 more of their own pension. This is money that they have earned themselves, and which they – of course, in my opinion – will also be allowed to keep. That's why it's incomprehensible to me that parties on the socialist side don't want this. I would also like to draw another clear progress party case from the budget we are adopting today. We make several changes to the scheme of supplementary social benefits for persons with short periods of residence in Norway. The scheme shall ensure that older immigrants, or others with little or no retirement pension, receive income from social security at the level of the minimum pension. Or to put it another way: if you come here to Norway, you get the minimum pension, even if you've only lived here for a very short time. Even this is voice in my eyes, for many of our native Norwegian pensioners are only with the minimum pension, and it is wrong whether it should be discriminated against in favour of our new countrymen. Regardless of the direction of discrimination, discrimination is and becomes a practice. A majority also supports not only being able to pick up their old parents from their country of origin and expect the state to pay. Maintenance responsibilities shall be extended. So finally, all in all, the budget is a victory for all those who are concerned about their job, and for many of those who are out of work. The unemployed and the disabled will be able to get out of work more easily, and this will benefit them, their families, employers and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1076	Our country is in a demanding period of increased unemployment. The fall in the oil price results in reduced activity in important parts of business, especially in the part of the country I come from: the West. As rapporteur in Ålesund, I am concerned that industries in the maritime sector, such as shipyards, supply industries and shipping companies, are struggling. Increasing unemployment creates insecurity among workers and businesses. The latest figures from the SSB indicate that this negative development is even faster than the government had expected. In my home country, More and Romesdal, unemployment has increased by 40 pst. the last year. Many now attend Christmas and a new year in a meeting without knowing whether they still have a job to go to in 2016. We need a more active industrial policy. It is about creating new jobs and taking good care of existing businesses and jobs. What we need is a government that is leading a policy that is ahead of us, and that is willing to take action for those who lose their jobs. In particular, it is important to prevent youth from running out. We are several who experience it so that the government has been consistently lagging behind with measures to ensure employment and growth throughout the year. Just before the election, a package of measures was announced, but it has now been severely cut. The same applies to the notified layout package. Follow-up to the maritime strategy is waiting. The main priority of the government has been tax relief, which increases the economic differences in Norway, while being financed through unsocial welfare cuts and large loans from future generations with record use of oil revenues. Tax relief has been described by economic experts as low-growth, so one can be amazed that the government does not take into account to a greater extent how little growth is generated by tax cuts. In today’s situation, it is particularly important that the permitting legislation is made more flexible and more liberal. It is the employees who are the main resources of the enterprises. The extension of the period of leave and more flexible regulation are important to help businesses maintain the necessary skills, to care for those who experience uncertainties for their jobs, and to avoid redundancies. It is for this reason that the Workers' Party has proposed the extension and strengthening of the leave arrangements. It's a shame the government parties won't support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1095	The State budget is important to correct market forces. It's more demanding times we're facing now, and thus the greater need for a power collection about the most important thing. In the draft budget of the Central Party for the Labour and Social Committee, there are two areas of serious priority. One is the disadvantaged in the labour market, where we prioritise a total of 1 356 million. Extra kroner. The second is the follow-up of laws and regulations in the workplace to counter social dumping and labour crime, where we collectively over several departments prioritise 115 million. kr. First to the many young people and the many over 55 years of age who have serious problems entering the labour market. We want to prioritise large amounts of money so that about 10,000 people will get into paid work. I repeat: about 10,000 people are going to get into paid work – 2 000 in permanently organised places of action, where we, among other things, are going to get into paid work. are able to remove the queues for diagnosed young people so that a seamless transition from school to working life, 5000 new places on a permanent grant scheme, formerly TULT, 2000 job-impaired areas and 200 million. kr to municipalities for the qualification programme. Overall, this represents a formidable effort, and I am very proud that the Centre Party has been able to prioritise these areas in the strongest way of all the big business. That, as I said, has led us to give priority to other things. But what I said in a reply to the representative Wiborg was that we can't say anything about what we want to do with the legislation on pensions to lonely and married and cohabiting pensioners later, when it comes into a new budget. So the representative misrepresented me at that point, because there's something you have to decide on in each budget. But here we are talking about the government parties and the cooperation parties prioritizing over 2 billion. kr to that scheme, which the Center Party could not afford this year. The second main area of priority is the follow-up of laws and regulations in the workplace to counter social dumping and labour-life crime. The work force, the Nav, the police and the tax department must interact. However, I would like to stress that more efficiency in this area is only possible through controlled labour immigration. That's when one takes the problems to a much greater extent at the root. In the end, since the Council of State did not respond to her agreement on changes leading to fewer permanent employment in the labour market, the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Arve Kambe, has to clarify this main point in the debate now, so that we can have predictability for business. Does the government work for more permanent employment in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1110	Several have mentioned from the pulpit here today that our country is in a special situation. Special situations require special solutions. That's how the red-green government met the financial crisis. That's not the case now. On the contrary, there is great force in today’s debate to reject precisely situation-specific solutions, such as: improving the regulatory framework, for which a very good argument has been made today. We know that the Swedish experience, Sweden has not had a code similar to ours, shows that it is not that people necessarily switch pastures – that industrial workers start with other things when there is a decline in industry. The Swedish experience shows that when people get laid off, they come back to the same industry, but then that hired temporary workers instead of as permanent employees. But the government won't meet a special situation with special solutions. More than an active industrial policy, passivity is demonstrated through business neutrality, but the market is not suitable for solving problems that market forces themselves have created. They are not, they have never been, nor will the market ever be able to. Although our country is in a special situation now, it's striking that a lot more ports are in a difficult situation every time the Right rules the country. The last one on the right had government power, unemployment was also record high, while very few new jobs were created. We often hear that it was so demanding to take over the inheritance after the red-green ones. I don't know if it can be called demanding to take over the management of a country with historically low unemployment. I don't know if it can be called demanding, but I'm convinced that there's something about the ideas that fails, the political and ideological ideas that the invisible hand of the market is going to sort out in unemployment, in class divisions, in sexual power – because it's never going to happen. It's socialist policy, it's governance, it's goal, will and action that enables us to meet the greatest challenges of our time, and then we have to have special solutions in a special situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1119	It's interesting to listen to the debate here -- everyone who says that there's a special situation we're in, that you're busy with business, and that you have to do something to prevent people from becoming unemployed. We all agree, of course. But it's a little special to listen to the representative Lise Christoffersen: the medicine for the Workers' Party is 10 billion. ............................................................................................................................................................................................... If you're struggling with the economy, maybe not new taxes and taxes are what's good medicine to solve the challenges in businesses and make sure people can have jobs instead. The rhetoric of the Workers' Party is that the government takes from the poor and gives to the rich. It is – with respect to reporting – just customs. And these so-called 2.7 billions that this government has now decided that married and cohabiting pensioners are going to have their curtailment with, apply to both rich, less rich and poor pensioners, who have different types of pensions. So they're going to have to reduce their abbreviation by 5 pst. That means that every pensioner who's married will get an abbreviation of 10 pst. And that's still going to be 20 pst. for a married couple. I think it's good that we have a government that's trying to clean up this, and that's making sure that it's now more equal treatment, but it's still 10 pst. as separators. I am pleased that the negotiations with the Left and the Christian People's Party also made sure that the minimum pensioners get an extra NOK 4000, just as married and cohabited get it. There's something the Progress Party has been busy doing for a long time, and that's why we're very happy that we're now getting to this. I also think it's a little special to hear the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and why they're so opposed to this – yes, because someone has come out better because they're two people living together. But there's no one like if you were going to get unemployed or sick, come and say, "No, you live with someone, you're married or you're living with someone, so we're subtracting 10 pst. by your wages and salaries! You don't. And that's what this is all about. This is a reworked right that the Progress Party believes you're working your way through a long life, and then you should also keep it the same way, regardless of whether you're married or lonely. I think it is strange that not even the Workers' Party sees that it is important to equalise and make sure that you get the same thing. That's what you've earned over a long life, and then you should also keep all that pension income.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1130	Perhaps the President would use a more parliamentary term than 'customs'. It was just a little advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1134	When you give billions of tax dollars to the most wealthy and take the child supplement from poor parents with the least pension, you take from the poor and give to the rich. That's the facts. Then there are several poor kids, because in the case of these parents, it's not going to happen – to say it like that – a miracle where people are cured of being poor. Unfortunately, people get sick of being poor, worrying about their kids and whether they can pay the rent. It also receives less help from this government, unfortunately, because there are many who are now falling out of the housing support system, contrary to what has been adopted. Nor will it be the right future-oriented jobs as long as we have a government paying hundreds of millions of dollars in oil research – on a polluting, mature industry that needs to be phased out – and cutting renewable industries in the wood industry. It's the wrong medicine, it's the wrong direction. It's also dangerous, because we need the jobs, and we need the renewable industry. It won't be a good job if the government doesn't pay attention to this. State councils were in their intervention in youth — she was particularly concerned with youth. Then I ask the Council of State to take an interest in the qualification programme. It was a program that would help those who were far away from work to get back into business. It's shown good results, but it's used less and less. The government is not introducing any special reinforcement in this area. It's a tool that you could use to a far greater extent than what you're doing today. That's part of the duty of activity that the government likes to talk about. SV is very much for everyone to get into activity, but there has to be someone who – to say it like that – is driving this activity in a reasonable way. Then the qualification program is a very good alternative. So until what the government and the majority now obviously have plans, namely to cut off the right to have money for food on the table. There are many families, especially refugee families. I want to warn you very strongly about this process of thinking. I know it's provocative, because in many European countries they don't have such rights as in Norway. There is one reason why it seems that many people are receiving such benefits in Norway, because there is a right here. In other countries, this responsibility is shifted to the family. This is precisely what the government and the majority are doing, with additional benefits for older people who have not earned their right to an old age pension. They used to be on social assistance. Now the government is planning not even to be able to get social assistance. This means that an enormous poverty problem for older people who are not going to get a job is invisible. And there's an SV completely disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1145	There have been several interesting contributions in a relatively predictable debate. A representative from the Workers' Party was in the package of measures presented by the government and adopted here. Interestingly, when the government presents a package of measures that is significantly larger than the Workers' Party asked, they later criticise that we have made some internal adjustments in the package of measures. Some of the governments that have invested in it are massive road and rail development and maintenance. Then some adjustments were made so that the growth within the road became somewhat smaller, and so that the growth within the railway became even larger. It is such that a work, regardless of whether a road is built or a railway, is still a work that actually has a job. It's a shame the Workers' Party chooses to make polemics out of it. The representative of the Socialist Left Party, Kirsti Bergstø, had a strange speech – if it is parliamentaryly correct to say so. She talked about temporary employment, talking about so-called freelance workers. First of all, I think it's a bad way to talk about people who've got a foot in the workplace. But what makes it even more interesting is that the representative Kirsti Bergstø – the socialist party’s big group – recently had a job advertisement out there looking for a political adviser in the fields of work, social equality and family policy, which was to cover the labour and social fraction of the Socialist Left Party. It was a temporary post of seven months, with accession on 15 January. Then it's very interesting that the representative Bergstø is talking about freelance workers, which the Socialist Left Party itself obviously chooses to hire and to look for. It's very special, to say it mildly. So the Workers' Party has talked a lot about measures. There shall be temporary measures, temporary arrangements. However, having many different measures in place in this room will help very little when the Labour Party chooses to pursue a policy that will increase unemployment in Norway, by increasing taxes and charges by 18 billion. kr for enterprises and workers, where the Workers' Party chooses to reduce the appropriations for road and rail, when they are opposed to cutting red tape. There are measures that help to increase unemployment, not to combat unemployment. In conclusion: The representative Lundtigen thought he was misquoted by the undersigned. But the representative, Lundtigen, said in line with me that he and the Central Party are opposed to using 2 billion. kr annually to reduce the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners. So that means that the Center Party wants to cut the pensions of most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1158	I registered that the representative Wiborg forgot to mention the impact of the fare on employment in his glory of his tax policy, but he could probably come back to that in a later article. Work is important for all, including those with disabilities. Therefore, it is so important that they receive an offer in different types of labour market enterprises. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we look at this work in the same way that we look at other work. Those in the labour market enterprises who need a permanent job must be seen as the labour force of all others. Therefore, we are opposed to municipalities taking over responsibility for that part of labour market policy. For this reason, we are also opposed to the need to use long-term job opportunities to address other needs in the labour market budget of the Council of State. That's why we hope that more people will be with us and say that's not how we're going to have it in the future, and we're going to agree with each other, and we're going to vote against the re-disposal mandate point 2 under III, so we're going to ensure that these funds are allocated to those who need them the most. So we've heard a government that's busy telling us that they have executive power. Two to three years ago, our government proposed that we change the activity aid scheme to include them over 26 years. Then it's interesting that we just a few days ago in this room aged the budget for this year where we took $56 million. kr from that entry. So you wouldn't have been able to organize the work so that those who need these activity aids get them. It shows that it's good that new eyes come into the department that might make this a bit more strained in the future. Then I want to tell the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud – I understand that ‘customs’ is not a proper parliamentary word to use – that there must be an obvious misunderstanding when he says that 18 billion. kr, 12 br. kr i cut in taxes on wealth goes to business. That's not right. But what has to be an obvious misunderstanding is that you cut 2 billion. kr from the unemployed, it is not to provide for those sitting at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1169	It's not all a row to get into an article in 5 minutes. I want to give a response to the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who was very concerned about the injustice of having them with one pension to cope with, has a little more to do with their living costs than those who are actually two to share the expenses, and that is very unfair according to what Mr. Bård Hoksrud says. But there's someone who the Progress Party thinks it's all right. In the case of supplementary social benefits for persons with short periods of residence in Norway, with whom the Progress Party consistently calls immigrants, but which in fact also apply to Nordics with long stays abroad, one decided a week ago to cut pensions at a lonely rate down to a low rate, even if they do not live with anyone in a cohabitation or marriage, if they have any to share with. So here's a line of reasoning around which groups you want to "please" and which groups you want to hang out. Another thing that I didn't want to mention in my first post is social security for 2015, where we really got to see how the Progress Party can get to talk with two tongues. With the blessing of the then Council of State, the party's large-scale group went into frontal attack on its own minister because the social security settlement of the year went down, and demanded that this be corrected immediately. The spokesperson of the Progress Party stood on this pulpit and said precisely that the government had to make use of the opportunity offered by the pension agreement to assess the existence of specific circumstances that might need to be taken into account and said: ‘The party to the front line is of the opinion that the country’s pensioners are now at risk of having a reduced purchasing power, to the greatest extent, a particular factor that should be taken into account.’ And there was no reservation in that statement. This is six months ago. Now the Progress Party is saying exactly the opposite. For the time being, it is uncertain whether the promise of the pensioners is being fulfilled. But I have my doubts because the Progress Party in the budget supports something that may look like a technical thing, but which is linked to the break promises of the Progress Party from social security for 2015. The Progress Party believes that it is no longer necessary to set aside a pot for additional costs in future social security settlements because they are only to be indexed. The Pensioners' Association asked us to keep the possibility that the discussion institute is actually real. That's what the Progress Party is now saying no. So the leftover impression is not in line with the reality of the Progress Party and the concern for the country's pensioners, and that was exactly what the Progress Party wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1185	At the end of the debate, it is interesting to follow the government parties, who have virtually all their posts repeated the need for work, activity and conversion, with actions that work, that create new jobs, and that create lasting jobs. We presented a package of measures that, in the context of the state budget, is praised by all the social partners that there were enough action places – twice as many action places as the Workers' Party proposed in the election campaign, action places that we have commented on in the 2016 budget that one expects Nav to actually be able to use up, because they have not been able to use them up in 2015. So we have more than enough action spaces, and the revised budget is coming. We are following that development closely. In addition, we have amended the legislation on permitting a few months ago and now have 30 weeks of leave. That's the full possibility of having. So the representative Lundtigen Right asks: is it so that we are for fixed employment as a general rule? Yes, of course. It is even stated in the Working Environment Act adopted in the United Kingdom for a few months ago that fixed employment is the general rule, and it is actually something that most enterprises also want, whether they are state-owned or public, because they want stable labour. They start jobs, start businesses because they want to fill some needs, and then they also need stable labour. So fixed labour and fixed employment are the general rule, and we want that to be the general rule. Kirsti Bergstø makes a strange attempt at history story from the period 2001–2005, the last time we were in government. As the years went by, the time off went down. The measures worked, the government did a number of things, so much so that the Chief Editor of the Workers' Party, Arne Strand, said the first day at work for the new red-green government: you come to the covered table. It was the reality when the red-greens started their work in 2005, and our reality was that the work on activity and conversion was not even planned during the eight years of red-green government. That's why we've done it. Maritime strategy is now coming for coastal shipping in Norway. Around Easter times, or before Easter, when ESA has approved it, it comes for the offshore sector, and it also comes for Kiel ferga and Color Line. So the maritime strategy is about to do that, and last week, as I mentioned in my main post, I was witnessing eleven flags from foreign flags to Norwegian flags only in Windfjord and Haugesund, and in addition it happens in Hordaland and More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1201	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1204	I have a small reply to Mr Wiborg's representative. SV is not against the temporary nature of work, such as temporary project work, or vikariat, e.g. for staff on parental leave is temporary. We think it is gratifying that these are such schemes. What we are opposed to is general access to temporary employment. I would encourage the representative Wiborg to actually read the Working Environment Act, which his party is going in the rush to rage. The question is, is it a practice to call temporary workers? You might have different opinions about that. For my part, I think it's tough to knock people down -- not to point out that someone's been shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1211	First of all, this fairy tale that tax havens are going to create jobs. To put it like that, there's no economic theory that says it happens like that. What we know is that when you make life harder for those who have a hard time carrying from before, there are several of them who are being excluded. We also know a lot about that, and unfortunately, that's what the government is doing. The representative, Mr. Kambe, was up and said that nothing had been done about activity when you were in government. Yes, we adopted, for example. The qualification programme, which is a very important scheme, and which research shows works well, but this government does not insist on it. It's also about giving real opportunities to those sitting at the bottom of the table, and it doesn't like this government. We turned the social benefits into lonely caregivers, so it was possible to have a safe social benefit at the bottom while qualifying for a job where it was possible to support a family if you were lonely. It works. Research shows that it works. It doesn't want this government, and it's targeted attacks on the families that Nav says have 3.5 times the risk of becoming poor – and there's children in these families. There is a lot to do for poor children's families, but this government and these majority parties unfortunately have a lot on the conscience that is not good. Finally, I have an appeal to the Council of State. Permanently arranged work spoke to the representative Dag Terje Andersen about up here instead. It fulfils Norway’s obligations under the UN Convention on Disability, that they should not be discriminated against in respect of State labour market policies. The government is playing with a proposal to remove this one group from the government labour market policy, i.e. to discriminate against a group, and to transfer this responsibility to the municipalities. These are companies that provide decent, great, skilled and good work, very good companies in the community. Not least these are jobs that provide people with e.g.: developmental disability, a safe workplace, where they can use their capabilities and resources. This is a system that has worked well. If this is removed from the government labour market policy, it is discrimination. If the council doesn't believe me, she can talk to her party colleague, Victor Norman, who fully agrees with SV in this case. There is no good reason to remove permanent, organised work from government labour market policies. The State shall be involved and contribute in the future, and there is not one group to be removed and not part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1220	The representative, Karin Andersen, says that there is no problem in applying taxes on wealth and other taxes to business, but it's actually that if you do things too heavy for business, when you have a limit, and then you end up cutting down, because you can't create jobs or keep living in the jobs you have. That is why it is important to take care of taxes and taxes, because it is actually also about maintaining jobs and creating new jobs – which I feel is definitely not a concern when you think it is so easy to tax and tax the business in the way that SV wants. When I hear the representative from the Workers' Party, Lise Christoffersen, it sounds as if property tax is such a simple thing, and that it doesn't matter to the business community. In my county we have a pretty big company, which for some years went quite poorly, but it had large premises and a lot of production equipment that cost a lot of money. That means you have to pay taxes. When you don't make money, but you go with a deficit and in addition you have to pay taxes on something you can't take out, it's not as easy as it might be for the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, who has money on book, which allows him to take off the money from the bank and pay. So these have machines that they can't sell, and if you don't sell machines, you have to borrow. And if you don't get a loan, you can't pay your property tax. That's what it's all about for business. I find it sad that many try to pretend that property taxes only affect those who are rich and have a lot of money and cash. There are many who are rich in values, but it's not as easy to put the values and production equipment into circulation all the time. Therefore, this government is also concerned about doing something about taxes and taxes. From the Workers' Party, it's a clear yes. That's about what I'm talking about. 550 000–600 000 married and cohabiting Norwegian pensioners that if there is a different government, the reduction in the curtailment introduced by this government may be expected to be reversed. I don't think the Workers' Party dares do that, because the pensioners are quite a lot. Since the last time the Progress Party got a government to reduce the abbreviation from 20 pst. to 15 pst. – it’s been quite many years since – I have registered that the Workers’ Party has not dared to do anything about it. So they might not do it now either, to the joy of the retired. As I said, instead, it was wrong for us to say that we took credit for the increase to the minimum pensioners, but now it is all of a sudden right for us to take credit for the fare, which the Progress Party has of course been against, but which has become through agreement with two other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1231	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1235	My question to the representative Kambe was whether or not the Right agrees with changes that lead to more temporary employment. That was the question. Further: The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, is very modest and will not give the government credit for a weakening of the principle of ability in taxation. I believe that one should be honest with it and say that it is the Right Brand that tax should have a smaller position in the future according to its ability. Differences are increasing, not least as a result of changes in working life with more temporary employment and more temporary employment agencies. The representative of Hoksrud must take this on board. There will be more demanding times. The principle of agility must be further developed. I see the chairman of the finance committee has arrived, and I am very concerned that the Christian People's Party, which has a key role in this area, signals whether agility should be the mark in the demanding time we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1244	The representative, Karin Andersen, says that the bulk of the population now has a lot on their conscience -- a lot that's not good -- and proudly mentions things that got started under the previous government. She's trying to represent it as if we were, for example, is against the transitional benefit, as if we do not have transitional benefit in Norway anymore after the decision we made in the United Kingdom in ours. That's wrong. We've further improved the transition aid so that it can help people get to work faster. But if we're going to talk about what different parties and what different large-scale numbers have on the conscience, it's completely impossible to get past the red-green government's implementation of the Nav reform. It wasn't successful. It's really something I'm glad we don't have the conscience. The transition to work was slower. The transition to education was slower. The transition to disability for those who needed disability was slower. It went so wrong that there had to be a control hearing. Nav's 2008 accounts of about 300 billion. kr could not be confirmed by the Riksrevisionen. People didn't get the help they were supposed to have when they wanted it. That's what the red-green parties have on their conscience. Then they attack our social commitment when they have this on their conscience itself! It seems completely strange, to put it straight out. I hope I'm still in parliamentary form. Now we're going to stick out the way. We lower the thresholds into the working world for those who are outside. I find it strange that the representative Lundtigen asks again and again if there are changes in temporary employment. Yes, we have adopted changes in temporary employment, because we believe that it lowers the threshold into working life. We're clearing up the action system in Nav. We work with benefits, we pay for the red-green faults, and we pave the way for Nav. That responsibility takes this majority, and because we take it, we have a pretty good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1253	The formulations were clear within.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1256	It was Karin Andersen's speech that made me object. I think it's kind of silly to sit here and listen to the statement that today's government doesn't like to support and help people sitting at the bottom of the table. I have to say, it's a lousy thing to listen to, and I don't recognize myself in that statement. I think we who sit on the Stortinget have a common goal. We want to help people sitting at the bottom of the table. I think we all have that goal. But we have different approaches. We use different tools, and we go different ways. We actually have to respect each other. This government is pursuing a policy that wants to facilitate people's exit from poverty. I have outlined in previous articles that we have many different measures that we believe in, and that will lead to people getting better at themselves and getting out of poverty. We clean up the action systems in Nav to make them work better. We believe that. As a nurse, I have learned in my education that the most important thing we can do is to help people do their own thing. This government is pursuing a policy that has the aim in mind. We want to facilitate so that people can regain the ability to manage themselves, get into work and take care of themselves in their own lives. Those who don't do it, we have a good safety net for, and of course we're going to help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1267	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1270	To Bård Hoksrud: Yes, the Workers' Party knows that the vast majority of the almost 900,000 old-age pensioners are cohabitants or couples, but that is not what governs the Labour Party's policy. We're assuming what's just for the individual. So to the lazy ones, who we haven't had time to say so much about, who are no longer called pensioners, but who for many are in the same situation as the old age pensioners, because it's the Storting that decides what they're going to have to live on. The Labour Party has repeatedly asked the government, even now in the context of the budget, to review the reform in order to capture those who have accidentally been reduced. Today, too, we are being discouraged. Government lots have somehow been able to define them as unworthy of the group. We do not understand what the bad people have done that deserves this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1277	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1280	I have said this before: we can pave the way from here up to the Castle with research that shows that people get sick of being poor and getting taken away from benefits when they don't have a job, and are so sick that they can't get a job. That's what the government is doing for families with children who are in such a situation. On the other hand, people with difficult assets get heavy taxes, and people who inherit – it's not the line of work that applies here, it's the line of inheritance that applies to this government. And then you have good advice, because the rich are motivated by getting more money, while the poor are motivated by becoming poor. If you are concerned about recovering the ability to get into work, you need to support those who are in a difficult situation. When we point out that you're actually taking away the poor, you have to realize – to say it like that – that's what you're doing. And it doesn't work, it creates poverty, it creates unhealthy lives, and fewer come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1287	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1290	Then I register that for Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party, justice is to take from married and cohabiting 15 p.m. of the pension they have worked and worn for for many years in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1295	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1299	The representative, Karin Andersen, said that you get sick with little money. That is something the Progress Party fully agrees with. And then it's very strange that the same representative wants to get rid of the country's married and cohabiting pensioners $8,000 a year, but it might be related to the fact that Kirsti Bergstø's representative has been ready to cut pensions is a good distribution policy. There is something the Progress Party disagrees with, and fortunately the Progress Party is in the majority in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1304	I hope we're now approaching the end of what I want to say is a bit of a jumpy debate, but which has nevertheless produced some clear dividing lines. There has been a round of temporary employment, and it is traditional. Kirsti Bergstø is accused of doing something other than what she says, when someone announces temporary posts in SV. It's unprofessional. Everyone knows that everyone is because in temporary jobs a temporary employee can be employed. There is no one who has ever said anything else. What we're opposed to is that there should be general access to temporary employment without being a temporary position. When we are, it's because everyone warns against it. Governments and government parties were warned by the Labour Inspectorate, the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work and the Petroleum Authority, and it is documented in OECD reports that there are no more jobs; it is just that several of the jobs become temporary. It's the facts that lie at the heart of it. The experience from Sweden shows exactly the same thing. So there won't be a lower threshold in the workplace – no then – but there will be a lower threshold out of the workplace, because you can only get out for no reason, which you have to have if you're an employee. So to tax, which has also been brought up. It is the government's main response to unemployment. The OECD has also said something about the increased disparities and the resulting loss of productivity. So the Scheel Committee has said that it is better to bet on residence taxes than on source taxes. And then the Menon report to the government has said that of the relief of tax types, wealth tax is the least effective if you get an activity increase. But anyway, the government does. No, we are not proposing a dramatic increase in taxation. We even suggest lowering corporate tax. We did that when we were in government, and now we are. But we're going to go against the tax breaks, because we know it doesn't work, and because we're busy with employment and unemployment. And then we're busy taking 2 billion. NOK directly out of the pockets of the unemployed. It is not a question of whether we agree that the unemployed should preferably get to work – everyone agrees. But we ask the question, why in the world are we going to plague people who have lost their jobs with losing their finances? So the differences are so obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1315	The representative Arve Kambe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1318	I'm just going to pick up some of the claims that are coming. What we do when it comes to pension settlement is to move the money from the miscellaneous item to a regular item. It's not to input it as part of a paycheck or other things. It's the same way as when the state makes the state budget, you put in a forecast for future projected wage growth in the state and municipality, you do the same with sick leave, you do the same with interest, etc. That's part of the forecast. When the pension settlement comes, it is not affected at all by it. In the case of temporary workers, the whole point is that after eight red-green years, very many young people, very many immigrants and very many people with reduced working capacity stood far outside of Norwegian working life. We offer them: it is better with a full-wage temporary job than temporary half-wage Nav actions, which are the real red-green alternatives, while creating more jobs and strengthening the Nav actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1327	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1341	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1348	For the Workers' Party, it is a fundamental value in any society that those who live there should experience security. For us, it's about having a job to go to, about participation and about belonging to a community. It is also about social security and preparedness for people to experience security of life, health and important values – security for working well to prevent incidents and for serious incidents to occur, the country has the necessary preparedness to deal with the situation. We live in a troubled time. Climate change creates unstable housing conditions. Someone's losing the whole country. In Norway, many homes are lost, and job entry is reduced and the outside world is reduced. Flood and race create insecurity. The inhabitants of Feda and Vikeså have experienced it this winter. War, hunger, poverty, distress and environmental disasters are moving large masses of people, including in our time. At times of alarm, many conditions affect the security we experience. The words we use, the conflicts we create, and the political choices we make help to increase or reduce the security of individuals, and society as a whole creates. The stage carpet behind today's Europe is serious. Islamists and right-wing extremists reflect in each other's attacks on our values, such as freedom of speech and democracy. In his statement on the refugee situation of the Stortinget, the Prime Minister said: ‘The increased influx of asylum is primarily considered to have a negative impact on the threat picture related to the external right environment in Norway. Resistance to immigration is an important mobilising factor for this environment.» If we are to be better equipped to face a new terrorist attack or other serious incidents on Norwegian soil, we must take the great grips that really strengthen the country's handling capacity in the event of a serious national crisis. It is striking how the Minister of Justice and Security's focus on preparedness seems to have been reduced to just one question: the need for permanently armed police. The government says little about what really matters to the security and preparedness of this country. When a crisis arises, it shall be managed quickly and efficiently, with good competence at all levels. It is therefore necessary to focus on national crisis management. People should know that they get help when they need it, whether they live in Flekkefjord or in Hammerfest. Emergency actors must be given the opportunity to practice more, and to practice more together, so that they are ready for the day they are needed. Work on strengthening preparedness in Norway is without progress. The concrete measures to strengthen preparedness are lacking, despite the fact that the government is now presenting its third budget. Still, the national emergency centre is in blue. Nor does the Minister of Justice and Security seem to see the need for a national scalable operating centre, despite clear recommendations after 22 July. Nor is there any commitment to the establishment of regional training centres. The Workers' Party takes note that the government stopped the decision to build an emergency centre on Alnabru, despite the fact that the government itself writes that it was possible to build there. That it won't be Alnabru's worry anyway. What gives cause for concern is that the Emergency Response Centre is constantly being pushed on. Now it's been two years. We don't have time to wait any longer. Now there must be political action. We need to know where to stand, and we need to know when to finish, so that the police's sharpest end can train more on the sharpest missions. It is not yet clear how national crises should be managed, who should be the operational leader of an event where there are several places in the country at the same time. The Minister of Justice and Preparedness should be more concerned with national crisis management than with what we see in this budget. As we now see, there is evidence of a government that does not want to give priority to the major preparedness concepts that Norway needs. The Labour Party is putting action behind the words and delivering in all areas of our draft budget. Our alternative prioritizes preparedness and security. We allocate funds to national scalable operating centres and regional practice centres. We also prioritise the urgent security measures at Oslo District Court, and we are clear on the need for a prioritisation of the Emergency Centre. I will finally address our proposals in the vote and will also signal that we are going to vote for II-XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1379	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1382	The back of this budget is more dramatic than we would have liked. The oil price has been more than half since last year's harvest. The availability is increasing. We're going to deal with a record high influx of refugees. The security policy situation in Europe has changed significantly since the spring of last year — and worse. We see attacks and threats from groups that will split, spread hatred and fear. The international landscape is constantly changing — economically and safely. This directly addresses the tasks and challenges of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry shall ensure the security of society in calm and troubled times. The field of justice will be strengthened by 1.1 billion. kr in fresh funds from the government, plus over 360 million. to strengthen the police and the PST in the additional number on increased asylum arrivals. In addition, the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties contains more than 70 million bets. kr within the budget chapters of the Judicial Committee. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, therefore provides a good basis for safe governance in a demanding time. For the Right, a secure society – young and elderly, day and night – is a very important political value, a society in which we are clear and consistent in the fight against crime. Visible and present police and good preparedness are important for the security of society. With this budget, we have created over 1,000 new police posts since the government change. The police coverage per 1000 population is on its way up. The percentage of clearance has increased markedly since the government change. The close police reform will be implemented from 1 January 2016. This is the biggest change in the Norwegian police in recent times. At the same time, police staff are increasing and the renewal of the ICT systems of the police is escalating. This will make the police better able to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts while at the same time increasing the proximity of the police and ensuring more visible police where people live. A broad majority in the UK has formulated a demanding and necessary expectation of the outcome of the near-police reform. The budget follows up on this. At the same time, the Storting will closely monitor the progress of the reform and the achievement of its objectives. Strengthening police staff also leads to an increase in the number of criminal cases in the courts. We have received clear signals from the Court of Justice administration about the need for an increase in the number of judicial years. The Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties have therefore increased the budget of the Courts by 10 million. D during the Committee's proceedings. In the same way as in the courts, strengthening the police will lead to a greater need for custody and redress. For too long, the criminal justice chain has been down-prioritised, and the settlement queues have increased. At the government change, the paycheck was over 1,200 judges. The government's goal-conscious work is producing results, now the pay queue is almost halved. The government has increased the settlement capacity within existing prisons, has used 242 settlements in the Netherlands and establishes in Appendix 181 places at the Eidsberg prisons and at Ullersmo. The process of establishing additional settlement capacity in Norway is well under way. Therefore, it is alarming that the Workers' Party in its budget puts in place an increase in settlement queues, with the human and social costs involved. The working party will complete the 242 seats in the Netherlands without any domestic capacity to receive the prisoners. Setting up new places takes a long time. The result is that the housing queues increase with the Workers' Party. This is a budget for security. It'll strengthen the police. At the same time, it reinforces the efforts in the field of justice for vulnerable groups with special needs, especially children. The fight against crime at work and organised crime is intensified. It corrects large portions of the heavy inheritance after the red-greens in the form of low police coverage, maintenance kits in criminal care, and rescue cows. This is a budget that makes it even safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1408	It is a good budget for justice The Stortinget today is going to adopt. It's a record bet on the police, it's a record bet on our courts, and it's actually a record bet on our criminal custody and our preparedness. This government and this majority, four parties, have deliberately invested in this sector in their three government budgets – and are following up this year's budget with the budget we are adopting for next year. At least I'm glad, and I also think a lot of others, that we've had a huge investment in getting more years' work in the police. Also next year, 350 new police officers are added. In other words, with the three budgets for which this majority is responsible, there will be over 1,000 new police officers to look after us, to investigate, to follow up enquiries from the audience and to ensure that we get a police service that is far better than the one you took a couple of years ago. This has been done to achieve the objectives of the Stortinget report that the police coverage in Norway has been linked. This government and this majority have also made clear plans to do something about the situation of our prisons and prisoners. When we took over two years ago, the government that went off had zero visions of how to deal with the growing prison queue. Reportedly, some suggestions were made to build prisons in the South without a single penny being presented to that prison. That's the only answer you got when you were wondering what to do with the 1,200-1,300 people who were in prison queues. This government and this majority have made sure that the number in prison queues is falling rapidly. We are getting away from prison queues, we have got hundreds of new prison sites, we have put forward very concrete proposals on the construction of new prisons, and we have put forward proposals to grant money for the development of new prisons – among others. with the extension as the previous representative referred to, by Ullersmo in prison and Indre Østfold in prison, Eidsberg. We have put forward liberal budgets for preparedness. The situation we are today really shows the need to do something with a view to being prepared – unfortunately – that the worst can happen. Today's situation is that we're in a much better position to deal with serious situations than you were just a few years ago. I'm proud that we've delivered. In connection with the work at Stortinget, there have been budgetary negotiations in the Financial Committee, which affect the Justice budget, and in the Justice Committee, which also affects the budget. Let me thank all four cooperation parties for a good dialogue for making a good justice budget from the government even a little bit better. It is gratifying that through the budgetary conciliation we have in the Committee on Justice, which is the majority of today's vote, we have been presented with proposals for further strengthening of the courts. It is important that the criminal justice chain is in place with regard to both the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. We'll do something about that through this setting. We've also added up to some other important things. The budgetary agreement in the Financial Committee provides for more money to be allocated to children's homes, including: the establishment of a new children's home, which the Judicial Committee has said, shall be placed in my home country, Eastfold. I'm glad you'll get it in place next year. It is important for those children who really need this offer. We have also been very clear, in cooperation between all four parties and in our remarks, that we should earmark more jobs in Kripos in order to be able to go after attackers against children online. The fact that Kripos is able to handle it is important. As we have made clear in the vote, the majority also have some expectations for the government towards the revised budget – at least on which the Progress Party must be quite clear, also internally: it is expected that this will be followed up in order to achieve further strengthening, among other things. by the courts, and may initiate a project for a new district court in the Drammen. It's some of the stuff that's inside. In conclusion, I am very pleased that, with this budget and the budgetary agreement with the four parties, we are ensuring an increased focus on legal certainty, namely that we are finally starting a test project on sound and image in Norwegian courts. It's something that a total mass has been talking about for many years, and that we're now starting a job with. I am incredibly proud of that, and this will be the biggest legal security reform in many, many years here in Norway. I'm very happy that the four parties that work together have got money to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1427	After today's long debate on the budget of the Labour and Social Committee, it is appropriate to move on to the Justice Committee. I think it's a reminder of all of the other important areas that Stortinget is working on to prevent one from ending up in the justice sector, either with the police, court or criminal justice. Prevention is one of the most important things we do to ensure that people, especially young people, avoid getting into a criminal racetrack. Prevention is the key to building a rapprochement plan to combat violence against children so that more people can grow up safely. We know that this is very important for the individual, and that means a lot to society. That is why I am pleased that today's budget that is being adopted represents an enormous strengthening of the legal certainty of children. Children's houses are strengthened by 83 million. NOK 90 million. NOK 173 million. kr in 2016. It's a great strength. I thank the majority for getting it done. This means that the enormous growth in the number of interrogations and in the number of issues related to violence against children will be easier to deal with for the police and children's homes. As the representative of Leirstein said, the creation of a children's house in Eastern police districts in Eastfold will help to relieve the enormous burden that has been placed on the Children's House in Oslo. That's very good. In addition, we are happy with the efforts we are now making, by giving more money to Kripos to fight online abuse. This is a demanding time of increased unrest and terror. That's why there's important stakes on PST, 135 million. There is a great deal to be done, and 350 new posts in the police force, a total of 1 000 only in the three budgets where the majority has had their hands on the steering wheel. But we must not forget the terror of every single violent case, killing, etc. is for individuals. That is why I am pleased with the near-police reform that will contribute to a better police, more visible police and more present police whenever you need it, no matter where it is in the country. I am also pleased that we have so clearly stated that the fight against trafficking in human beings should be increased, both through the reform of the police and not least in the position today. Here it is stated that the success model from the Hordaland Police District, where a dedicated team has worked to combat trafficking in human beings and revealed half of the issues related to trafficking in human beings in Norway, is to be copied in each of the new police districts. I think it's incredibly good. When we also include the debates we have had in the last few weeks in the United Kingdom on measures to combat trafficking in human beings, and the announced action plan, the effort is at least much better. Finally, this is done. After several years of saying great words about combating trafficking in human beings, important decisions are now being taken and important measures are being implemented. We are also pleased that we have received additional funds for the courts, both now, on which the representative, Mr Leirstein, was involved, and in what the committee is asking for, to be revised. I think the project with audio and image is extremely important. There are perhaps several people who have heard the podcast to the VG lately, where you can hear private recordings from the Birgitte Tengs case. It is quite fascinating from a legal certainty perspective to think that there is no sound recording even in Norwegian courts. We hope to be able to help that happen. We're also proud of what's happening in criminal matters. Eidsberg and Ullersmo shall be extended by nearly 200 places. We have a huge bet with multiple bet places, 240 places in the Netherlands. The size gets a construction plan next spring. It'll be exciting and important to make sure that we have enough shelters, both to get away from anyone who needs care, and that we've been in, to avoid a breach by someone sitting too long on a smooth cell. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we received money from the Office for the Compensation of Victims. It helps to end the criminal chain by ensuring the best possible care for the victims. I am also pleased that a joint committee says that it should be committed to non-governmental organisations. The majority stress that it is important in terms of criminal care, legal assistance, etc., and that they are awarded longer contracts. We think that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1446	The state budget is large and can appear to be inconspicuous, but the state budget is policy on its most concrete. In the justice field, the Justice budget for the next year is exactly the place we can look for to find out how the different parties prioritize, what kind of policies they pursue if they are in multiples, or what kind of parties are in minority – what kind of policies they would have pursued if they had power. We in the Center Party differ from the other parties in how we give special priority to areas related to geographical and social distribution. When we see that the police districts around are struggling to get enough people to the cannon offices, our solution is not to put these offices down, but to strengthen the district police. So we've added 200 million. kr targeted for this purpose in 2016 in order to increase staffing, invest in better material and shorten response time. When the courts are pressed by the centralizer of the government party, our answer is not to pass on to the dogma that greater is better. Rather, we point out that a new round of restructuring in the courts is not up to date. We believe it is important for the courts to be able to keep the case resolution scale, and therefore strengthen the courts with new jurisdictions. The centre party has been busy in several budgetary rounds working on audio and video recording in all Norwegian courts, and it is good that a trial project is now finally being launched, but I would like to stress that the ambition must be that all Norwegian courts have such equipment. This is about legal certainty for both the defendant and the offended, and it doesn't seem to honor our legal system that we don't have such equipment in place. We are also concerned with the land change courts, with the need for means of competence to introduce new law, and that the pay gap between land change judges and district courts should be closed by 2017. When it comes to criminal services, the Central Party also has a different approach here than part of the other parties. We mean that small prisons contribute a lot to a lot of good, and they don't want a development where you put down a lot of smaller prisons to bet on large prisons. The prison department at Kleivgrend in Telemark and on the island of Slide Island in West Oppland are good examples. From our side, it's not just good words, but also that we want to spend money on them. When we point out where we can expand the number of prisons, we have put money into our alternative state budget into Hustad Prison and Vik Prison. New prisons are also important to get in place, and we think it needs to start building in Agder, Ålesund and the Mosjö. In addition to large, heavy budget lines such as police, courts and criminal justice, it is important to value the efforts of voluntary organisations. We give to different organizations, throw off in many cases, whether it's the Red Cross, the People's Aid, the Wayback, the Right, the Fangers' Association, or others we're talking about. More money for such organisations is also a matter for the Centre Party, as well as more careful support. That is the third time that this Judicial Committee has presented its budgetary position to the Storting during this period. I myself have been at Stortinget – first as a long-term alternate representative and later as a permanent member – much of the time since November 2006. What I've observed in all these years is that many people will do a lot of good, work a lot and stand by. What I've also seen is that it's a potential for improvement. There's someone who said, "You're not a fool because you've done something stupid -- only if you don't understand how stupid it was. I sometimes think that when we humans do wrong, either as individuals or as politicians, we can see how stupid it was inside of us, but we think we're fooling ourselves more if we admit it. If the policy is to take the lead in the future, we are, in fact, dependent on politicians admitting it when we have taken wrong decisions. I think an example of such a mistake is the lease agreement on prison places in the Netherlands, which the government has concluded with the support of the Christian People's Party. There we now see that one has to resort to forced dispatch also by Norwegian citizens to fill up the places. The pads are expensive, and one takes money from what could have been a bigger bet in Norway. The center party agrees that we need more closed prisons, but we're not a few with the government in that these places were to be created abroad. I've already learned where we would have expanded the number in places, and where we think new prisons should be built first. I am excited to see how quickly the government can start building new prisons in Agder at first, and hope they are as eager in this process as they have been in the process of concluding an agreement in the Netherlands. Finally, I would like to take up the proposals of the Central Party and inform them that we will vote in favour of the Roma speech proposals II-XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1472	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1475	The Ministry of Justice is not exactly known for being the department most devoted to research and development. That's why I'm very happy that the Left and Christian People's Party, through the budgetary agreement with the government parties, got $5 million in place. The Ministry of Justice's budget for the Centre for Cyber and Information Security at the University of Gjøvik. It's a good professional environment and an important bet. Another thing we in the Left are very pleased with in the budget agreement is that there is going to be a new unit of animal police in Rogaland. Crime against animals is a serious crime which should and must be followed up by the police. By creating a separate unit, it will be easier to have the level of awareness of this type of crime. I think the new South-West police district is a well-suited district to make such an effort. It's not just because I'm from Rogaland myself, but there's a lot of animals in Rogaland. It's a big farm country, with a lot of farmed animals. There are also some people living there with pets. So I think it is very good for a good dialogue with other important actors, such as the Commission. Food surveillance, in Rogaland. I think it can be a success. The Committee's decision refers to the government's investigation of two levels of criminal law. A majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, writes that they believe that today's model with three levels is working well, and that they do not see that such reorganisation will necessarily lead to a saving of between 30 million. NOK 40 million. kr, as the government sees fit. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights does not now have the Left. But if we were on the committee, we'd be behind the majority's comment on this matter. For my part, I would like to add that there is no automatic mechanism in the fact that centralisation means that criminal justice is getting better. After examination in the Committee, it is reasonably clear that there is no strong desire for a major change in the legal structure. I think it makes sense not to make big changes here at this point in time. There is a lot to be done in that sector in the future, both with the implementation of the near-police reform and with an prosecution reform, which can have a major impact on the judicial structure. But that's how we can't rule out reasonable aggregations in the future. In this round, in this budget, there is a special reference to North Hordland district and Bergen district, which is already located in the same building today. It points to Eiker, Modum and Sigdal districts and Kongsberg districts, which continue with offices both in Hokksund and on Kongsberg. If, in the future, there are other tracts where there is agreement on local and good processes, and you find that aggregation makes sense, I don't think we should rule it out. But some large-scale structural change doesn't look like the Left either. Finally, I would like to express my support for the majority of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which refers to the Kalfarhuset in Bergen and the job done there for people who are either in restitution or who have the son. The Left also supports the proposal that the legislation on leave should be practised in a way that does not impair the individual’s ability to be rehabilitated under the auspices of non-governmental organisations. The left has not even promoted any loose proposals in this matter, but we want to support proposal No. 27 by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, to ask the Government to propose different models for annual discussions between the State and the Association of Advocates in setting the public salary rate. It is my particular impression that the Association of Lawyers is not satisfied with the way today's model has been practiced – firstly, that there is no real dialogue around the salary rate, and secondly, that it is too low and not in line with the expected growth. So there might be reason to think about this again. We will also support proposal No. 18, on the conclusion of the agreement with the Netherlands. The left, as you know, has voted against the Netherlands agreement, and it is therefore natural for us to support a proposal that sets out to phase out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1494	2015 was in many ways the years of crisis – global crises, which in different ways had direct and indirect consequences for Norway. The long-standing global refugee crisis was a European refugee crisis, because we got a very rapid increase in the number of asylum seekers and refugees coming to Europe, and it also marks one here in Norway. The long-standing threat – perhaps a crisis – from global jihadist terror, for example. ISIL, not least against France, but came to us indirectly, also through the armed use of the police and a larger threat picture here in Norway – again, unfortunately, one must say. These are serious challenges that are going to be with Norway in so many ways, I want to say wide across society. Several refugees and immigrants have an impact on education and the labour market, not least on our municipalities. The threat of terrorism has an impact on the entire justice sector, the police force, emergency services and others. Equally full, even so serious, the challenges are: whether you are a child, a woman or a man, the risk of being surrounded by power from one close to you is so much greater than the risk of becoming the frame of terror in most places in the world, for example. in Norway. While the number of killings — as cruel and serious crime as it is — has been halved in relatively few years, the picture of the magnitude of the problem of violence against children has been a massive social problem, as a public health problem and as a cruel destruction of life for very many people, children who grow up, in their full breadth have appeared to us in the last few years, even though the problem has been as great in the past. This is what has been behind SV's draft budget, which we have presented to the justice sector in the past, that people in everyday life should be safer from what, to a great extent, sustains their lives and the ability to grow up and live a good life in the future – and today. This resulted in a strong commitment to the fight against, and to the prevention and investigation of, violence against children and a strong commitment to the fight against, and to the prevention, investigation and resolution of electoral problems — another huge social problem. We need to strengthen the police in those areas, too, where we know that there is a lot to do, but also what is not the direct budget for justice, but which is related to society else, how society as a whole needs to prevent and manage the serious crime that this is all about. At the same time, it is very well founded on the strengthening of the police carried out by the previous government, and as the current government does, as SV stands behind it, both before and now. It's necessary and good reason. The same is true in the face of the increased terrorist threat we see, a strengthening of not only the PST, but of how we gather to work towards radicalisation, better prevent and prevent us from working against the terrorist threat also through intelligence and surveillance. It is a necessary part of a commitment, which is also in our budget, to strengthen criminal services and to get a faster rate of expansion when it comes to the number of prisons, because it is important in itself, and because it is an important part of preventing future crime to have even better criminal care than what we have today. And then finally I'm just going to pick up two more things. One is that if SV was on the Judicial Committee, we would have supported the comment on criminal services, that it does not in itself strengthen the criminal service to centralize her, as the representative Nybø called from the pulpit here. We're not in the committee, but now it's going to work out in the minutes. In addition, we're looking at another matter that we have in our budget, which we've been working with over time, and which has come up, simply the animal police trial plan. I can rejoice that this has been added to Rogaland, where according to the representative Nybø there are many animals. But I can actually tell that all the states of Norway have quite a number of animals, so most of all, I would be happy if we were able to do this so that it would be successful, and after a while, legal certainty is strengthened by introducing some kind of animal police that could work and even give better research into the serious issues involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1512	Let me first thank the Committee, and in particular the Cooperation Parties, for very good cooperation on this budget. It's done a very good job in the committee. If you look at it a little bit big, there's a lot of consensus in this budget of justice, and I think that's also what we're going to take into the further discussions we're going to have to do to make things better. But I think I have to comment on Mr. Henriksen's comments, because almost the whole article was dedicated to a claim that nothing has happened on the social security and preparedness side. I think that's very sad, because it's a completely different impression than what I'm sitting with. Among other things, it was said that we should practice more, and we do: we practice more, we learn more from the exercises, and we follow up better what we learn from the exercises. That the emergency centre is without propulsion is also wrong. That emergency centre is now on the rails in relation to the new plans, which is a consequence of the fact that we were not able to follow the plans made by the previous government, because they were simply too bad. When 10 million. kr to a national scalable operating centre that has costs in the billions class, shall distinguish between action force and paralysis, I have just a little difficulty in taking it seriously. I really don't think that's fair. I can mention some things we've done: only in 2016 we strengthened the PST by 145 million. kr, since the change of government we have significantly strengthened civil defence, in the Police Directorate a new national situation centre has been set up which is day-to-day staff, we have proposed an increase in police posts of 1,054 posts, and a situation centre for emergency management has been established in the Justice and Emergency Department. The emergency centre is, as I mentioned, on the rails for a new level, we've strengthened the emergency team, we've strengthened the main rescue center, we've made a new Royal Resolution on the rescue service, and we've been through the entire plan from A to Å, as well as a lot more. I feel a need to say it from the pulpit, so that there should not be a sense that nothing has happened on the social security and preparedness side, because in my opinion it is directly wrong. There is a great deal of effort in the budget for the entire justice sector. The police and prosecution authority is increasing by approx. 1.47 B.C.E. kr, the close police reform is to be implemented, and 275 million has been proposed. SEK in total, of which 147 million. kr is fresh funds in the 2016 budget. We're following up the government's promise that the number of police posts will increase by the same amount as those that go out of high school, that's 163 million. NOK 347 new posts in 2016, in addition to approximately the same amount to finance the posts that came in 2015. In addition, of course, the 50 new lawyers who came into office in 2015 are also fully funded, and there is a large increase in police and prosecution authorities at approximately. 350 million. kr in the additional number, which is due to the large influx of asylum. We're starting on a big ICT-lift in the police with 100 million. kr to next year, although it is small in relation to the great need over time, it is a good and great start. And we're strengthening the children's houses by 380 million. in real terms. The last thing I think we should stay, because this room is very concerned that we should ensure a shorter waiting time at the children's houses. The latest reports I received from the police director today show that we are still struggling with it, but that is improvement. We've got a lot of growth in the number of things, and now it's the capacity of the children's houses that's really the most important bottleneck. The strength that lies here is extremely important for us to help the weakest of the weak to be better treated in our legal system. We also strengthen the capacity of the courts – I am pleased that the Committee has found additional resources. We are strongly committed to criminal justice. The fact that we are now building 181 new places at Ullersmo and Eidsberg, will be an important and great lift, and I want to mention that what this hall has been plagued with for a long time, namely a criticism of the lack of prison places and a queue out of control, is now becoming history. We have now almost halved the reconciliation queue, from the 1,213 who stood in a reconciliation queue when this government took over. I think we should be satisfied with that – that is, we should not be content with it, but that is good. We still have to reduce the pay queue, but we are approaching a level that is absolutely sound. We have also proposed in this budget a further strengthening of civil protection, inter alia. 8.3 million. kr for the purchase of equipment. And as part of this room will remember, there was some criticism of the lack of strengthening the social security work of the statesmen. It's proposed to be increased by 10 million. kr in this budget. This is a budget that is very good, and it has been hacked better after the Storting has done its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1531	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1534	In a letter to the POD in August one year ago, Oslo's chief of police called for a national, scalable operating centre in Oslo. The police officer warned against the fact that the Oslo police were not equipped for crises because the operation center had stopped. The reports after 22 July were clear on the need for emergency centres and national, scalable operational centres. Bech Gjørv said, "We are in a hurry." Faremo followed up and decided to set up such a centre in Oslo. Now the Minister of Justice and Security is talking about plans, investigations and rails, and we can see that these rails have so far come no further than to the doorstep of the Ministry of Justice, and the doorstep mile is as long as it is known. When will the Minister of Justice set up a national, scalable operating centre in Oslo? And if a situation arises today with several serious incidents in several police districts at the same time: Who is responsible for operational management?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1541	This State Council has no plans to set up a new National Operation Centre that is scalable. The Gjørv Commission’s opinion came in a situation of 27 police districts. Now we go into a new year where there are 12 police districts. This means that there is a completely different handling capacity in each police district than it was when the Gjørv Commission came up with its position. Now, as I mentioned in my speech, a 24-hour situation centre has been set up at the Directorate of Police, which will also help coordinate better. There are arrangements with neighbouring assistance between the new police districts, and we have a completely different resource in the operational centres in the new police districts than was the case when the Gjørv Commission put forward its position. Then there's another question about whether there's a need for a new operating centre in Oslo. But it's not the national, scalable operating center we're talking about, and it's actually not that many people want it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1550	I am pleased with the signals from the Council of State that waiting time for the children's homes is going down. We've almost doubled the appropriations for the children's homes to next year, so we have great expectations that the waiting times will decrease, but also that the investigation and follow-up of the cases will improve in the coming year. We're going to have a lot of laps of the year coming, to make sure that the Council of State is full of pressure on it. But I want to challenge the Council of State on perhaps the biggest task ahead of him next year, namely that the new police districts take the form and implementation of the police reform. One of the major challenges that is going to come, I think I'll be connected to the janitor's office and the process that's going to come there, and then also how to ensure that a person gets present beyond, and that people feel the security of the police being out there and coming quickly on the ground, etc. Could the Council of State say a little about how he sees that process in time, as far as the LEN's office is concerned, but also how he works to ensure that the intention of the Stortinget is fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1559	Let me take the process in time first. It will be a process that will take different times in the different police districts. It is simply about both implementation capacity and the inequality that exists in the various police districts. For some police districts, this will be a significantly larger task than it will be in other police districts. This starts as soon as the new police officers are in place on 1 January 2016. At that time, one will start the organisation of a leadership group — how the future management should be — and this will materialise in the organisation, otherwise, according to a specific plan that will be individual for the different police districts. It also means that it will take time, and I think it's also important that we use the time that is needed to get the structural changes that will also be right in the long term. With regard to the government of the department, we're making our own project of this, where I myself want to be a central follow-up of the Police Directorate's follow-up to what are the politically very clear leaders of the near-police reform. It will be followed up both in the ordinary governance dialogue and in the extraordinary follow-up that we will have on a project basis vis-à-vis the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1566	We have a cross-political objective of two police officers per thousand inhabitants by 2020. In the police reform, there was a demand for 90 pst. by the population should have a maximum of 45 minutes running time to the nearest service location. One can reach two per thousand on average, even though the distribution is very uneven between different parts of the country, and one can also satisfy the requirement of 90 pst. In the summertime, however, there is a situation where half a million Nordics have a much longer distance than this. The distance to the nearest service location is not directly related to response time and good preparedness, but it has a context, all the time long distances make the most populous areas easily prioritised. How will the Council of State ensure good local preparedness in the future, and does he also think that there is reason to problematize these metrics?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1575	I do not agree that the distance to the Länsmannskontoret is of great importance for the response time. This government, like the first government, has ever set response time requirements for the police, and that's the kind of relationship I think people are most concerned about -- that they should know how long it normally takes before the police come, in an emergency situation. I am pleased to announce that the police are meeting the response time requirements in a good way today, and I think it is important to bear in mind that it is the part that is most important to strengthen in order to be able to increase the local capacity of the police in time. And the demands – as is also stated in the reform of the police and the agreement on it – can be exacerbated in the future when one gets more involved in the police. However, I do not agree that there is any connection between the response time and the response time requirement, and the distance to the janitor's office or the distance to a police station where you are going into a rare time. But, of course, the objectives of the close police reform must be met, regardless of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1582	On several occasions we have discussed excesses in smooth cells. I would like to ask a question about smooth cells this time as well, but not primarily about the issue of excesses. In the near-police reform, we agreed that we should carry out at least one experiment with intoxicated persons, which is currently placed in smooth cells in isolation – without necessarily needing isolation – only because they need to be kept. So we were supposed to try out a system where they were at the health service instead of on the smooth cell. In the past, Stortinget has also dealt with a matter where you asked that the smooth cells become a little less smooth, because even if you need to sit in smooth cell, that doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to read a book – or play Playstation, for that matter – have something to stimulate the brain with, can control the light yourself, have airing, etc., etc. I see now that there has been no room for that in this budget, but I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: how do we deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1591	At the end of the day, when it comes to making the smooth cells a little less smooth, there's something that's taken into account when building new police buildings with smooth cells. We have more examples of taking it into account, and that's an important part of that work. Then, of course, it is more demanding to put it in place in the smooth cell buildings we have today, and it is not made up of specific budgetary resources – as the representative himself points out – to achieve it now. At the same time, it's a great advantage that we now have fewer overshoots, that more people are being transferred to ordinary places of redemption and care, faster than what you've done before, which fortunately also helps to reduce the problem that we've had with a very, very large and too much, too high a proportion of people who ignore. There's still too many, and we're still working to get the number down, but it's getting much better. With regard to the issue of intoxication and smooth cell, there is something we need to do in the follow-up when the new police officers get in place, to see which police district is best suited. There are some people who look more up-to-date than others, but it will be followed up when the structures come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1600	The field of justice is very large and extensive. We've got a number of large and fairly high-profile trucks that cover everything from terror to preparedness to a number of serious crime types. Now we are also going through a reform in the years to come, with many very good intentions. But a reform period is always also a period of change. What's my question about it is whether we can feel completely confident that the enormous societal challenge that power against children and others in close relationships is getting the massive attention and the pressure it's exerting. There are sometimes claims that other parts of the field are so central that this is not given enough priority. Can the Council of State assure us that the challenge is difficult and central enough in the day-to-day work of the Department of Police Reform and in its own priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1610	I'm very pleased with that question, because it's a focus area that I'm very, very concerned about. By now, I have had a meeting with the Police Directorate and the Police Director on this particular issue, because we have had challenges in identifying bottlenecks, we have had challenges in finding out why there is so much difference in the way the various police districts handle these issues, and now a great analysis work has been carried out to give us those answers, so that we can put in more targeted action. This is completely in the core of my own commitment, and it's completely in the core of what's Police Directorate's commitment. So in general, regardless of this, the representative is also quite right that in the implementation of a reform, it is challenging to keep the necessary pressure and get the necessary results in the day-to-day work. It will also be demanding in the future, but it will not fail for the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1619	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1624	Getting help when you need it is and becomes the most important thing we talk about health care, police response or fire and rescue. In many different kinds of crises and events in life, we are all dependent on a social preparedness that works. We live spread in Norway, and many of us come from the valley where there is something further between the houses than there is here in Oslo. It is important for everyone's safety that we strengthen the preparedness for life, health and safety. The Minister of Justice and Defence says that we have slightly different impressions. That's enough. But what is the reality? We find that there is no greater emphasis on preparedness work in the government's draft budget or in the agreement with the Cooperation Party. For neither national, regional or local preparedness is self-evident. Preparedness requires prioritisation, bets, inter-etatar exercises and cooperation with local preparedness, including: Red Cross and Norwegian National Aid. Police reform is a good starting point for strengthening police and local preparedness. But the police reform is not a quick fix, although the decision taken in the Storting was good. There will first be more police and better preparedness where people live, if the Ministry of Justice, the Police Directorate and the leadership of the new police districts ensure that the reform is effectively followed up. It will require action, and it will require priority. So I'm excited about the implementation of the reform, and I'll be very careful about it in the future. We need a faster response and strengthened preparedness. Then we talk about everything from the daily preparedness for crisis to the national preparedness for terrorism. We must be forewarned that there may be several major crises and attacks of multiple places at once. Locally we know that there is a need to strengthen the training facilities. This is the background for the Workers' Party proposing 3 million. kr to work with a regional practice centre on Rygge. Other places in Norway should be considered to establish such training centres. Then it's said that the work with the emergency centre is on the rails. So the question is how far these rails are going to go. It is not clear when we can expect such work to be done. What does this plan contain? Is it any further business? I mean the one-sided focus on weapons that have been this year, not luck. The Labour Party has concrete proposals: we want an emergency centre; we want a national scalable operating centre; we want regional training centres; we need to follow up the police reform properly; we want a plan for a helicopter with transport capabilities for the police and a plan for maritime preparedness. That's what you need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1639	Once again, the government has provided a very good budget for the justice sector, which became even better after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left. For the government and the Right, it is important to pursue a judicial policy that ensures the individual’s need for security and legal certainty. Through our three state budgets so far submitted, we have helped to increase the number of police posts, and we have prioritised the coherence of the criminal action chain. One of the major challenges facing society today is violence in close relationships. Violence in close relationships is serious crime and a major public health problem. In addition to the major consequences for individuals, there is also high socio-economic costs. A socio-economic analysis from December 2012 estimates that violence in close relations costs the Norwegian community between 4.5 billion. and 6 billion. kr annually. That is why I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties have strengthened this important area through this State budget as well. In our treated Stortinget Prop. 112 L for 2014–2015, Changes to the Criminal Procedures Act [[question of children and other particularly vulnerable insults and witnesses]] This can be expected to increase the pressure on both the police and the state children’s home. Therefore, it is proposed to increase overall by more than 80 million. The police and the State Children's House. Overall, the strength goes both to the creation of a new children’s home in the East Police District, to the staff of the State Children’s House and to the police, to several investigators, prosecutors and interrogators to combat violence against children. I also want to bring forward the grant scheme to help women and men out of prostitution and to support victims of human trafficking or violence in close relationships. The proposal for 2016 proposes a commitment of 76 million. kr for this purpose. Then I have to say that I am very happy that the government parties and the Christian People's Party agreed to strengthen and continue the victims' office. It's important in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1656	I heard the Labour Party representatives talk about preparedness. Then it struck me that either they are rude, or they lack self-insight, or we're going to listen carefully to them, because if there's a party that's been undressed in terms of preparedness and bet on it, it's the Workers' Party. Those who are in doubt about what I mean, I recommend reading the 22nd of July Commission's position. It was a clear signal and a review and analysis of a lack of preparedness in which one party had clear primary responsibility – the Labour Party. The fact that they now focus on it, I think it is positive, but in the name of dessert, you should not forget who was sitting at the rudder when Norwegian police and Norwegian preparedness were completely undressed. There might be more than me in this room who's read the two secret reports that PST gave after that. For those of us who have a heart for the Norwegian police and the job they do, there was relatively sad reading, because the ambitions were present, but the possibilities were limited. But this should be a nice day, since there is a budget decision to be taken. I want to pay tribute to all those who work in the justice sector – people who work in our conflict councils and do their best to find good, smart, local solutions, and people who assist in volunteering for mountain rescue. Those who know me know that I have a passionate relationship with our main rescue centers, which do a fantastic job when crises occur. I heard the government council say they've been investing in a reinforcement. In that case, I challenge the Council of State to continue with it, because we still have things settled there that we have to go on. We have new rescue managers in education, but until they're certified, they're not able to go alone to work, at least, as I understand the system. So there we have tasks that we still have to focus on, because people who live along the coast and who travel along the coast know that when the crisis is over, they will get help in this country because we have consistently good people. And we have a system that other countries envy us. We have a management where the chief of police in two centrals goes in and out, and then they demand the equipment needed to solve the most, most of the situations. I think that's something we're initially taking for granted, but whoever's in crisis, who's being rocked, will forever be grateful. Once again, as I said, there are an incredible number of good people here who do a job, and we may not give attention and honor to daily. People in our prisons, people who work with the most demanding inmates, people who take care of those who end up on smooth cell -- they have challenges, but at the same time, I want from this pulpit to give honey to everyone who contributes and does the best in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1665	The President will point out that there are more parliamentary terms than the word ‘freek’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1668	There is a well-documented need for the response actors to train more together. Through a number of exercises and actual events, there is a well-documented need for better interaction between our response actors. The Gjørv Commission described in its report ‘the resources that did not find each other’, and in retrospect there have been a number of reports pointing to weaknesses and the need to increase the ability to interact and develop interoperability in and between our emergency budgets. The majority of the parties choose to cut in the framework of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the establishment of the National Emergency Response Centre in Oslo has been pushed out in time, and there is no commitment to regional training and preparedness centres. The agreement between the majority parties provided for the establishment of a training and emergency centre on Rygge in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015. It was good, but that the money has been left unused in the department, I confirm that I am not exaggerating when I point out that the government is not trying to get regional practice centres in place. It is disappointing to see that it has not been followed up by the government, nor is it involved in the conciliation between the majority parties. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has proposed to allocate 3 million. To Rygge. Smoking is already being used by the police in Eastfold, the police high school, the PST and the emergency team. At Rygge there are opportunities few other areas have. There is helicopter capacity on site, and there can be practice on the coordination of resources in the air, which the fires in Fromand and Lærdal so clearly indicated the need for. A lot of research work has been done on what can be done at Rygge and at other regional training and emergency centres. We see a great deal of commitment out in the individual floors and in the volunteer rescue agencies to put together good practice facilities and practice together. However, we lack a clearer commitment and clearer signals from those who are responsible. We lack a clear priority. I would point out that at Rygge the government has a great opportunity to establish a pilot, a pilot who can serve as an example for the establishment of other regional training and emergency centres in the country. This fall we have had extreme weather that has put the preparedness to the test. We've had a high level of preparedness in the last year because of a terrorist threat. The events in Paris also showed us the challenges and requirements for dealing with all emergencies. It's a reminder that we have to put forth effort and facilitate conditions so that we can best handle all kinds of unwanted events.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1681	This government has reduced the settlement queues by 400 unconditional judges. One of the main reasons why you've done that is that you've got more payoffs in place, including: with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. That's absolutely necessary when we know that 34 pst. of all prisoners on 5 August 2015 are non-residents and 58 pst. in custody are also non-residents. That's why I was surprised at the degrees in the debate in Stortinget on 26 November, when the representative Kari Henriksen said that they have a ‘value view that says that those who commit crime on Norwegian soil are going to zone on Norwegian soil’. I wrote it in the account for perhaps an inaccuracy and a bad parliamentary day, but this is actually confirmed in the remarks to the State budget, where it is written: ‘The governing parties and the Christian People’s Party are alone in sending persons who have committed criminal acts on Norwegian soil to other countries in order to zone.’ Spectacular! In 2013, foreign nationals were transported to their country of origin corresponding to 28 603 paydays. It's 78 detention centres. So when you know that the annual cost of a prison place is $960,000 and you multiply it by 78, you get $74 million. This budget of the Workers' Party is under-budgeted in order to take the Workers' Party seriously, and we know from experience that one should in fact perhaps. Where the government has worked actively to establish reconciliation agreements with the rest of the world, it seems that the Workers' Party is now focusing on a policy for the total accumulation of foreigners in Norwegian prisons. This requires clarification from the Labour Party and primarily from the representative Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1700	So today we are dealing with the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence next year, and in my contribution I will focus on the field of preparedness. When we look back at what happened on July 22, 2011, what we as a nation are experiencing from the terrible events, and not least what the Gjørv report recommended when it comes to strengthening national preparedness, I think there is a great deal of consensus about the intentions in this area, but here, then, there is a lack of executive power on the part of the Council of State. Putting local, regional and national security and preparedness on the agenda is essential for the security that we as citizens should have. As the Minister has now reduced his duties, I hope he will have better time and not least the government's willingness and efficiency to do something in the field of emergency in 2016. The government has had good and good two years – rest years – in the field of preparedness, which has made us unremarkable in key areas such as national emergency services, scalable operational centres in Oslo and regional training centres around the country. It is important that these areas are now put on the agenda and given their natural place. If we are to be better equipped to face a new terrorist attack or other serious incidents on Norwegian soil, we must take the great grips that really strengthen the country's ability to handle serious crises. We learned that, among other things: of 22 July and the report of the Gjørv Commission. It is striking how the Minister of Justice's focus on preparedness seems to have been reduced to just a matter of permanent police armedness. The government says nothing about what really matters to the security and preparedness of our country. We don't have time to waste. For the Labour Party, this is about putting serious behind the words, and we are trying to deliver in some of these areas in our draft budget for 2016. We need to know where the emergency centre is going to be, and we need to know when it's going to be over. The sharpest end of the police must train more and better on the sharpest missions. The problem now is the time for the Minister of Justice to decide. The Working Party has taken the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission seriously. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see. kr to Rygge, to improve shooting path capacity and to improve conditions for emergency situations to interact and interact. The need to establish good regional training centres is important and necessary to strengthen regional security and preparedness, but the government does not deliver in this area either. The working party is committed to improving local preparedness. It is not just about responding to the police reform and all the challenges that are being raised, but about ensuring that police reform actually leads to better and clearer local preparedness. Police reform is a good starting point, but the results will not come of their own. There must be more police force where people live, in the new police districts and in all the municipalities that the districts are to cover. In conclusion, I would also like to point out the lack of commitment and clarification in view of national crisis management. Here, too, nothing comes from the government and the cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1721	With this government's draft budget for 2016, the escalation in the field of justice continues. There will be more police in the streets, and there will be new prison sites to be expanded. From next year, the near-police reform will be launched. This means more police out in the field. With new working methods, such as more on-the-spot research, the police are also getting smarter ways of working, and we as a society can expect better quality of police work. One hundred million. The modernisation of ICT in the police in the draft budget is also part of this. It has been a paradox in the past that newly educated police students have not got a job. This does something to the government, and it goes without saying that it's smart that when society has used resources to train people specifically for a type of job, they actually get jobs within this. More than 1000 new posts have been created by this government to ensure that these jobs are relevant. This year's budget has the heading work, activity and conversion. The government’s package of measures is trying to address some of the challenges of the decline in activity, particularly for the West. For the justice sector, this is reflected in increased maintenance in prisons. For Bergen prison, this represents 25 million. kr and for Åna prison the same. Crime is growing by about 9pst, and there is room for the expansion of new prison sites. The prison sites that Norway is now renting from the Netherlands mean that we have better settlement capacity. It's important that people who are waiting for their son's sentence get it done as quickly as possible, so that they get settled and get on with their lives. The plaques in the Netherlands contribute to this. The budget debate should also be the time to look a little further than just next year, because although there is a lot of good that lies in the justice field in the budget that we are adopting today, the things we can get better at. Making sure that those people who get their lives put in prison, whether in Norway or in the Netherlands, get rehabilitated in an even better way than today, is something we can all earn. We have to look ahead and work to make each one the best possible fit to become a part of society again after his atoning. As an alternate here, I finally want to thank the committee for accepting me nicely this autumn. It is of course a pleasure then to end it by agreeing to adopt a brilliant budget for justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1735	Let me then also return the thanks to the previous speakers, who have really contributed constructively and skillfully to the committee's work on many heavy matters in the autumn. We really appreciate that. I recorded that one of my combinations – at least a county building, to say the same – was up in the pulpit and talked about the practice center and the need for, among other things. to put in a practice center on Rygge, in my own county. Now it is the case that in the police reform – on which the Labour Party has been involved – we have a point in what the Stortinget decided to do, that we have given them a mission. Now look at the possibility of getting practice centres in all the new police districts. This is a reform that formally starts up now to the year, so this will be part of the work that the Minister of Justice and we all have to follow up, so it's a little funny to ask for more action now. After all, we agree – a large, broad majority on the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party itself – that this should now be seen as an opportunity to get in place when the police reform is being rolled out and implemented. Like my party colleague Ellingsen, I was very impressed when I heard the main post of the representative and the main figure of the Labour Party in the Chamber today. Then we go to the levels of attacks on this government and this majority for allegedly unworked readiness. I understand that you can't use the term rudely, and I don't know if you can use the "gift of luck," but at least that's what you have in that case. I guess most people in this room have read the Commission's report, it was probably on over 400 pages. There is some of the most serious criticism of some government in terms of a lack of preparedness. Then the Workers' Party, together with its red-green colleagues, joined forces to overthrow this country. They also had two years after that, before the next election, and what in all days were they delivered? If this emergency centre was so important, why wasn't it open before the 2015 elections? The problem was that when we took over the government offices, this project was not finished, it was not just putting the spade in the ground – on the contrary. I think you really have to go on your own if you start accusing this government and the majority parties of a lack of work on standby. What in all days did you do before 22 July 2011 and the following years? It's amazing that you can manage to keep this as the main focus of this debate today. I really want to know what the Workers' Party is proposing for better preparedness. If they think it's this emergency centre that's Alpha and Omega, they got to put the billions we need into this budget themselves, if they think this should be up and standing for the current year. They haven't provided another penny. It's also saying its own. It's okay to be clear, but when you don't have money, it obviously doesn't mean much either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1748	The representative is quite right that ‘freckle’ is on the list of terms which are not entirely parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1751	We're dealing with a justice budget with an expenditure side of over 31 billion. kr. The government parties, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, deliver a lot in that budget. We make Norway safer, and many and important initiatives are being taken. Then we hear that the Workers' Party, the largest opposition party, is attacking the government for failure in the field of preparedness. It's completely wrong, we're strengthening the field of preparedness. This is then exemplified by the Workers' Party by pointing to the work of the National Emergency Response Centre. Then let's go back and see what the Workers' Party itself did with the same emergency centre while they were in government. Well, they left to the current state council the staf stick for a project with unclear construction time, with unexplained land needs, with unpredictable ground conditions and noise measurements and noise conditions that no one could say about the consequences of – based on where the Workers' Party had locked up to lay. This had to be cleaned up by our government. It has been addressed by the Council of State in an offensive, active and good manner and is well-informed in this budget. This is cleaning up after the red-greens, a job they couldn't do themselves. I have still not received an answer to the question from the Workers' Party as to why they want to increase the pay queues. That's an important question, I'm still waiting for an answer to that. So there's another element, which I also want an answer to. It's going to the Center Party. In the comments relating to the structure of the courts, the Centre promotes a proposal that we should stop all merger proceedings in respect of district courts. I disagree, but it's a real proposal. Then we see in the same note, in the same column, that the Center Party writes that in the case of Kongsberg District Court and Eiker, Modum and Sigdal District Court, we can merge them and add it to Kongsberg – but in the case of everyone else, aggregation is to be stopped. My question to the Center Party is: Are you in favour of or against aggregation, when you say opposite things in your own comments and suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1762	Security and preparedness are about taking precautionary measures, about preventing dangerous situations. One way to prevent is to secure central objects. For this reason, we have security control, among other things: Here at the Stortinget. And so it's a cross-estimate that the government doesn't want to allow the 7.5 million. the crowns needed to implement the necessary security measures in Oslo District Court. The Minister of Justice and Security should note that both the courts themselves, the court administration and the police chaplain in Oslo have been crystal clear that it is necessary to put these safeguards in place. This is not just action paralysis from the Minister of Justice and Security, it is to ignore clear warnings, and it is a concrete example that one here does not take security seriously enough. But the police officer in Oslo can also tell us that the police district needs to use extra resources on security in criminal matters, resources both the police officer and the people of Oslo would probably want one to use to give the inhabitants more police power, either on the streets or for investigation. What is also alarming is that the civil matters are not given any watchkeeping. This may, for example: be child-distribution matters or matters relating to power in close relationships. We have been working for many years to give children greater legal certainty and to fight violence in close relationships. We've put the children's houses in place and strengthened them. This has led to several such cases going to courts, cases where the level of conflict is high, but where the security of the cases is poor. The cases also illustrate that the District Courts have many users — children, adults, witnesses, victims of crime, addendum, and defendants. They should all feel safe when they come to the courts, and we can no longer trust the luck and hope that it will go well. The lack of security in Oslo District Court is also an example of how the government stops processes that are in progress. Former Minister of Justice Faremo proposed in the budget for 2014 funds for security control, but the government stopped it, just as they are now stopping work on scalable operating centres, alternative forms of settlement as a penalty service, and they are putting down good places of settlement in my home state of Telemark, Kleivgrend in Fyresdal. These are good things that the Labour Party would like to get multiple numbers to strengthen or maintain, but which the government stops. July 22nd: Things went wrong. We've learned, and I think July 22 was an important lesson for everyone. That is why we are impatient now, and it is those who are now responsible, as they are in government, who have a responsibility to strengthen the preparedness process. That's why we're asking for an answer: when can we expect to have an emergency centre in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1777	I have to say, as some other speakers have said today, that I am a little surprised that the Labour Party is trying to make criticism of the preparedness work its paradeal number during this debate. That criticism falls like a dead bird to the earth. It was because the previous government did not check the quality and did not understand the difference between the gross and net area that made the costs of the Alnabru option underestimate by several hundred million kroner. It's a fact. After all, the Minister of Justice had a cavalcade of what was done on the emergency side. I can add a couple of relationships to: The helicopters on Rygge and Bardufoss are set in one hour's standby. A joint counter-terrorist centre has been established between the E service and the PST. The majority had to deal with changes in the police law in June 2015, which made assistance from the Defense simpler, and subsequent revision of the aid directive. So we all know the work done in the field of radicalisation and violent extremism, an action plan of 30 points funded by 17 million. kr. That's three million. kr in the State budget for similar work in prisons. Then I almost have to hang on to the representative, Werp, his very good point of the Central Party's attitude to centralization: one is against centralization, but one is absolutely for centralization in what I would call Lundtägen's home area – yes, even in Lundtägen itself. Now I see that the representative Lundtigen is in the hall, so it's interesting to hear what assessments underlie precisely that centralization, to use the worn-out terminology of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1786	In my main post, I stressed that the Central Party believes that constant restructuring and aggregation are not reasonable. This gives the impression of action because changes happen. It's easy to show that you've done something, but it's not necessarily the right changes. When the 110 central banks are involved, there are also changes. We have examples from Finnmark, where it's going to be a private Finnmark police district, where the 110-central is going to move from Hammerfest to Troms, and there are several examples. What I want to mention in this article is that with new technologies that are constantly developing, we need to look at good solutions and alternatives to physical aggregation. It's not that I'm against all physical aggregations, but the point is that there are good alternatives that can give better results. In Sogn and Fjordane, they have developed a pilot project with electronic and virtual interaction between the naudetats, which can last both local knowledge and be more robust in the event of major crises. The centre party believes that this pilot project is exciting, and there is a constructive input that needs to be tested. This means that the fire alarm service, which is the municipality’s responsibility, is to be co-located with the operation centre of the police in the new West Police District, where Bergen becomes the headquarter of the new police district. They will test out web-based co-location in the West Police District to initiate the implementation of the collapse decision, but where the 110-central Sogn and Fjordane in Florø are connected virtually with the 110-central Hordaland located in Bergen. The call from the Central Party to the Minister of Justice in this context is to open up to such a pilot. So to the question from Werp about merging courts: that's actually a very good point. One might say that the center part goes a long way when we say that it should be merged here, but if you read the whole comment, you see that we don't want to get started with a merge. What we're saying is that we think that there's a bad proposal with common leadership, like the government party has gone in for, and if one is going to go in for something like this, we think that one should rather look at the co-location of these two courts that are close to each other, and as I've said many times before, the centre party is not against all kinds of changes, but there must be changes where that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1795	I had the pleasure of being the Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee dealing with the 22nd of July matters in this house, and I also had the pleasure of being the head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee dealt with similar matters. I have to admit that if there is one thing I do not get into this debate, it is the emergency charges from the Workers' Party. I didn't think I was going to go that far, but the party that got the criticism from the Gjørv Commission, which has left long, long lists in the Ministry of Justice and Defence of unresolved social security and preparedness tasks when we took over government, would come with this tiara, I wouldn't be lucky if I sat on that side of the table. One of the things that really surprised me when I took over as a government council, was that there was so little structure on the follow-up work after July 22, that it had come as short as it was at the government change on October 16, 2013. And there's been quantum leaps, I dare say, after the government shift. I don't even have to refer to anything other than the control matter that was about social security and preparedness, carried out in this house in June, where a truly got the overview of part of the work that this government has done on social security and preparedness. I suggest that the representatives of the Workers' Party read the documentation that appeared in that hearing, at least they would have knowledge of what has been done, because they cannot at all be in possession of the criticism that has come here. But I get a little better perspective on the reason that it had not happened more after July 22, because when 10 million. kr for the planning of national scalable operational centres and 3 mills. NOK to Rygge should be the difference in the power of action and not in the area of social security and preparedness, so I understand at least that the focus has been completely wrong. I think it is worth noting that the job with a national emergency centre was completely run-down when we took over. It was a non-realizable project. Now it's a real project. The first step has been the implementation of the concept selection inquiry, quality assurance, and so in this budget, the money is in for the project. So it follows the lead that all of the big investments are making, and that's why it's on track. Then it has to be KS2, and then Stortinget has to make its decision. It's going as fast as possible, but the Storting now has a decision-making basis to deal with. The previous government wouldn't have been able to facilitate it, so I think it's strange that in this way they're going to be as if this is something that's challenging. And then I realize that it's not easy to bring along everything that's happening in the area of social security and preparedness because it's happening very much, and it's happening very quickly, but that the representatives of Asphjell and Henriksen haven't realised that we've submitted a big message on the role of the police in national crisis management and on the National Scalable Operation Centre on December 4th this year, which is being discussed in their own committee, I think it's strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1806	Police reform is intended to ensure better social security and preparedness. It's a good starting point, but the results don't come of themselves just by changing administrative boundaries. It is now almost three years since the Storting discussed the matter of follow-up to the Yard Commission, where an important observation was: the resources did not find each other. I want to record the thread from what I said that time. Municipal risk awareness and preparedness were scarcely mentioned, despite the obvious link to the main conclusion of the Gjørv Commission: the ability of authorities to protect people failed. Nobody said anything about the importance of municipal risk awareness and preparedness related to the question: Could anything have been different? It was a great weakness, which also becomes a hole in our future preparedness if no one takes it seriously. In fact, I miss the fact that the importance of the work of the municipal emergency services is made visible. We never get the best preparedness without a close interaction between central and local risk awareness and preparedness – not only with local police but also with municipal authorities. The Gjørv Commission had only one half-page on crisis management at local level, but there was a clear-cut response: «Every domestic incident takes place in one or more municipalities. The municipality is responsible for important local response resources and has a fundamental responsibility for ensuring the safety and security of the population.» It is such that all municipalities are required by the law in force to carry out comprehensive risk and vulnerability analyses as a basis for social security and preparedness. The analyses shall cover the entire risk picture within the geographical area of the municipalities – not only their own responsibilities. It is about preparedness when unexpected events occur, but also in the ongoing work on prevention. If the resources find each other there, they also find each other when it's really whether we're talking about terror, natural disasters, violence in close relationships, etc. Now I'm going to ask the Council of State a question, so it would be very nice if he could listen. The question comes here, namely, and I have built it up throughout the article: we get new police districts. The Buskerud bench has been on two occasions visiting Søndre Buskerud to be briefed on the reform, and both times I asked the question: how to ensure the important cooperation of the municipal emergency services when each district now has many more municipalities to deal with? It was clear that this was something you had not thought of. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Council of State: how is cooperation in the municipal emergency services supposed to be maintained in the new merged police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1822	What was the situation when we took over the government offices? Yes, a paycheck in criminal custody of over 1,200 unconditional judges and a maintenance run in prisons of several billion dollars. The government showed from the day one action force, and now we see the results. By renting prison capacity in the Netherlands, the Right and the Government, together with the Christian People's Party, are helping people who have their lives on hold, to make their atonement faster and to start their new life after an end of reconciliation. In addition to renting places in the Netherlands to meet acute needs, 213 million are granted. kr to 181 new places at the prisons of Ullersmo and Eidsberg. Not only are funds allocated to new places, we also take seriously the large maintenance run in prisons and allocate 120 million. kr for exceptional maintenance. It is frightening to read the proposals made by the Workers’ Party and the Centre to the State budget, where they simply put a line over the entry on the rental of settlement sites – without any new capacity in Norway for closed settlement, and without taking into account the contracts entered into and the obligations that this entails also in 2016. Does this cover-up mean elsewhere, or is there any additional tax increases to be financed by? Now I see a future, the 17-year-old said after being in the system of juvenile punishment. It has been a year and a half since the adoption of the criminal response to juvenile punishment and follow-up. Nordic research, commissioned by the Ministry of Justice, has launched a research project to look at the results of this form of reaction. I have great faith in such reactions, and am therefore pleased that the government has also strengthened the allocation to the conflict councils by 2.5 million. kr, precisely to strengthen the capacity to deal with this new form of criminal reaction. I also want to point to the good job that all the volunteer organisations do in criminal matters. Organisations such as: The Church's Social Service, the Salvation Army and the Fangers' Family Association are important supplements to public work among prisoners. We also have Networks after settlement. The network works in such a way that participants are linked with volunteers – not a support contact, not an employee or a professional, but a volunteer who uses his own experience to help others on the right track. Prisoners who have been part of the program say that it has been absolutely vital to succeed in their return to society. Grants to non-governmental organisations are also strengthened by this State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1841	The Directorate for Social Security and National Emergency Response Survey earlier this year showed that only half of Norwegian municipalities are working satisfactorily with social security and preparedness. Most municipalities handle small and medium-sized events in a satisfactory way. It is when the really major crises occur that it is essential that municipalities have carried out good risk and vulnerability analyses and that they have a well-established contingency plan that they have been practicing. We never know when an unwanted event will hit a municipality, or what pressures the municipality and the population will be exposed to. It is therefore essential that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness be allocated resources in cooperation with the counties in order to be able to play their role in relation to the municipalities in a satisfactory manner. It is therefore with great concern that we record that the government is cutting 10 million. kr in the allocation to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. In addition to having key emergency situations such as police, fire and ambulance, voluntary emergency services constitute an important and necessary support element in national preparedness. These individually form an important part of our national security. Even more important is the fact that these environments of competence have common exercises and, through good cooperation, are best equipped to perform tasks jointly. It is essential that local or regional preparedness councils be given priority in the day-to-day work on social security and preparedness in the municipalities in the future. Through joint work on local police and preparedness councils, a pool of expertise and experience could be exploited in an even better way. Here one can have a common strategy for how one can jointly prevent or solve small and large events. I am pleased that the new national emergency network will soon be fully developed so that all emergency situations and voluntary response organisations can communicate on a common platform. In this context, I would like to stress the importance that investment and operation of a new emergency network should not be an economic burden on the voluntary rescue service. I would also like to point out that the draft budget for 2016 does not indicate what is planned for the future helicopter service in the police. Today's police helicopters are old and have gone very many hours. They're overripe for replacement. These helicopters are currently used for regular police missions and do not address the needs of the police to transport police intervention forces in a critical situation, which is urgently needed. Work on establishing a solution with helicopters, which can also be used for the transport of police forces, must be carried out quickly. The Labour Party will point out that how the government will ensure the police’s ability to intervene in maritime matters is also not mentioned in the draft state budget. Finally, I would like to remind you that the emergency team has reported that they need new boats, and they need the government to ensure the necessary maritime capacity in a crisis situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1860	The court administration and its board have worked purposefully for the radical centralisation of the district courts. Neither the board nor the court administration could have used so much labour on this without the support of the government. At the same time, there has been no demand from citizens, citizens or the public to do so – on the contrary. There has been a great deal of unrest in a number of forums: elected bodies such as local government, regional councils and county councils. Legal certainty, professional environment and recruitment are not good arguments for centralisation. The case-handling time is low in a number of small cases. It's not like this -- as it is in other things -- that it's the ratio of small to large. It's both big and small things that work worse. That's not what's going on. There's a lot of leadership going on. There's a lot of good results from small things, with sorenists who put their honor in doing the job in what I would call a patriotic spirit. You don't go home at four o'clock – you go home after you've done the job. It's exemplary. This was made very clear in the seminar of the Centre Party, where we invited both the management of the Court administration and central Zorenprinters to elaborate and explain their views. I am very pleased with the work of the Christian People's Party in this matter – the Left too, but first of all the Christian People's Party – which has led to the Right and the Advance Party having to add to the great, planned centralisation of the District Courts. They have come to the conclusion that if, after such a process, as it is called, meaning that municipalities and employees in the court are well involved, local consensus is achieved, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party do not have counter-conceptions against a merger, but one is making a really good premise for it all. This is very good. As far as the Central Party is concerned, we are working to implement what we are proposing, namely to stop the work on further merging the courts. The word 'additional' is not randomly chosen. One can stop and think about it. As for the future situation of Kongsberg District Court and Eiker, Modum and Sigdal District Court, I can come back to it. It's true that they're in my constituency and my neighborhood. I'm very proud of the two things, and I'm going to elaborate on the closerness of how it's going to be done in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1874	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1877	To the process that was set up around the structure of the District Court: I can agree with Lundtägen that the Christian People's Party should have praise in the matter, but I believe that the Right and the Advance Party should also have their own local representatives in this matter, for this was little agreement around the country. The working party suggests that you refuse to merge, except that there should be local unity. I would like to stress that we have received very clear feedback from the Committee that there is no consensus on this in Hordaland – just as has been said. To the Victim Compensation Office: I am very happy that one found the tens of millions. I think it's a pity that a victim of the unrest that was created after the government's budget proposal. To Children's House: It's very good that the promises are strengthened, but I still lack that one can earmark the resources, with the experience we unfortunately have from the budget year we now have behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1886	Since the president didn't like that I said the word "frekk" in my first post, I'm not going to use it now, but instead say that my starting point is the same as in my first post. There is no doubt about where I stand like this. That being said, I record that the Workers' Party is speaking when you talk about what should happen. Had they been as active as they are speaking, probably the July 22 Commission report had looked different, and the job Stortinget did with its treatment had become simpler. The fact is that the Workers' Party was completely stripped of an event for which they had a clear political responsibility – not for the event as such, it is only the perpetrator who is responsible, but when it comes to the systemic responsibility that failed, it is clearly with the government that was set up then and with the political leadership that was run by the Workers' Party. You might be the same or not, but it's still a fact. Then, of course, by talking about other things, and about what the others don't, you might shift your focus away from your own weaknesses/excellentities and thus avoid focusing on yourself. But if there's anything this room needs, it's probably that people dare to stand up and say that there we actually did one too bad job. To some of the criticisms that have been raised here today, when it comes to challenging the government on helicopter capacity in the future, I am absolutely sure that the Council of State itself could have wanted to say, well, we have a solution – coming next year. But politics is also about priorities. Priority is to take the most important things first. That's what Stortinget does every day, that's what Stortinget has done, and that's the job of Stortinget. That means that when it doesn't come now, I assume that the Council of State is thinking about it – among different tools and what he's responsible for getting in place is helicopter and helicopter capacity of the important thing. The representative of Christoffersen was in on local preparedness. I share the concern, but there are also opportunities here. Because I think the municipalities are pretty good at this. Local authorities have a lot of local knowledge. They usually have nice people working, and they have the County to see themselves in the cards. The challenge may be to focus on more than a clean plan. The reason I'm saying it just like that is because I've had the pleasure of being in charge of a control committee in a small municipality in Northern Ireland. An administrative audit of the functioning of local emergency plans was carried out. The countyman was very pleased and thought it was great. The problem was that those who were going to do the job did not know where they were going. So there was a big difference between what you experienced was the role of the different practitioners at the time of the crisis and the planning. The planning was perfect, and the adviser was very pleased with the County. The control committee wasn't quite so happy, because people probably weren't where they were going. So local knowledge and locality are important. The solutions will be local when a crisis arises, with the addition of other levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1899	First, to Lise Christoffersen and the question of emergency services in the municipalities: of course, it is a very important part of the cooperation to be undertaken between the new police districts and the municipalities. New forms of cooperation and dialogue shall be established to ensure cooperation with regard to the Security Council, cooperation with the Police Councils, cooperation with regard to other types of activity and the type of service that can be expected by the municipalities. It will be part of the implementation to be carried out in the police districts. The Directorate of Police will provide guidance on how to do so in practice. This will be done in the run-up to the implementation of the near-police reform. With regard to the starting point of the DSB’s investigation into the ability of the municipalities to carry out vulnerability and risk analyses, it is quite correct. It is a major challenge that only half have good enough risk and vulnerability analyses. It's actually much better than it was before, but it's a long way to go until we can say we're satisfied. For this reason, it has been important for the government to strengthen the work of citizens in the field of social security and preparedness. That's 10 million. additional to the work in the budget, and the government has not proposed to cut the DSB. With regard to the cost allocation of new emergency networks, on which the representative Asphjell was also involved, it will follow the model proposed by the Workers' Party, with cost allocation, when the new emergency network project was adopted in this house. So a few words about courts and organization. The representative Lundtegegen suggested that the administration of the Court of Justice could not work on these processes without its political acceptance. It is true, of course, that it is politically acceptable for the Court of Justice to do its job, namely to look at the kind of framework and future organisation that the Court of Justice believes makes sense for the courts. But it is only when they have put forward their proposals that the political process and its follow-up begin. I want to say, without there being a defence for major changes in the court structure, that we are in a situation where the courts are imposing quite strong and stringent governance requirements, but have very little flexibility within their own organisation. So the courts are an independent state power. There is also something that needs to be included in the discussion on how the courts should do their job, and what framework they should do that job in the years ahead. Finally, I also want to say a few words about helicopter standby. It's quite right, as the representative Ellingen said, that there's a great potential for development here. We have implemented a number of measures, and we have started a number of processes, which the Storting will be presented. But it is clear that these are big and important capacities that it takes some time to find the dimensioning of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1914	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1917	The Working Party and the Red-Green Government presented a proposal for the Emergency Centre at Alnabru. There have now been some criticisms from some representatives in this Chamber. I just want to quote what was in the 2015 state budget on page 85: ‘it now appears to be clear that it will be possible to adapt the existing building programme to Alna [[...]] [[includes the police helicopter service, the emergency stop, the bombing team and the crisis and hostage handler service]] Now, when the Council of State sees that the criticism of preparedness came here and now, and after two years is not yet able to answer when the emergency centre comes and where it comes to, it says something about this criticism that might be justified, and that one should not feel hairy. As far as DSB is concerned, I would say that at least the majority of the committee has said that it should be cut by 10 million. kr in DSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1929	As a representative of Buskerud, of course, I have to take the opportunity to comment on a local matter, namely, the downturn was that design start-up funds for a new Drammen warehouse are not in place in the budget for 2016. In fact, it is a unanimous committee which emphasises the importance of the country's courts having a satisfactory building standard, but it is obviously not true of Drammen, unfortunately. The majority indicate that one is informed about the situation, but it stops there. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, with the support of the Centre Party, has in fact taken on board the letter of the Right-wing rapporteur in Drammen, Tore Opdal Hansen, sent to the Minister of Justice on behalf of the rapporteurs in Drammen, Obere Eiker, Lower Eiker, Svelvik and Sande. Actually, they could just ask me. Already when I became rapporteur in Drammen in the last century, it was through the roof. The case handlers had to move the bunkers after the weather, so it should not be wet documents when they got to work the next day. I assume that the entire committee is familiar with the fact that the premises are very old and not suitable for housing a dish. Then I'm a little surprised when the majority might actually introduce a new budgetary practice. I have never experienced anything similar while I was at Stortinget. One says that a request from the government is assessing the means of design for a new Drammen thinghouse in connection with the revised national budget 2016. I am used to the fact that the revised budget is corrections and adjustments for things that have not been fully controlled, not instead of launching new measures. I also think it is a bit strange if the government and large-scale figures now know in December 2015 that they do not have money for start-up project funds in Drammen in May 2016, but at the same time they say: But in May 2016, we are absolutely sure that we have money to put into the revised budget. Is it really that it comes into the revised budget, or is there an attempt at an escape in a somewhat difficult situation now, because one has an impatient Right-Rapporteur in the Drammen? I don't know. If it's real, I don't see why one couldn't just put that money in here and now. That question I let hang a little bit in the air, and then I'm very excited if I get any answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1949	As the Council of State said, the administration of the Court of Justice should do its job. The special thing in this case is that the court administration and its board have spent a lot of time and effort on the structure and on the centralisation of structures. It's caused a lot of anxiety. It follows up what is so tone-setting not only this government, but also earlier, about having the attention to structure rather than having the attention to organisation, culture and management. It's so much to learn from small things. They're very effective, they're cheap, and they have high quality. Why is it not possible to try to multiply that culture, also into the larger district courts and into the smaller district courts, which then do not function properly? Because there are also examples of that. That's where the big challenge lies. So to the relationship Kongsberg district and Eiker, Modum and Sigdal district. It is true that I am well known in the area of Kongsberg, Numedal, Sigdal, Modum and Obere Eiker – know distances, know culture. One has to look forward. One has to see the right of way and the right of change – see a whole. The representative, Mr Werp, is also well-known, not least as the former Right-Rapporteur of the Upper Eiker. Then it's interesting that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the committee with Werp as a member say: ‘there may be good grounds for the merger of Eiker, Modum and Sigdal districts and Kongsberg districts with the continuation of offices both in Hokksund and in Kongsberg.’ [[...]] [[...]] I agree that there are reasons for aggregation due to distance, size of the rights of property and, to a large extent, a common area of work. When the Right-Choosed Aggregation, the Centre Party did not have good reasons to oppose any changes in the District Court, for any change must be assessed in a concrete manner. What we saw as our task to look at was to point out the illogicality of not having a single office. When one is not to have a single office when the districts are so close, when the whole point of centralisation is to get a common office with larger environments, we choose to point it out. For the Central Party, it is seaworthy that we should have local management of state institutions, including the courts – one court, one office, one local management. Problems of recruitment and quality of the court arise when there is doubt about the future of the court. That's why it's important now that doubt is removed, so that the courts can work in peace and cultivate the good culture that we have many examples of in the small district courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1967	The representative Anders B. Werp has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1970	Both the representative of Christoffersen and the representative of Asphjell take up the important role of local emergency services and the local authorities. I fully agree that is absolutely crucial in the continuation. Then you point out an invasion by the majority as problematic, and then I return that question to the representatives: why have you even cut 23 million? In the County budgets? Furthermore, the representative Christoffersen asks why you can't just give money to finish a preliminary project in the Drammen District Court. We can't spend money we don't have. We can't do what the Labour Party does in its budget, and spend 4.75 billion. kr that do not have a containment. At least we can't do that from the majority. And to the Center Party, which finds that you're against the merging of District Courts everywhere, but not in Kongsberg, Eiker, Sigdal and Modum District Courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1975	The representative of the Harek Rivers has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1979	I find that I have not received an answer to my question to the Labour Party about the Workers' Party by saying that those who commit crime on Norwegian soil are going to zone in Norway. If yes, the budget of the Workers' Party is underbudgeted by at least 74 million. kr. If the answer is yes, the spirit presence in the Workers' Party has been weak at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1984	Citation is not very difficult, but quoting correctly can sometimes be demanding, because when you draw out a little bit of the review around Alna, you just get the wrong idea. As the representative of Asphjell should know, both the KVU and the KS1, which are then the quality assurance rounds of the review of the National Emergency Response Centre, have shown that Alna is clearly the worst. It's a completely different concept than what can be at Groenmo or in Ski. It's much worse, it's less safe, and it's significantly more expensive, and it's said both in the KVU and in the KS1 that it's a clearly out of date option. I think it's a little special that you make an impression that it would be possible to place a standby centre, so let's talk about what we're talking about on, for example. Groenmo, on Alna, because that would simply not have been possible. It was too badly planned. I can't believe that the Workers' Party seriously believes that there should be an emergency centre on Alna, which they know would be worse, as they know would be more expensive, and with which they know the risk would be far higher than with the alternative concepts. I'm probably waiting too much, but if I had been responsible for a project that was so poorly launched and implemented as the National Emergency Response Centre at Alna was, I would be grateful that there were people who took hold, sat down and did that job thoroughly, so that we can actually realize a real national emergency centre. We had not done that with the plans that the previous government had made. As for Lise Christoffersen and Drammen thingshouse, she told me that when she was rapporteur – I think she said in the last century, but it was also in the last millennium – it was raining through the roof. Then it could have been tempting for a sitting state council to say that perhaps something should have been done with the governments that were then and have been in arrears. I have asked the Court of Justice to carry out an overall assessment of which buildings they want to prioritise in the future, because in the courts of Norway there are many buildings that need both maintenance and new buildings, and it is important that we then have a realistic prioritisation of that building mass, so that projects that cannot be implemented are not started. The aim is to achieve results in the end, and then the starting point must also be realistic, without answering the question of what we come back to in the revised budget, because we will come back to it in the revised budget in accordance with the Storting's remark in that area. I just want to comment on Lundtigen's post cards. "It's so much to learn from small things," says Lundtigen. Yes, it may be, but it's a lot to learn from good and bad. The small district courts are more vulnerable, it's a competence challenge, and it's very small professional environments. We have District Courts where there are two and three judicious annual works, and it goes without saying that these should be able to handle all matters – it creates some real limitations. On the other hand, there are advantages of shorter travel time to the workplace, but we need to get this professional basis for the proper debate, and that is what the Court of Justice is preparing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e1993	The Minister of Justice said July 22 was a serious matter. Yes, we in the Labour Party fully agree with the Minister of Justice. If someone knows how serious it was, it's the Labour Party and the Ministry of Justice. We took responsibility. We're humble when it comes to things not working. That was not good enough, and we accept that. This serious backstop means a great responsibility for us politicians, and we cannot afford to wait with the preparedness measures we know there is a need for. The Minister of Justice and Security points to more police officers as a result of an emergency response. The Labour Party is very happy with more policemen, and we think they're doing a good job, but more policemen are a concrete result of the previous government's increased admission to the Police College. It's simple logic – more places to study, more policemen. But this alone isn't enough, and there isn't a situation center in the POD either. We in the Labour Party have expressed our impatience in this debate. There is not enough plan for an emergency centre, when the plan does not say anything about when we can expect a plot selection or a time for completion. With regard to Anundsen's plan, which is said to be on the rails, I would like to ask concretely: is there a time limit for when we can expect an emergency centre to be completed? ‘We have provided liberal budgets for preparedness’, says Leirstein. There is no money for the national scalable operating centre, not for helicopter standby, not for maritime standby – and it does not seem that we are going to get any emergency centre during this period – and no money for security measures in Oslo District Court. The police officer in Oslo said last year to ABC News that the police were not equipped for crises. What's changed since last year? Governments say there is no need for a national scalable operating centre. We in the Labour Party are so far in disagreement with the Council of State in, at least until we have put in place how the Council of State will resolve national crises in a different way. In this context, I would like to repeat my question to the Council of State, since he did not respond to it in the change of line: who has the operational responsibility if there were to be more serious incidents in the same police district today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2010	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2013	I just have a brief comment for Mr. Werp. We don't get money for a new house in Drammen because you can't afford money you don't have, but someone now knows that you have them next year, and that's next year's budget we're dealing with. I think we learned at school once that kind of reasoning is called a tautology. It is – in a way – such a reasoning that bites itself in the tail and lacks empirical content. As for the State Council, Anundsen and why we didn't do anything when it came through the roof of the last millennium: yes, we did, because then we built a new police house, which was also part of the entire fall-out complex that stands there today, but now accommodates the district court. Then even the municipality of Drammen contributed 40 million. NOK in the advance shooting of funds to get this in place, and we even managed to beg 3 million. kr in contributions from local business. So I pray as deeply as I can: find at least six million. kr in the revised budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2022	The representative Henriksen says that it was not good enough until 22 July 2011, and she is quite right about that. The Gjørv Commission has pointed it out, a number of other important evaluation reports have pointed out the same thing. The Special Committee has pointed it out, and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has pointed it out. It's a confession that's positive, even though it came after a serious incident. Now the representative says they don't have time to wait – but they put in government for another two years after the serious incident. What I said in my previous post was that I was surprised how little one had done in the two years – perhaps because one was waiting for the Gjørv Commission report. Perhaps it did not start some of the measures that one in any case had to take. The situation is now different. Once again, I would like to invite the representatives of the Workers' Party to look into the issue of social security and preparedness from June this year. A number of overviews have been provided of the efforts made since the government change. I think it's just a little uncomfortable trying to bring down the social security and preparedness work to focus on two things. Now there's a couple of things coming up afterwards, three million. kr to the emergency centre in Eastfold and a national emergency centre, which we actually have good control of, as opposed to the previous government. We have a real-life project that is now going to be part of its pre-project in 2016, and then it will be clear what kind of cost framework you add up to in KS2, what kind of decision-making basis that will eventually become clear, and how long it will take. It won't take much longer than what was the starting point of Alna. The representative also says we haven't done anything about helicopter standby. We have dramatically improved helicopter preparedness.We have halved the response time, or clear time, for the Defense Support Helicopters to the police from two to one hour. It's a huge improvement. The maritime preparedness is a lot of work, and it's about more than boats for the emergency team. I think the work of social security and preparedness is being banished in a way that is not worthy of this house, and I hope that one uses the opportunity to better understand what is actually done in this area, in relation to the need that is. I'm not saying we're done with everything – fortunately, we're not. There is still work to be done. But I think it's important that you get this debate on track, too, not just the actual work on social security and preparedness. With regard to the question from Henriksen about who has the operational responsibility for several serious incidents in the same police district, there is no question – that is, of course, the police district in which these events take place. The question is what to do in situations where there are several serious incidents in different police districts. That's three answers, really. One is the robustness of the operating centres, that after the close police reform there will be six operators on each operating centre. The second is that we have neighboring help in place. The third is that we have the Police Directorate, who decides who will take responsibility, if there are multiple incidents in different police districts. So all of this is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2037	The representative Margunn Ebbesen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2040	The representative Henriksen says they started the job with police posts. Yes, they started the job, but they couldn't finish it either. In the years before we took over, it went out of school that didn't get a job. We've made sure that trained police officers now have a job to do. Then I register that neither I nor the representative of Elvenes get an answer to the questions about how the Workers' Party is going to finance it that they do not take into account the consequences of the rental agreement with the Netherlands. What does the Workers' Party mean by compensation transfers? Do you have to stop making atonement transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2047	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2074	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2081	At the request of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, the Minister of Justice made a statement to the Parliament on 2 June 2015 on the temporary armament of the police. In this respect, the Council of State stated that, in his work on the question of temporary arms, he had of course ‘suggested that the Norwegian police should be unarmed’ and that the temporary armament was a response to what was an exceptional situation. The Committee would stress that there has never been a temporary weapon in Norwegian history to such an extent over as long as we now see. Since 21 November 2014, we have had an ‘extraordinary’ situation that has required exceptional measures. I would like to remind you that the majority of the Committee has underlined the importance of not slipping into a sustained armament, which is also in line with what a unanimous collapse has adopted in the context of the examination of Document 8:34 S for 2014-2015. The Committee notes that there are differences in political views as to whether arms are an appropriate instrument in view of the threat situation in the autumn of 2014. In St.meld. No 42 for 2004–2005 — The role and tasks of the police — it is clear that the government wants to continue the system of unarmed police in Norway. In the discussion on whether the police should be armed or not, ‘confidence-making’ and ‘conflict-reducing’ puncture cords to describe the effect of unarmed police on the public. For the treatment of Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015 – the close police reform – the Workers' Party was committed to this should be a quality reform with the aim of developing a knowledge-based and effective police with the capacity for continuous improvement and development. The majority of the Committee has taken note of the fact that the Council of State has stated that it will have a public inquiry into the permanent general armaments of the police, as supported by the Workers' Party. We would stress that the composition and mandate of such an investigation must have broad credibility, both professionally and politically. In conclusion, I would like to point out the negative consequences that the temporary armed forces have had in terms of wetshots and policemen who have staggered to enter the scene in fear of being deprived of the service, among other things. With the serious background to these issues, I would like to address the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, where we ask the government to come back to the Stortinge in order to clarify which assessments will be emphasised in the case of temporary arms, how the Storing can be more closely involved in the future, and how the government can better ensure systematic information on the direct and indirect negative consequences of, among other things. Immediate armament. The Labour Party will also vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 2 in the representative proposal 9 S, where it says: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police have relevant and sufficient training, that wetshots or other episodes are followed up and reported and that the necessary adaptations to the weapon instructions are made in order to avoid such episodes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2108	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2111	Let's make the following clear: Norwegian police are supposed to be unarmed in a normal situation. Any change that would result in the permanent armament of the police must be decided by the Stortinget. Therefore, there is no reason to fear that the temporary armament should slip into a general armament situation. On 21 September 2014, through its spokesman Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, ISIL called for attacks on the United States and Europe. Unbelievable Americans and Europeans were to be killed. The very appeal was so barbaric that the Minister of Justice actually refused to quote it in his statement on 7 June. After the call went out of the IS, barbarism has been executed many times, most recently in the cruel terrorist action in Paris, where 130 innocent people were prevented by the bullets of the IS sympathizers. The basis for the temporary armament is an unsolved threat picture with continued terrorist threat. The right has full confidence in the safety authorities and the Council of State assessments and conclusions to temporarily arm the police in the current situation. The opposite would have been to ignore the threat assessment and expose citizens, police and social institutions to unnecessary risks. The right is of the clear view that the threat picture and a number of terrorist actions clearly show that there is a need to temporarily arm the police also in Norway, not least in the interests of the police themselves, which has been pointed out as an explicit target. In the view of the Right, there is no reason to criticise the Ministry of Justice and Defence in this case and the handling of the terrorist threat. The temporary armament is based on classified information that is not available to the Storting. Therefore, it would be irresponsible for Stortinget to set a time limit for an armed period. In addition, it is constitutionally very worrying, because it will stem from a responsibility and the division of labour between the Stortinget and the government. That is what will be the consequence of adopting the SV's proposals, which we are dealing with in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2122	Let me take the most important first, that is to say take up the proposal of the Progress Party, so I won't forget it. The Progress Party has a different approach than the others in this case. We have come through a wide-ranging debate that has been going on in our party for a long time, that we want to introduce permanent armaments into the Norwegian police. We are aware that we are part of a government that has a different position, but the party-political anchoring implies that we want to introduce such a system. That is what we are proposing now. Otherwise, I think the representative of Elvenes was interested in something important about what is the background to the proposal from SV. How far will the Storting go in directing the government about what they can and can't do? It is that once you have made the bounds that are here, you have to either respect them or try to find ways to change them. However, it is important to take care of the rules adopted. If you don't end up quickly in a system that you don't want to be part of yourself, and which in the worst case leads to an unintended result. The times we discuss Norwegian police here, I feel that Norwegian police are constantly getting good criticism for the job they do. We have good men and good ladies doing a job all over the country. There have been events that most of us would see not happen, accidents where they have been armed. I think that's a focus that shouldn't be on whether or not to ban temporary weapons. Then we better look at the training we have and how we approach this. Now some of us have been on the Justice Committee longer than others, but the feedback, among other things. from the students at the police high school has previously been that the shooting training has been an achillessen for them. That's where most strokes went. I have come to realize that the Council of State says that you're aware of it, and that you've been arrested at the Police College that makes the danger of it decrease. When you go to the step that you let someone carry weapons and sharp ammunition, things can happen. What we want is that it should be done in a controlled and prudent way. Back in time, the police often recruited people who had been in the defense. In fact, in its time, it was a requirement that one should have served the first time. So you had more knowledge and more knowledge about the use of weapons. You have less of that now. This means that it is even more essential to ensure that the training given is correct and good, so that they feel comfortable and safe on the day they stand in a situation where weapons have to be used. In the past, there has been a feeling of inconvenientness in situations due to the presence of the weapon. I think that's gross, and I think it's serious. We have to make sure that those who do the job on behalf of us and the government are comfortable and safe so that they are able to solve the challenges they have faced. If not, we do not do our job of refurbishment so that they do their job in the best possible way. The proposal is thus promoted and justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2139	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2142	I had hoped and thought that when the matter came to debate in Stortinget, the temporary armament had ended, and that we would discuss what had been, and what will be resolved in the future. Now it's not like that. The tragic events in Paris meant that the notified removal of the temporary weaponry was not carried out, and that one still has temporary weapons for a few more weeks. In any case, I would like to say that the issues we have had in the Committee, both the SV's proposal for a representative and the presentation, have led to important discussions and important hearings – and to the important clarifications that stand in the vote today. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I believe it is problematic that we have had arms for as long as we have had. At the same time, I also believe that it is important to have a distinction between temporary arms and permanent weapons, and between whether one is too armed in itself, and whether one supports temporary weapons. The Christian People's Party has in its conclusion been clear on the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. Therefore, it is on the Council of State to have to take these decisions. It is the Council of State and the government who have the classified assessments and classified information, and it is the Stortinge that will check whether he has followed up and done his job in a good enough way. If one shakes too much, this means that the Storting assumes a great responsibility in those decisions, without having the information we needed. That's why I once again stress that I trust that POD makes its assessments in a good way, and that the Council of State makes its assessments in a good way. At the same time, and it may be frustrating for those who disagree with me, I use the opportunity to ask questions and to constantly strive for how Storting's wish for an unarmed police could be restored as soon as possible. I am now a little surprised that it was announced that the temporary armament would end because the threat level had fallen, and that it is now an unsolved threat situation. I still understand that, but when the unsolved threat situation is clarified – which I hope will happen as soon as possible – and if it turns out that the threat level has actually fallen, I have expectations that the temporary weapons will end. In any case, it must not be that temporary arms are an argument that armaments are the best defence against terror – as I see it a little too far along the way that the excellent representative Harek Rivers argues for. We have e.g. referenced to the FFI and the review they have had of the 76 attacks between 2001 and 2014, which showed that the best means of preventing terrorist attacks is not necessarily armed with the police. That's how I perceive Riveres' reasoning far along the way, and I think that is wrong. There I believe, as we have debated many times in the past, that there may be many measures that are better suited to that. But when the concrete threat has been as it has been, I have come to understand that the police must be armed, among other things. based on the fact that they can be objectives in themselves. In the case of the permanent armed forces, I am pleased that the Council of State has notified a public body. I think that's very wise and very correct in the situation we've come into, because it's a pretty fast debate related to armaments. I also understand that, from the police's point of view – when they walk around and feel it on the body every single day – it is at least important that we take that discussion seriously, and that we get a common factual basis to take the debate further on. As I see it today, there are good arguments for having arms in some situations – not necessarily against terror. If you're on a mission and you think you're going into a completely harmless situation, and then suddenly discover that it's very demanding, it's clear that it's going to be challenging not to have weapons on your hip. But there are also a lot of good arguments for why it's not right to have weapons at all times, and they're what I want to say. To be able to have a common basis with a wide range of mandates, which are broad in scope, I believe, in any case, will serve the debate. Hopefully, we can take that debate to rest when, hopefully, the temporary armaments are over soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2161	There's a lot of things that make me happy to live in Norway, even though it's winter half the year and the geographic distances are huge. One of the things that makes me happy to stay here is that the distance between the police and the residents is not great. So in this context, I don't think about geography, the distance is larger or smaller depending on where a cage is. But the distance is small in the sense that there is great trust in the people of the police. Police are a lot of places close to people with good preventive work. Unlike in many other countries, our police have a civil character. They handle difficult situations impressively with sound wit and a good approach to what it means to be police and law enforcement. When I start my post by highlighting this, it's because I want us to have such a police force in the future as well. The question of the armaments of the police is one of more than practical aspects of the weapons themselves. For well over a year, we have had the temporary armament of the police associated with the terrorist assessment that was made last year. Uniform police and defence personnel were among those who were seen to be particularly delayed. For us here at Stortinget, it is difficult to think that we should be able to review the assessment of temporary weapons that was made. We have to stick to the division of labour between big business and government. Therefore, the Centre Party does not support that part of SV’s draft representative, which aims to set a one-year time limit for temporary armaments, until one has to have a decision in Stortinget. This does not mean, however, that we believe the question of long-term temporary weapons is not relevant to Stortinget. It is this very much because still renewing temporary weapons is problematic compared to the fact that the Storting has stated that we are still going to have a generally unarmed police here to land. That is the basic principle, and then the government must be able to approve temporary armaments when the situation requires it. The Central Party, together with the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, has pointed out that it is difficult to consider the temporary armament as temporary, if it continues to be extended and continued for years. For this reason, the three parties stressed the importance of actively seeking alternatives to current armaments practices by the Minister of Justice and Security in contact with the Police Directorate. I would also like to highlight the importance of collecting systematic information on negative consequences, both directly and indirectly, from the police districts before a temporary permit to armaments is due to expire. When considering any extension of the permission, it is important that such information be included in the assessment. There is no doubt that things that are happening in the world also affect the debate here at home on how the police are going to be rusty. The terrorist attack in Paris is a terrible example. There was a terrible error, and it is easy to call for more weapons to avoid this happening here to countries too. However, it is worth recalling that the French police are generally armed. The threat of terror and the consequences of the terrorism actually taking place are not necessarily reduced by the fact that the police have weapons in their belt. At the same time, it's clear that there's situations where it'll be an absolute advantage to have the weapon by hand, we can't talk ourselves out of it. What we have to do is weigh the benefits and disadvantages against each other and figure out what kind of police we're going to have. The centre party still thinks we should have a police force with a civil character, which is generally unarmed, but which should have good access to weapons when needed. The forward-looking stockpiling of weapons is a step forward in this way, and we have to make sure that this system works smoothly and smoothly. The Party of Progress proposes the introduction of a permanent general weaponry. I am pleased that the majority at Stortinget does not support this proposal from the Progress Party. In the future, it is important that we ensure the best possible basis for assessment before new rounds of this debate. The aim must be a truism that guarantees both a safe society and still has a high level of trust and a short distance between the police and the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2184	When I look beyond the hall of my colleagues sitting here, I see that everyone has more seniority than I do at Stortinget – of course except the product from Hordaland – but I understand that in order for the SV's proposal to have been voted into the hall, it must have been promoted as a loose proposal this morning. I have understood that it has not been promoted, and that it is therefore not one of the proposals that we are dealing with here today. But it's with all the humility I say this, I can be wrong. If I'm wrong, we'll vote in favour of SV's proposal, but since I think I'm right, I'm not going to say so much more about it in my post. There is no doubt that we are in a serious situation, as the threat situation is now. But it is also serious when the temporary armament goes out in time. We have temporary weapons primarily because the current threat situation is directed at, among other things. police officers themselves, uniformed police. But even though they're armed to protect themselves, there's a lot of negative consequences with the weapons. Several have been involved in the wetshots that have been fired, and it is also mentioned in the case. Fortunately, it has gone well, at least relatively well, so far, but it is quite serious when we see an increase in the number of wetshots. I also think it's pretty serious when a weapon goes out in time, because a temporary becomes a normal situation. Maybe we don't see the consequence of a normal situation after a year of temporary weapons, but you're involved in normalizing something that's really going to be special and unique and used only for a shorter period of time. Then it's like this, which is also dealt with in the two cases, and it's said that we have a weapon instruction that is not made for cases where the weapon will last as long as it is now. We have a weapon instruction that is really made for the specific, special situations, when the police need to arm themselves to get into a situation. Then we've made it permanent on a temporary basis, and this has led the police to carry loaded weapons. So the police themselves have seen that this may be something you have to deal with, but I believe that this is something we should have seen a long time ago, that there is something the Minister of Justice should have taken care of earlier, because now we have a situation where this temporaryity has been for a whole year, where the police have gone with loaded weapons on their hips. I also believe that as long as we have a situation that is so unsolved in view of the end-time, it is time for us to get a little bit ahead of ourselves of looking at what other ways we can protect our society, what other ways we can face this concrete threat situation that we are now facing, but also possible future threat situations, which do not involve the temporary arming of all the police. Then more have been involved in the events in Paris – cruel and serious events that can also affect us in Norway. But we must not exaggerate a general armament effect against such acts of terrorism. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad referred to the FFI's review earlier this year of various terrorist incidents in Europe and in North America, I think it was from January, where they showed that a general armament of the police would have little effect in most of that type of attack. It has to do with them having the element of surprise on their side. You need heavier weapons than the police usually do. We also saw in Paris that such terrorist acts can happen even if you have a armed police force. What the FFI points to is the main tool against terror, not necessarily the weapon, but the intelligence. We're also going to take that into account here – that it's not just about one instrument. We need to look at all the tools we have available to combat terrorism. I think it is also problematic when we mix the debate on the temporary armament with the desire for general armaments. It is particularly challenging for a Minister of Justice to lead us through this, and who is fully aware that the Storting's will is that we should have an unarmed police force in Norway when his own party promotes proposals for permanent armaments. He's going to put down a sample, and we know that as you call in the forest, you get answers. I hope we get a sample that looks at this in an accurate, good and thorough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2207	The President will draw attention to the fact that there is no proposal from SV. No proposal from SV has been mentioned either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2210	This could be the period during which the permanent armament of the Norwegian police was real. I'm not saying that it happens, but it's a real possibility that when we look back in retrospect, we'll say that the decisive change happened through a habit of this ageing period. The special thing is that it can happen, even though only one of the parties on the Stortinget has it as a political stance, and even if the Stortinget in spring 2015 was in agreement with it. Many politicians have expressed scepticism and concern, a majority in the Stortinget in fact. A quick google show that many of the representatives present here today are among them. Several of them have even mentioned in the media a time frame for when temporary is no longer temporary, but have been permanent. When we risk that the temporary weapons will gradually become permanent, in my view, there are three reasons for this. The first is permanence. The question we have to ask ourselves is, how long can a situation be called temporary? A quarter, a year - or is there absolutely no limit at all? It's very hard to set a limit. If one thinks there is no limit, the distinction between temporary and permanent is absolutely erased. Then a fundamental question is overlooked: how long can a weapon that is temporary in its name stand before it has changed the Norwegian police, the Norwegian community, in a way that is difficult to reverse because it has been common? The second is how the foundation has changed. When the temporary armament was introduced, it was a response to a specific situation where there was a concrete threat to uniformised personnel. It was based on information in a threat assessment by PST and FKTS, Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre. Nearly one year after the armed conflict, the temporary armed conflict was lifted on November 13. The level of threat was lower, and the basis for temporary armaments had come to an end. The police directorate was ready. ‘PST considers that the likelihood of a terrorist act occurring in Norway is lower than in the previous threat assessment, including the likelihood of attacks on uniformed police and defence personnel.’; Then came the terrorists in Paris. The weapons were extended to 10 December due to an inconspicuous situation. The threat picture was still lower. So now eight new weeks have passed, and this time no reason in an enhanced threat picture, according to the directorate: ‘PST has not raised the level of threat since the last extension of temporary weapons. The reason why the Directorate of Police has decided to extend is that the situation is still unbridled and unsolved following the attacks in Paris in November.» Still reduced the threat, another type of threat – yet the answer is still weapons. The special thing is that the weaponry of the Norwegian police is the answer to relatively different threats — a concrete threat to uniformised personnel, an inconclusive and unexplained situation. In any case, those who did not find it worth dwelling on it should answer the following questions: What is the realistic situation in Europe today that cannot be described as incomprehensible and unexplained? Thirdly, I have never said that the weaponry of the Norwegian police is being put in place. I didn't say that, because I didn't mean it, and I don't mean it now either. I think the situation has arisen for real reasons, and it's not an attempt at snuffing. But I ask whether the Progress Party and the Minister of Justice have recently decided to take advantage of the opportunity to continue the debate – why? Well, in our Progress Party against introducing general weapons. In the one thing we are dealing with today, the party – part of the government – makes a proposal in the Storting to introduce it. In the past, the Minister of Justice was busy relieving the connection to the debate on general arms. Now he has actively lifted it up days after the Paris terror. This is a difficult thing. It's hard for Stortinget to review a decision based on safety assessments we don't fully know. Therefore, it should and should be the government that decides on temporary armaments, but it is not unreasonable for the government to have it approved by the Storting after some time and thus provide an expanded basis for it. There is no change to the responsibilities. It's a democratic security valve. Meeting a change of mind and skepticism, but also accepted and increased insight, can be wise, as many parties in this room have done – temporarily. But lasting scepticism and concern without doing anything about his scepticism and his concern reminds me more of disclaimer than wisdom, in my view. I therefore think that the parties on the Stortinget who are against permanent armaments, and the representatives who have expressed concern about development, should think through their positions and whether one should take greater responsibility in different ways for Norway's only slipping into a situation of lasting armaments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2244	I will first refer to the statement I made on 2 June and the hearing on this matter in November. But then I also want to thank the Committee for what is a reflected debate today. There is really a fundamental disagreement about the issue of permanent arms, and I am very pleased that the committee clearly distinguishes it from the issue that is being dealt with here, namely the question of temporary weapons. I'll come back to it a little bit later. Let it be clear that the government is dealing with the Stortinget’s clearly expressed decision that Norwegian police should be unarmed in normal situations. There's no doubt about it. It has been important for us to follow it up. That is why, once we have implemented extensions to the temporary armaments, we have only extended it for eight weeks at a time and obtained the up-to-date threat assessment of the PST in advance of the handling of the police directorate's applications. When the PST of 27 October this year carefully adjusted the threat picture, there is a change in the positive direction and the change is due to major changes related to the Norwegian extremist environment. Several people are likely to be killed in Syria, nine are in custody and targeted for terrorist-related crime in Norway, and one is sentenced to eight years in prison. As Stortinget is well known, the Police Directorate chose to notify a disarming of the Norwegian police, i.e. that one is taking down the temporary armament with effect from 17 November, but the terrorist incidents in Paris on 13 and 14 November this year caused the situation to become inconceivable. I would like to stress that it is quite correct what was said by the interlocutor instead, that it did not change the threat picture. The threat picture is at the same level, that is, slightly lower at the end of October this year than it was at the end of October last year, but it's inconclusive and unclear, according to PST. They expect this to continue for some time to come. It is this inconspicuous and unexplained situation, at the top of the threat assessment, that is the background to the police director’s request for consent to extend the temporary armament until 3 February 2016. I have given my consent to that. But I also want to say that if it becomes relevant with a further extension of the temporary armament beyond 3 February, it will also be natural to address the Size in plenary according to the same model as the statement we have to deal with here today, 17 December, which was held on 2 June this year. In the period of temporary armed conflict, according to the Police Directorate, 25 wetshots have been fired. In the media, the number 26 has been reversed, and this is probably due to double-reporting of one wet shot on either side of last year. I believe it is important that we learn from these and other incidents related to the use of weapons. The reporting procedures around wetshots have been too poor, so I have instructed the Police Directorate to instruct the police officers to report all wetshots. This information shall continuously flow to the Ministry and the weapons instruction was amended at this point in August this year. I do not go into it any further, as it was explained in the hearing on the matter. I also want to stress that the government has been very concerned that we should also look at compensatory measures. Therefore, risk and vulnerability analyses have been carried out, with varying quality, I would say, but the large risk and vulnerability analysis carried out this summer showed that none of the police officers thought there were any alternatives at the time that could compensate for the temporary armaments. We are now working to find even better ways to ensure proper risk and vulnerability analysis as a decision-making basis for any future situation. I have also asked, as the Committee and the Stortinget are familiar with, the Police Directorate investigated the use of electroscopic weapons. Then we are now setting down a public sample to evaluate both the forward-looking storage system, which was introduced in 2013, and the period we have behind us now with medium-term armaments, and compare with other countries and promote proposals on how the armaments regime should be for the Norwegian police in the future. A comment to the representative Nybø: She felt that the Minister of Justice should have taken hold of armaments practices with weapons on his hip in the past. I do not agree with that. I think it's a professional assessment. I also draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that the police directorate in the application has now returned to the old armaments system, that is, the ordinary weapons system, with loaded weapons on their hips.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2268	The police exercise power on behalf of society. How to use the various means of power, tactics and methodology are subjects, but what kind of power you can use is a democratic issue, which must be governed by elected governments. In its consultation opinion of 5 December 2014 on new weapons instructions for the police, the Police Directorate stated that in principle they felt that a warrant should be put in place in order to decide on general weapons, and that this should be further investigated. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has decided that a NOW should be developed on this issue, and that this needs to be properly and thoroughly investigated. My question is then: how will the Council of State ensure that the mandate and composition have great credibility among all parties, and when will this work be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2277	The preparation of mandates and the evaluation of the composition of this public body are already under way. Work on the mandate will be completed in the new year, so that work on the sample can start as soon as possible. This happens in a very ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2282	First, I just want to say that the reason why I'm not so worried about whether this can be a sneaking in, is that POD notified that it should be taken down, and I have reason to believe that it's going to be done when only the situation is settled. That's it. I want to grasp what the Council of State says, that the threat assessment has not changed – the one that came in October, is standing by. At the press conference on 13 November, when the police director justified the disarmament, he was crystal clear that the armaments could not be continued. He said that the police directive no longer allowed it. If the PST had presented the threat assessment that came in October this year, in October last year, he said there would be no weapons at all. Is there a manufacturing that the Council of State shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2289	This is a presentation made by the Directorate of Police in connection with their application for the temporary armed use of the Norwegian police. We've been dealing with the assessments that the Police Directorate has done professionally after the PST has made its threat assessment. I think that's very important, and that's also why we've obtained updated threat assessments from the PST on each application for renewal of the temporary weaponry. But I can't stand for my own cold for the assessments that the Police Directorate has made. The Commissioner himself must explain and defend this. But it is true that the new threat assessment did not bring the level of threat much down. It went down so badly that the police department then thought that there was no need to have the temporary weapon. The fact that there has now been an unexplained situation has made us want to extend it somewhat. I assume that they use the authority to take down the weapon when they believe that there is no longer such an unsolved condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2294	I do not necessarily disagree with the Minister of Justice that we should listen to professional advice. However, I do not think that we can entirely waive the political responsibility for the fact that the alternatives are there. When it's a professional advice that the weapon must be loaded, we'll listen to it. But if the Technical Council is based on the fact that there are no alternatives because the police aren't trained to put the weapon in a situation, I think it's the Minister of Justice's responsibility to make sure they get training in it. The same applies to other instruments needed by the police in future threats. Because it's not always the case that the threat situation is facing uniformed police, which means they have to go with loaded weapons on their hips. Sometimes there are other threats, and other measures can be implemented. Then it is a political responsibility, and it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to ensure that we have the alternatives to general arms that can be used in other threats. What does the Minister of Justice do to get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2301	As I should clarify in my post, it is of course not that wearing weapons is the measure that works. A number of measures have been taken. There are measures we are talking about, and measures we are not talking about, as well as temporary weapons. Bringing down weapons does not mean removing all the measures that have been put in place to meet the threat assessment that PST has presented. You just remove that measure. From alternative measures, we have carried out these ROS analyses, as I mentioned in my post, and nothing has been identified in any police district at the time of the day-to-day threat assessment, which could compensate for the loss of arms. I think we have to deal with that. All police officers recommended the continuation of the weaponry in the summer. Now the situation is different because we have a different threat assessment and a different reason for the temporary armament. In addition, I have asked the police directorate to investigate the electroshock weapon as an alternative to weapons to have a level between pepper spray and weapons, and it is an investigation I expect to get in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2310	The government has warned a NOW, I understand, whether the weapons of the police are reasonable. There is a lot of power in setting up a NOU selection – what the mandate looks like, what members are there – the power to have the government power in the country. But there are also some examples that, in some cases, the Storting itself looks down a commission, it's very few and special things, or – a little more common – the government chooses to have dialogue with the opposition, with a wider magnification, before they put down a public selection. This case is a little special in the way that the Council of State makes a proposal against the government and the plural in the matter, and that the great plurality means something other than the Council of State and his party in this matter. Can the Council of State expect to have dialogue with the parties on the Constitution and the mandate of the NOU Committee before he sees it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2318	Unlike some people think, I'm very dialogue-oriented. I am very concerned that what this sample comes to – no matter what it may be – has a necessary width and anchoring that makes it get the trust that it is necessary to have in a public investigation of this type. I have no problem having an open dialogue with the different parties on the Stortinget about this, but it is also the case, as the representative Solhjell stresses, that with winning the government power there is also the opportunity to reduce this type of selection. But it is important for the government that this becomes a wide-ranging selection with a satisfactory, good mandate, and it is the three elements that I mentioned from the pulpit instead, which will be the main mandate. Then we're open to any recording from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2323	It seemed to me that I was a genuine dialogue-oriented response and suggested that the Council of State would contact the parties on the Storting in one way or another to have dialogue on composition and mandates in advance. One more question, for a proposal will now be made by the members of the Progress Party in the Committee on the introduction of permanent armaments. I know from my experience as a government council in two departments that there is very close contact between the government councils and the government parties in the individual fractions. My feeling of stomach means it hasn't stopped with the new government. I can't come up with a single example that there was a suggestion in Stortinget while I was the government council that my party was in, that I didn't know about or maybe had given a little nod in advance. So my question is, did the Minister of Justice know that the Progress Party wanted to make such a proposal, and did he give a nod, an acceptance or a ‘go’ in any way in advance of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2330	While it may be that the working arrangements between the Progress Party’s large-scale group and its state councils and the SV’s large-scale group and its state councils are different, I can assure you that we have good dialogue – without the state council in any way dictating the proposals to be promoted by the large-scale group. It would have been totally unheard of, in my opinion. At the same time, the Government Declaration states that the government wants to introduce a model in which the police themselves can decide to arm in the districts they think they need it. The government is aware that there is something that will not be implemented, because the Storting has clearly said something else. It is my job as State Council to ensure that the Storting's will is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2335	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2340	These two matters are the Storting very concerned. We note that in the debate. I would nevertheless like to commend both the work of the Committee and the way in which the debate is conducted here in the Chamber, which reflects both a serious and a deep understanding that this matter has many aspects. This is the special representative of the SV I asked for the floor. I don't add any motivation to the proposers except that they are genuinely committed to obtaining a result on this matter. That's good. Then I disagree – and the Right disagree – with the conclusion and the proposal. In our opinion, it is the threat assessment, the threat situation, that must be the focus of Storting's assessment of these kinds of issues. Events and threats are beyond the control of the Storting but affect the citizens of this country in various ways. Then it is suggested that we make the agencies toolbox time-limited by the Stortinge to decide what options the police have for armaments in this case after one year. Then the main question is: what basis is the Storting going to have for that? Everything suggests that we will not be able to obtain a full decision-making basis. Then again the next question, in the extension of it: can we then make a qualified decision? Probably not, believes the Right. Then there is also another aspect that makes us not supporting the proposal. It is that, in our opinion, it is not up to this Chamber to enter and politicise professional, operational and tactical measures affecting the security of the state, possibly the security of its citizens. There we have a distribution of power that is constitutional, and that says it's the Council of State that's constitutionally responsible. It is the Council of State that answers to the Storting what is right and wrong if something goes wrong. If the Storting is to make a decision that goes as deep into the hierarchy as what we are invited to do here, the Right believes that we are distorting that principle of power distribution, and we do not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2351	Let me start with – to the representative Solhjell: if there are anyone in this room who believes that the Group of the Advance Party does not promote the proposals it wants to promote, they are deeply and deeply mistaken. I believe that the Council of State has actually confirmed this now, and the difference between the party of Advancement and SV's big business group is that we do not demonstrate on the outside. We're doing things here, just so that's said. That being said, I think the discussion we have now is really good. Some have said that this is about the value base. If I don't remember faults, after July 22nd, we also discussed the role of policemen in sharp situations. What demands and expectations do we have for policemen in situations where weapons are used against them? My clear understanding of the discussion that came after, was that yes, policemen must be in the utmost consequence those who stand at the forefront, take the strain and, in the utmost consequence, risk their lives. From this point of view, the approach of the Progress Party is that we should, of course, have the best prepared and equipped police force. I heard the representative from the Central Party say that it was now important to register all the negative aspects of the temporary armament. I kind of respect that starting point, but why not turn it around and say 'even the positives'? Why is it that you have to be unilaterally negatively focused on this? I understand that the police community, which represents the vast majority of policemen who are out doing the job, so that we have a safe and good everyday life, has been clear that they want permanent arms because they believe that it will do them the best they can to do their job. So it's said here by the representative Nybø from the left that the most important thing is intelligence. That's correct, but what do we do with the solo terrorist that no one finds out? So you say, well, weapons don't do anything. That's what I think I'm going to do well, because an armed police can actually help reduce the damage. It won't stop the situation, I'm not saying at all, but an armed police can help reduce the number of injuries and, in the worst case, kill. France - Paris - has been discussed here. It is quite obvious that the French police were armed, and yet the loss figures were large. Is there anyone here who would say that if the French police weren't armed, the loss figures would be reduced? In that case, I look forward to hearing that someone claims it from here, and that they can document it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2362	The representative, Mr. Werp, thought I had a clear statement, where he argued against the proposal that SV had presented here, with the two arguments that I thought were best against it. So I want to go through the counter-arguments the same way that I still conclude different things at both points. First of all, it is quite right that the Storting should not be fully aware of – nor should it be a body such as the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – the depth of the PST’s assessment of security, such as: The Security Committee of the Government may. Difor – as it says in the proposal, and as I said in my speech – it should be the government that decides to put in place temporary weapons. On the other hand, I don't think it's unreasonable for the government to present after some time a case to the Stortinget about the foundation, where one goes through it more thoroughly, within the limits that are possible – and perhaps it can also be combined with the fact that one can provide some information in the organs of Stortinget, where one can present classified material. It would be one way the Storting can approve this, if it would take a long time. The second argument is that, in the case of responsibilities, it is a good thing to go long for temporary armaments. I would say that the weaponry of the police is a rather large and fundamental question of the kind of politician to decide on. If temporary armaments were to last a very long time, so long as it goes into an unclear intermediate phase on what is temporary and what is permanent, I found a problematic situation. That is the background to the proposal. We don't want to suggest that the Storting make decisions to get this going, but there's no doubt that I think it's a politician's responsibility to make decisions here in the Storing if something gradually slips into a greater duration. I thought this was a good suggestion about where it could be located. So I'm going to acknowledge from this pulpit that I'm not familiar with protests against the government – nor from parties that have representatives here – cork in the hall or outside the hall. Then I have to add that I have read enough newspapers to get me that there are certain protests outside this hall too, from the Progress Party. But what I'm a little unfamiliar with is that not the dialogue between those in a committee, and the Council of States is so good that one knows all the proposals that are being made in advance. This was the background to the question that I didn't get an answer to: was it that the Council of State knew about this proposal and gave some kind of acceptance for it, or, to ask another way: Was it a protest that came as a surprise to the government – something I myself would be a little worried about if I sat there – or was it an agreed game? That is still the unanswered question I raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2377	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2391	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of up to three lines of reply be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2398	It's going to Christmas, and the time is getting short and expensive. I guess some things are already quite debated, while others may not. This matter is well under way, because we debated it when the near-police reform was discussed in ours. The majority of Stortings then decided that this matter of locating the main seats of the police districts should be left to the Police Directorate, and the Stortinget gave a mandate in that way. The case rapporteur has nothing to subtract from, and nothing to add to, this case. We refer to the comments made in connection with the reform of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2407	Police reform is a major reform. Major changes must be made in the police action, and the reason I stress this is that the government party and the majority have stressed that there are just major changes to be made. The number of officers' offices shall decrease and the number of police districts shall be reduced from 27 to 12. The government has adopted its own guidelines for the location of state workplaces and state service production. There's one bad thing in point three: ‘In deciding whether to locate in case of major structural changes and in case of re-establishment of State activities, the proceedings shall be brought before the Government.’;» I think it is both incomprehensible and a little embarrassing that the government and the majority of the population on the one hand refer to the size and beauty of the changes that will take place with the agreed police reform, while on the other hand they try to get away from the fact that a reduction from 27 to 12 is a major structural change that the mentioned guidelines embrace. I understand why, for admitting it, one also admits that a break with these directions to the government for the location of state workplaces. And why is this so important to us in the Center Party? Well, that's because we know that the distribution of government jobs is also linked to local and regional development. When allocating such jobs, we need to take different political considerations in addition to the professional assessments that obviously have to be taken into account. Now we have the special situation that the police director yesterday, the day before this big debate, made the final decision on where to place the police champ's office. I think there's something politically unmusical not to wait a few days with it. However, the centre party is forced to stick to the decision of the Police Directorate, and we are also forced to stick to the grip of the big crowd. Finally, I would like to stress that if government guidelines are to be credible – something they should be – then the government itself must be able to follow them. They don't do that in this case, and the case-speakers of the Rivers are quite right in saying that the matter has been debated, but I think that the majority of the population and the government thought there was a reason to adopt the state guidelines for the localization of state jobs when they did, and then there should also be a reason to follow them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2423	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2426	The representative would like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2431	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2434	It is said that politics is the art of the possible, and I believe that the near-police reform is a good expression of it. The fact that there has become such a broad and good majority in Stortinget is due to good political judgement on the part of the majority in this House. However, politics is also the arena of the rematches, and that is what I think the centre party here very clearly shows. Here they're trying to run a rematch in a case where there's a broad political majority in the hall against the views of the Central Party, under the guise that it should be contrary to some guidelines. I think it's special, and I think it's getting even worse when I can read in today's media that the representative Jenny Klinge goes into the throat of police director Humlegård and says that he doesn't have to respect the Storting as an institution because yesterday he presented the location of the new main seats. We have had many discussions in this Chamber, and not least in this committee, on attitudes, culture and leadership. If it really is the opinion of the representative, Mr Klinge, that the Police Directorate should not implement the decision taken by a large majority in this Chamber because one party wants to re-arrange the main seat location, then I do not think the representative has understood what the discussion of attitudes, culture and leadership is about. What the police director has done is, of course, to deal with the broad majority, to deal with the obvious governance signals and clear management that this magnificence, a clear majority in the Stortinget, has asked the Police Directorate to do. In addition, a thorough process has been carried out. Then you can think of what you want about the outcome and the concrete location, but it's a good thing that a clear majority in this Chamber has said that it has to be decided by the Police Directorate. There would be a lack of service if the Police Directorate had added up to something else because one party meant something other than what the broad majority does. So I hope that the representative Klinge agrees with me that decisions in Stortinget go ahead of the government's guidelines, and that it is the police director's duty to comply with Stortinge's decision in accordance with the clear instructions the police director has also received from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2446	I'll make it short. When it comes to the direction lines of the government for the location of state workplaces, it is clear that in the event of major structural changes, the matter should not be decided by the government, but by the government. Then I just wondered what was the reason why the localization of police officers was not going to the government. Was it that the changes did not fall under major structural changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2453	First, let me stress that in the work carried out by the Police Directorate, they have consistently laid the foundations of the guidelines, with the exception – of course – of the decision-making body. It is the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation that is responsible for these guidelines, but a political agreement has been reached and a settlement in this process says that it is the Police Directorate that will take the final decision. I maintain – and I hope the representative Klinge agrees – that decisions in Stortinget go ahead of the government's own guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2459	Absolute - it has not been given that decisions taken by the Storting are reasonable for that reason. But when it applies to exactly these directions, it was the way one should go about it. The work on the police reform was presented as a proposal by the government, where one went in so that, as far as I am concerned, POD would decide the location of police officers, so this was something that the government itself took a position on and intended to do in this way. I think it is contrary to the wording that, in the event of major structural changes, it should not be left to the budget, but should be left to the government. I ask you one more time: is it really so that the Council of State thinks that a reduction from 27 to 12 is not a major structural change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2466	That's probably a rhetorical question. This is the largest reorganisation of Norwegian police in modern history. It is obvious that this is a major change, and I must say that I am a little surprised that the representative Klinge so clearly says that the Storting does not always make reasonable decisions. It is therefore true that the Stortinget has not only taken a decision, but has taken a decision by a broad majority, and there is a great deal of agreement that we should make the Norwegian police more forward-looking and better through this structural reform. One of the elements that we then agreed on was that it is the Police Directorate who – based on a professional assessment, including consideration of the national guidelines – will carry out the final location. I think it is important that both the representative Klinge and all of us relate to what the Stortinge have decided. So it's like guidelines are guidelines. It doesn't mean that you have to be slave to these if you think it's a basis for doing it a different and better way, which the Storting has thought it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2471	All right, then this thing is settled, and the debate is off. With the government we have, there are some new structural changes – at least try it – in the future. If one assumes that the government takes its own guidelines seriously, does the Council of State see that new structural changes will be implemented in the same way, as has been done with the police reform and the location of police officers, or will the government have a different attitude in other matters in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2476	I am responsible for the implementation of the close police reform and have been responsible for contributing to the creation of the close police reform. I think I'm going to deal with what's my constitutional responsibility and not speculate in hypotheses about any future ways of organizing and implementing this. But I would like to say that we have done the work of the near-police reform in a very special and quite untraditional way, with a broad involvement along the way in the process, where it has been important that we find the good solutions as early as possible. There has been a process that has been untraditional. That means that sometimes you have to choose untraditionally to make sure that you get the best possible result. I am proud that the Storting has agreed with such a broad majority on a near-police reform, which I am absolutely convinced will give us a much better, closer and stronger police for the future. I'm recording that the Center Party uses every opportunity and a lot of power to try to make the opposite impression. I hope they don't succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2483	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2488	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for having dealt with this matter in a good manner in the Committee. I would also like to join in what the Council of State says about this being a very important element of the whole reform of the neighbourhood police, where the point was to give the police greater freedom under responsibility and greater freedom to give the police the opportunity to control developments to a greater extent and thus create more security and predictability. When I asked for the floor, it was in the extension of the decision taken yesterday by that police director. Now the decision is taken, and we have to look forward. In my own county we have a co-located central where all the three emergency beds are sitting, just separated by walls that can be moved. It's been working for six years. They have a great deal of experience, expertise and good practice to coordinate rescue operations, missions and requests to the respective emergency situations. The results are in style -- they're good. They have been extremely important contributions to an effective and good rescue service in Buskerud, and for Westfold's part also in the case of fire, because the fire emergency centre also covers Westfold. My concern is to make it very clear that the qualities, the coordination and the competences that have been built up there need to be maintained in a way in the new and large district that enables the inhabitants of the South-East Police District to experience the same security, the same competence and the same good system of which the inhabitants of Busherud have benefited, and which also includes the inhabitants of Westfold in terms of fire. It is important to signal because the Drammen project has been a national preparatory project with very good results and with a high level of production of good safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2497	Governments were at the heart of it; politics is the art of possible. I have heard another variant – that politics is the art of the impossible. I think perhaps the Council of State has moved more towards that in its contribution. But I'm not going to contribute to a rematch. We have just had a budget debate where I told you about the little downfall we felt in the Drammen when we did not get money for the Drammen thinghouse. With regard to the choice of the main seat for the new South-East police district, there was another descent for the capital of Buskerud. We have argued heavily and hard for location to Drammen earlier. The local team leader in the Police Federation in the North and Søndre Buskerud police districts have also done the same. So it wasn't like that, even though the Police Directorate recommended the Drammen in the first round. It wasn't the same downhill for the Council of State, I assume. But the arguments of the chief officials of the police in our district were many and heavy. I'm just going to mention one of them here and now, and that's what Mr. Werp was talking about: as the only place in the country, Drammen already has six years of experience with a common center for emergency situations, which is going to be an important element in the new police districts. We are also close to Oslo and can easily become a reserve centre for Oslo. It has helped raise preparedness in the central eastern region, and it is important now that the new main seat does not become the Drammen, that we do not throw that security, competence and the money that has been invested out of the window. Because that's not the population of the new, big police district served at all, whether we live near Skien, Tønsberg or Drammen. I have so far criticised Right-wing Judicial Officer Anders B. Werep for saying a little vaguely about this important matter before the decision was taken. We can continue this debate in local media. Here I intend to signal that I fully agree with what Anders B. Werp says. It is important that the competences and the environment built up do not go into disintegration and must be rebuilt. These are very good results of the co-location, as Mr. Werp explained. Everyone knows where everyone is at all times, sets up for each other, sets up for the people. It gives you good response time, and it has given you better and better results as you work together to go better and better. It should also allow the populations of the newly merged South-East Police District to benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2508	I'm not going to get involved in where the administration offices of the new police districts are to be located, but I have strong opinions about the names of the new police districts. When it has been said that some of the police districts should be named after heaven, I have – with all due respect – believed that there were job titles in the work. Some police districts are now named after counties, when they cover a county – that makes sense. Others are named after the region they cover, e.g. Inland — also sensible. But then there's someone who's going to have names for heaven's directions, and there I have to say I'm going to have problems. When it comes to calling a police district of East, I really have to ask what it means, and especially when there are four or five other police districts covering areas in the country that are further east than the police district of East. This sounds almost Soviet, where you could call it police districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc. I have kindly allowed myself to be credited to both the Directorate of Police, the Ministry of Justice and Security and to the Justice Committee of Stortinge, with a strong recommendation that we use the names of geographical units that are already known. Calling a police district to the East is meaningless, it is misleading, and I even want to say quite alienating. The police district of East is a merger of the police districts of Romerike, Follo and Østfold. It's a geographical unit that we first saw in 1969, when we got the new diocese of Borg diocese – thus Eastfold County and Akershu County except the municipalities of Asker and Bærum. Then we have a geographical unit on which we have the name Borg, and that is why I have allowed myself to propose that the police district should be called Borg Police District. It says something. At least it says far more than calling a police district after a particular direction of heaven. The name has given rise to many enquiries from police. I understand that the question of the names of the police districts is also involved in the police. So it is simply a very kind recommendation to the Minister of Justice that he and the Department and the Police Directorate can look at the names again. The police district of East should become the Borg police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2535	Before the President proceeds, the President shall establish that the Council of State responsible is not present in the Chamber. Now the President further assumes that the current Council of State has a certain overview of the matter, but it will be a little up to the representatives to accept that this matter should be started without the Council of State, Listhaug, being present in the Chamber. Then the president assumes it's going well. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to six lines of response after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2546	The Council of State that is present has a good overview of the matter, and the government is present. Then I think this is going to be all right. The proposal for a representative is good, but it has been obtained for the longest time by 161 out of 169 representatives in the Stortinget, who have made a settlement some time ago about 18 points of convergence. The refugee crisis is international, and it must be resolved first and foremost in cooperation with others. It is important to look forward to this matter, and Norway as a nation must contribute to a peaceful solution outside our country, in Syria, and also strengthen the humanitarian response in the neighbourhoods to more conflicts. The high number of refugees and asylum seekers puts Europe and Norway to the test. Norway shall fulfil its obligations under international conventions. The overall effectiveness and simplification of legislation and practices on the handling of asylum applications must not weaken the legal certainty of asylum seekers. There was also some of the basis in the agreement, with these 18 tightening points that have been agreed upon. Europe is now experiencing a historic influx of refugees and migrants. The presence of asylum seekers in Norway has also increased sharply in recent months. Norway received more asylum seekers in October alone than in the first eight months of 2015, and by 31 October of this year it had arrived about. 22 000 asylum seekers in total, i.e. more than 12000 more than at the same time last year. In the last few weeks, many have come across Storskog in eastern Finland, and lack of reception capacity – especially in northern Norway – is and has been a major challenge. As of today, the situation at Storskog is different. It's gone from getting many to getting almost zero -- and many times zero. Such a situation has occurred earlier in the autumn, and as it is, in Finnland, with high arrivals of asylum seekers across the Storskog border, it is working to ensure accommodation in the border areas, so that it is organised for a rapid and minimally resource-intensive process in cases where the outcome is highly likely to be rejected — back to Russia. As early as 19 November of this year, a cross-political agreement was reached with restrictive measures to limit inflows of those who do not have a real need for protection. 161 of 169 depositors are behind this agreement. The majority of the rooms and the contracting parties agree to provide political support for the implementation of immediate measures to restrict the arrival of people without the right to protection, and to continue discussions on measures to address the situation of municipalities in terms of reception and settlement – which are particularly challenging for municipalities – and thus also to prepare for the proper integration of persons with the right of residence. It has been important to ensure the return of persons with manifestly groundless asylum applications to Norway and persons who have been denied the application and to give this work the highest priority. The government has. In addition, it has been important to ensure the facilities of Storskog and Kirkenes. Adequate resources shall be provided and have been provided for the return of persons who are not entitled to stay in Norway. It is good that the government has ensured that both the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Police Department have been given the opportunity to exceed the budgets, with an estimate. It is necessary and important that the UDI is both relieved and strengthened by the collection of necessary and competent personnel — lawyers and other key personnel — from other public agencies. From the agreement reached, the asylum agreement, there is reason to point out that there is agreement that a direct flight system is being established for the main countries of dispatch in order to ensure the rapid return of asylum seekers without a real need for protection. The parties to the agreement concluded this agreement on 19 November this year, and I believe that most people in the hall are well aware of it. At the end of November, at least 40 officials from the Foreign Office of the Police were in place in Kirkenes to deal with the arrivals in South Varanger, and there were 150 people in the UDI who worked to deal with asylum applications. There is reason to believe that precisely the issues and handling of Storskog have been prioritised and dealt with on an ongoing basis, and that it has also produced results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2581	There should initially be no need to speak on this matter, given that the realities of this proposal are dealt with in the asylum agreement of 19 November, as was also mentioned. However, the majority of the Committee, on the grounds of formality, refused to adjust, move in and out of its comments and proposals when the matter was to be referred to the Committee. Therefore, there is a need to make some clarifications on the part of the Workers' Party. But it must be allowed to say that I'm probably a little surprised by the majority's principlerism on the formalia. The situation in the asylum field is demanding. It requires, in our view, the widest possible political cooperation and flexibility. It has been important for the Workers' Party to ensure that the Government has the necessary powers from the Storting to deal with the situation. That is why we also helped to ensure that the change in the Foreign Affairs Act could be dealt with quickly here in the Stortingen in the autumn. I'm now recording that the roughness is not completely reciprocal. So to the matter. In the vote, reference is made to the asylum agreement concluded on 19 November. The use of the word ‘already’ by the Committee indicates that it was early and that it was not. The working party does not support the use of the word ‘already’, simply because that agreement could have been concluded earlier if the Progress Party had not spent precious time on internal clarifications and seminars. Moreover, a number of the points in the asylum agreement are points where the government already had or has powers to act, which they could and should have done at an earlier date than 19 November. This is not least about the necessary resources in the form of case handlers and police officers that should have been in place, as I said, much earlier. The working party shall also be associated with the Centre Party in the proposal to provide for the construction of a new border station on Storskog. There is a great responsibility on the government to cut through, clarify the construction of a new border station, set a deadline for planning the completion and the start of the construction project in 2016. After all, the acute situation in the autumn with a high influx of asylum seekers has almost flooded the need for a new building and, in addition, the situation has shown a government that has been lagging behind with the necessary measures and resources. Now we have to be able to have at least two thoughts in our head at the same time: both deal with the day today and anticipate the needs we have in the years to come. The border station is very important as part of the infrastructure also in Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Therefore, it is necessary and important to make the decision now in the autumn, so that we will not be able to make any further progress on the task.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2594	Both the rapporteur and the previous speaker have explained the facts in this matter, so I thought it might be interesting to find out where the centre party really stands on these issues and on this matter. After the Workers' Party, they have taken violent action when it comes to winging and not knowing which legs to stand on when it comes to immigration, asylum and refugee policy. Earlier in the harvest, we could read the following in the Daily: ‘We can accept the refugees who are coming, and rather drop wage increases one year.’ This is a quote from the representative of the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtigen. In the paper's essay, it said: ‘The Per Olaf Lundtigen Central Party went to Greece last week together with a bunch of political advisers, to gain a better understanding of the refugee situation. On Saturday he visited the island of Lesbos, to see the refugee crisis closely." Having seen this refugee crisis closely, he came to this conclusion: ‘The centre batch has not been sufficiently clear to date. That's why I went down so that we could understand the situation better." After he understood this situation better, he came to the following conclusion: «In addition to Drammen’s Official Journal, he says that Norway must be prepared to receive as many as 100000 refugees. ‘It is not certain that it is unrealistic that 100 000 refugees come to Norway. Then we have no choice. We have to accept those who are coming," he says to Drammen's magazine. Then I quote him again: ‘I have no idea how many will come or how long this situation will last. It depends entirely on how the international community responds.’» Further: ‘We have no choice but to accept them, because it is not an alternative to close the border.’ Closing the borders was quite unimaginable for the Senter Party a little earlier in the fall. Since then, they have arranged to close the borders several times, and they have helped to promote this proposal. It might be interesting to hear what is the Central Party's policy today, at least, because we see the same pattern at the Center Party as we have seen at the Labour Party all year round. They have been opposed to sending out many people, returning them to the country of origin, then setting up charters from the Churches to Afghanistan. We have witnessed that the Workers' Party has stood in this room and criticised that a child has been returned to, among other things. Afghanistan at a high pace, and pointed out to the Children of Great Britain, in order to criticise the lack of control and to send out quickly enough those who do not have protection needs. We have witnessed that the Workers' Party has also disagreed with itself on integration issues whether radical Islamism is a problem in Norway or not. We have witnessed that the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has been up to several times in favour of and against banning the use of jars in the public space, until we made a concrete proposal. We've only witnessed in the past week that the Workers' Party's Vice-Chairman has managed to wing from wanting to ban hijab in primary school to want to fight high heels and sexualisation of children. It is unlikely that a party leader has been hounded so hard and brutally by his own party traps and colleagues over the whole country. This has the characteristics of the Working Party in all these questions. That's probably the main reason they didn't get into this field when they were in government either. It's a continuous seminar. Someone goes out and is a little harsh and is going to clean up and sort out the problems, but then they get little resistance, or then they come up with concrete suggestions according to what they have said, and as they get opportunities to implement things, they turn around. It is clear that this has obviously affected the former partners of the Centre Party. Since this issue has been resolved, we can rejoice that we have a powerful government that takes action to deal with major challenges before the opposition gets to do some of the world's things. But I think it's okay that the Central Party should at least clarify its position on these issues, so that we can know if we should listen to the representative Lundtigen, who believes that we should just drop salary increases and accept those who are coming, or whether we should tighten up and do something about the huge challenges of massive immigration and migration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2640	This autumn it has been important to have control of the border at Storskog. The flight route was new and unexpected. There have been a high number of asylum seekers a few weeks ago. Some of those who came have spent a long time in Russia and therefore do not need protection. It is important to reduce the number of people from this group in order to ensure measures for those in need of protection. However, the measures must not impair the legal certainty of each asylum seeker or the need for proper treatment. In order to reduce the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection, the majority of Stortinget recently agreed this autumn on a settlement with points to safeguard the institution of asylum. The number has decreased over the last few weeks, and the reason for its complexity – colder season, Russian actions, Swedish policies and Norwegian policies. The points in the agreement are consistent with the points in this proposal by the Central Party, and the Christian People's Party will therefore not vote in favour of the proposals, as the majority of the Committee has also concluded. One of the most important things we do now through the conciliation is to provide for a faster return of people without a basis for protection. The rapid return of people without protection is good for those concerned, and society can give priority to those who will be. It is also important to maintain the system of the asylum institution. Faster return and shorter processing times require a general streamlining and simplification of legislation and practices. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to do this now, but will stress that changes that are being made should not weaken the legal certainty of asylum seekers. This is a prerequisite on our part for all the contractions made in the harvest. For the past few weeks, the Christian People's Party has received several reports of concern that the new practice of Storskog may be contrary to Norway's international obligations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that our legislation takes care of those people who have a real need. Changes have been made to get control at Storskog border station. They must not hit these persons. We therefore made reservations about our support for Prop. 16 L that this should not affect people who use Russia as a fluctrate and e.g. only have a tourist visa in the country. International law states that no one can be returned to a country where they are at risk of persecution or of being sent to a third country where they are at risk of being sent back to persecution. The Court of Human Rights has held that this principle is an absolute rule without exception. The Christian People's Party understands that, in today's situation, we are sending back people who have stayed in Russia and thus do not need protection, but we are critical that people who need protection may not be able to process their application here even if they have not stayed beyond having used Russia as a refugee. When the government has also instructed that this group loses the right to legal aid, there is reason to follow this situation in the future. In the agreement of 19 November, a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has stated that changes in legislation and practices should not impair the legal certainty of asylum seekers. This is crucial. We cannot, as a rich legal state, accept that Norway is breaking our international obligations and our own principle of dignity and humanity, even if that is an extraordinary situation. The Christian People's Party looks forward to further constructive cooperation with the government, now with new government council. The Christian People's Party is pleased, and supports, the new objectives underlying the broad agreement that Norway is now going to pursue. The new refugee situation is demanding, and the Christian People's Party will continue to contribute to Norway's pursuing a fair, predictable and humane policy based on the consensus now reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2653	In autumn 2015, South Varanger became very demanding because of the large influx of asylum seekers across Storskog. In one week, over 1,000 asylum seekers from Russia came to Norway. It became quite clear that the police and the UDI did not in any way master the situation. This can be understood from the unexpected and rapid development in the use of Storskog as an entrance to the Schengen area, but at the same time it must be said that it took a long time before the responsible authorities, both political and administrative, entered the situation. South Varanger municipality remained standing without the support that must be expected when acute situations arise. This is the background to the draft representative that I have been promoting with Marit Arnstad and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. We put forward eight proposals for immediate action to deal with the rapidly increasing influx of asylum across Storskog. The centre party also took the initiative in a broad political settlement in order to meet the refugee crisis in the autumn. I am pleased that a broad majority of the parties sat down and worked out a series of measures that will help to meet the situation in a coordinated way. Several of the proposals we put forward in the proposal for a representative have been dealt with through these measures. We are happy about that, so we don't need to retake them. Two of our proposals were to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with Russia and to ensure that the 2007 withdrawal agreement applies to persons who are not entitled to stay in Norway. The Council of State refers in its reply to the opinions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where reference is made to the establishment of the dialogue, and the use by the Government of the possibilities for return in the works of agreement. I have recorded that the situation has changed, and that it is now far less than this limit. I am pleased that the government has finally reacted and finally achieved that the situation has changed. The question is whether it could have been done much earlier. I would also like to comment on the elusive response of the Council of State to our proposal 4, to make additional funds available to South Varanger to enable the municipality to deal with the exceptional situation of asylum seekers. I register that the government has money left over at the end of the year. The two-million Christmas present. kr to municipalities whose only benefit is that they have adopted a combination of municipalities. I expect the government to be at least as generous with municipalities that have made an extra effort in the management of the refugee crisis, and that have incurred additional expenses in this regard. I hope they will be satisfied with a Christmas present that is proportionate to the extra costs. The Council of State refers to the discretionary framework and assumes that it is possible to provide some compensation to municipalities that have exceptional expenditure due to the asylum and refugee situation. It's not far enough. I had hoped for a more positive attitude, but I note that the government in its proposals for additional appropriations to meet the refugee crisis has been less willing to meet the costs of the municipalities. This is very unfortunate. On the one hand, government party representatives warn that large influxes of refugees will go beyond the welfare offer to other residents. On the other hand, they leave enough resources to the municipality to avoid this. This must now be corrected by the government, after a large majority of the UK yesterday reached an agreement on an integration settlement. Fortunately, all expenditure incurred by municipalities in the context of their residence and in connection with the host municipality role for reception has to be fully financed. In the Central Party budget, we have found room to compensate the municipalities. This applies to all municipalities that have established asylum receptions and emergency receptions, as well as to specific funds for Råde and Sør-Varanger, which are hosts for the registration centres. At one point, the Council's response is not satisfactory for us. In the proposal for a representative, we ask the government to carry out work on the construction of a new border station on Storskog. The Council of State does not commit the government to any progress plan for this absolutely necessary project, but only refers to the government's work on the matter. I therefore take up proposal 8 in the draft representative, where Stortinget asks the government to continue the work on the construction of a new border station on Storskog. Finally, I would like to endorse the comments from the Workers' Party in the setting. We wanted to go into them and out of some others at the surrender meeting, but we did not get to do so because the case had not been brought before the Justice Committee and the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, and the majority of the committee did not open it. As for Keshvari's challenges, I see that the representative Lundtigen is in the room, and I expect him to answer them himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2681	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2684	When we discuss Storskog or the refugee situation in general, it is important that we always assume that the policy we pursue must be part of a larger strategic policy based on the international situation in which we live. We must have a comprehensive policy towards the Middle East and the countries from which the refugees come, all the way up to the integration work we have in Norway. This policy must be linked and must be part of a whole. It must be carried out in cooperation with an international community in order to develop a situation in the countries of origin that enables their governments to improve their ability to protect their own people – whether in Afghanistan, Iraq or elsewhere. Or you can contribute to a peace process or join in the joint effort that allies have to do to actually fight down groupings that are a direct threat to both us and other communities. Looking at the Great Forest and the refugee situation, this is part of a common European challenge. We have had a very special situation this year with a large and strong influx of refugees. With the situation we have had on the Schengen external border - of which Storskog is part - it was absolutely necessary to tighten up. We cannot have a situation where we have such open borders at the external border of Schengen that it threatens the visa-free travel opportunities and the free movement rights we have within Schengen. For the Left, it is extremely important that we maintain the free borders in Europe. Schengen's external border must be monitored, and we must take our responsibility at Storskog. We are behind the broad consensus that has developed in Stortinget. This concerns both the work to get emergency measures and the attempt to reach a broader consensus on the refugee situation and the integration work that we get afterwards, since many of those who have come, after all, are going to stay here, with the consensus we have from yesterday. When you tighten up - without going into detail - it is absolutely crucial, and everyone agrees, that groundless asylum seekers get their cases dealt with quickly. They also have to get out of the country quickly. It is essential for the protection of the asylum institution itself. The danger of this is that you can go too far. There will be people who actually need that protection, who won't get their things handled well enough. It is a particular responsibility for the government to ensure that those who actually have a need for protection receive the necessary protection and that all those entitled to it are given the necessary procedure in Norway. Otherwise, we are also undermining the consensus that the unwarranted applications need to be issued quickly. It is not to criticize anyone, but it really makes sense when we read in the Evening Post about these two Chechens who have been in Norway, have their cases dealt with and yet end up in Chechnya, tortured and killed. We have to make sure that we don't end up in -- that we tighten too far into the situation we're in. The broad consensus is important. I think the Stortinget has done a very good job during this fall, but we are still in an early stage of a new situation. We're not coming back to the old normal. We must then ensure that we are able to achieve this balancing well in the years ahead. As regards yesterday's integration unit, it is absolutely essential that we meet the challenge of society. For the Left, the situation of children on the run has been particularly important, and we are also very pleased that the childcare provision for children on the receiving side is strengthened in the context of that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2701	The situation that has arisen after the war in Syria for five years and hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to Europe was initially handled very poorly by the government. We had no readiness to handle this. It's been critically critical of SV, and we're going to keep going. On the other hand, it was a little harder to understand what happened in Storskog – I understand that it was difficult to predict. But one could also have acted earlier there, and what has worried SV the most, is that in the chaos that arose, the political majority has allowed themselves to be pressurised for irresponsible legal proceedings, over a weekend, on points that are just touching the seriousness that the representative Elvestu was up here talking about – Chechnya is part of Russia. Amnesty, Norwegian Public Aid, Helsinki Committee, NOAS, a number of lawyers and experts in the field and several organisations say that Norway is now committing violations of international law in Storskog. This is serious, and it is because, in practice, the possibility of seeking asylum has now been completely curtailed. You send people back to Russia who do not live in Russia, and then you can end up being sent to a country where you have no opportunity to get asylum treatment anywhere, or to a country where you are at risk of being subjected to serious human rights violations. What is termed ‘non-refoulement’ in the professional language is not respected. The whole reason why SV could not be part of that law is precisely the criticism that has now come against this. So it's serious. The second thing that is serious is that last year the Swedish authorities took note of the need to resolve this in an international context, together with the partners in Dublin and Schengen. The Stortinget voted against that. I have asked the government: what initiatives has the government taken to solve this in international organisations? I have been told that it is in Erna Solberg's statement. I've read through it, and I'm not finding a single initiative, just following up some of the initiatives that others are taking. This is critical, and it is serious. I listen to the tone here between the partners also that it is not only idyllic, and I sincerely hope that for the parties who are now talking about us following international law, it is not about what is stated in a text of the agreement, but about what is going to happen on the ground in practice in dealing with the asylum applications that are being submitted and have to be delivered. In all cases, the coverage of legal aid has now also been removed from some of these that come over Storskog. Then you don't have the guts, sail if you might have a need for protection. Then there are two other things I should mention. One is that we were now informed that Norway is sending families of children in many low degrees on bicycles back across Storskog, and it is four miles to the nearest city. It's not worth Norway. That doesn't mean they're going to be in Norway, but that means we have to take the responsibility that makes them able to get into a house in a place where they don't freeze. Norway does not need to treat children and children’s families in this way if they have tried to apply for asylum in Norway and they may not have a need for protection. I must say, that's terrible. It's scary, and it can be serious. The second is a question of whether initiatives have been taken against Norwegian authorities from Russian authorities. There are border inspectors in Storskog who say it has been done before. I've asked Minister of Justice Anundsen about it twice and got the answer that now we have nice conversations with Russia, but that's not what I've been asking for. I have asked: what initiatives have been taken before? Have such initiatives been taken? For these border inspectors, who stand up with names, say that those initiatives could have solved this situation before, and it's quite serious. I see Anundsen now shaking his head, but then he could have answered me. Now I have sent another question, so he has the chance to answer what has happened before, not what has happened now, but the initiatives that were taken several years ago. These initiatives may even have been taken under the Red-Green Government, but how have they been followed up? It's very important to know that there could be a solution that could have made many people escape this terrible situation that has arisen there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2715	The situation on Storskog looks very different now than when the proposal for a representative on immediate measures to deal with the rapidly increasing influx of asylum at Storskog border inspection posts was promoted. Firstly, the arrival of asylum has fallen considerably. In fact, no asylum seekers have arrived in Storskog since 30 November this year. Also on a country-by-country basis, arrivals have been significantly reduced. As the arrivals at the moment seem to have stopped above the Norwegian-Russian border, our main focus now is to deal with matters under the new provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act and to return as many as possible of those who came over Storskog. The Government has instructed the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Police Directorate to give priority to dealing with these matters and to ensure that they are returned without right of residence in Norway as soon as possible. By the end of week 50, we have returned a total of 7,279 people without a legal stay. As of 15 December, about 160 were returned to Storskog after the change in the Foreign Affairs Act and the instructions for UDI, UNE and POD came into force. The figures must be included with a reservation on any fault records. It is important that returns are carried out as efficiently as possible in terms of costs and resources. The government has assessed different measures, including air bridges from East Finland to different countries of origin. This is also one of the measures promoted in the draft representative. Long-range flights are not possible from East Finland after what I have been informed, as none of the airports in the region are prepared to do so. However, we are constantly working to streamline the return work, and at this stage it is most appropriate that most of those to be returned to their country of origin be returned from Oslo Airport. Many asylum seekers who crossed the Great Forest have to be returned to Russia. This is a priority task for the police. Those returns must be implemented in dialogue with the Russian authorities within the framework of the readmission agreement. The fact that we are now giving priority to work on returns does not mean that applications from those who may be granted residence in Norway are not to be dealt with. However, I would like to stress that the asylum agreement provides for priority in asylum matters, and it follows from the agreement on measures to meet the refugee crisis that return should be given the highest priority. In addition, it is my particular opinion that active return work limits the arrival of several groundless asylum seekers and makes us better able to use resources rather than resources on people who are going to have their future in Norway. Finally, let me summarise some of the measures we have taken to meet the challenges of Storskog. We decided on 11 September 2015 to establish a regime of arrivals in the municipality of Sør-Varanger in the light of the increasing asylum arrivals at Storskog. Four days later, the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police established a team in Kirkenes that registered the applicants. This has been followed up by several actions, including additional appropriations for the strong recruitment of the PU, the East-Finland Police District and the UDI. On 13 November, we proposed tightening up the Foreign Affairs Act. These came into force as early as November 20th, and in this respect I will give tribute to the Storting for the unusually rapid treatment of the proposition. Five days later, November 25 at 4 p.m. 7:00 p.m., instructions to the police, UDI and UNE entered into force on procedures for the prompt processing and return of persons who do not have or will not receive a residence permit in Norway. Furthermore, we have stepped up territorial controls in border areas, introduced temporary internal border controls, established arrival centres both in eastern Finland and in the Council, and established some specific organised accommodation sites close to Storskog. We have also engaged in dialogue with central Russian authorities and intensified the dialogue at local level to find common solutions to the influx of asylum in the north and the return of persons who do not have a need for protection in Norway. This work is now ongoing and the dialogue with the Russian authorities is good. The government will continue to work to ensure that the measures contained in the agreement are implemented and that asylum inflows are managed in a good and safe manner. Finally, I hope that Stortinget will admit that I came a little late. It's probably further from Nydalen than from Theatergata.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2732	We notice that, and I'm sure the Council of State will also take note of that for the future. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2737	Yeah, for me, she's gonna get that snail. I would like to welcome the State Council to Stortinget as the new Minister for Immigration and Integration – congratulations on the appointment. I heard with interest what the council said, and on how much weight you now put on fast returns, a streamlined return work. We agree that is important. But I could imagine hearing with the Minister, who also has ‘integration’ in his title: The settlement of refugees, who have also come across Storskog, becomes an important task in months and years to come. A large number of people are to be settled in the municipalities, and the Prime Minister is calling on us to succeed. So yesterday, six parties were here on the Stortinget, an agreement on integration. Then I just have to ask the council how she wants to attack and start the job in view of what happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2746	Thank you for your congratulations. I look forward to working with you further. With regard to yesterday's settlement and settlement, I think there are a lot of good points there that are important for the further integration work. Something can be done quickly, and we're already looking at it. Other things would be natural for us to go through in the integration message to be submitted to spring. So I think one of the important things to review is the introduction system, to see if it works optimally, or if we're going to put it up in another way. I think it's incredibly important for the sustainability of Norwegian society that we try to integrate people faster, make sure they learn Norwegian, get into work and can contribute to the community instead of going on public transfers. I look forward very much to working with Stortinget on this, because it will be very important for the whole welfare model in Norway in the future that we succeed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2755	We also hope that there will be constructive and good cooperation to solve the challenges there. I thank you for your answer. I just want to follow up on asking the minister: how does she feel about going out to the country's municipal government representatives, from all parties, so that the government's call for hard work is well followed out there? How will the new minister show political leadership for settlement and integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2762	It is that the municipalities now have to provide an answer as to how many individual municipalities can live. It's going to be very interesting to see what numbers we get. Then I think that in the further work it is very important to cooperate well with the KS and with the municipalities in general. Of course, I'm going to add up to that. It is also said in this agreement that the total economy must be reviewed, i.e. what costs local authorities have in terms of integration policy. It will be a very important work in the future to work with KS on it. So the integration message, as we present to spring, will be very important. This is a work that I'm of course going to prioritise. If we don't manage to integrate these people, settle them and get them to work, the sustainability of our welfare model will be challenged in the long term. At least I don't want that, and I don't think a whole big deal wants that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2771	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Council of State, Mr Listhaug, on the new role and the desire for happiness, and I look forward to constructive cooperation. It is clear that these are expectations, and I see that the media have already tried to produce her with a clear language and a perhaps ambivalent use of words. I want to say yes, we agree with return, we agree with tightening, and that we should make demands, we agree. But perhaps some of us want to hear that in the same spirit there is talk of good integration, of care for those who have protection needs and of single minor asylum seekers, and that we get a balance in it. So do we know that the Minister of Finance has been against the municipalities accepting housing, so there is enough to balance, but do you want to include in language usage the concepts that I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2778	For me, it is very important that we achieve good integration, and that people who come to Norway with a need for protection and who are going to be here should be treated well is, of course, a prerequisite for success in integration. I'm now going to be thoroughly involved in many aspects of this field, to which of course I'm going to come back and front in a way that hopefully the representative Tuskedal will think is good. This language use issue is quite important – if our goal is to bring down the number of asylum seekers who do not have a basis for being here in the future – that we are a little clear, because this field is very sensitive to what signals we send out. We know that from different parts of the world it is being followed closely by what signals are coming from different countries. Being clear, I think it's important, if our goal is to bring the arrivals down, and I see that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy wants, but I'm not going to forget the other side, namely integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2785	First, I must congratulate the Council of State on new tasks in government. She has been given detailed work instructions with these 18 points of the refugee agreement and yesterday the new 64 points of the integration agreement. The main message from yesterday's points is that we need to move quickly and integrate. It was also clear that the tasks undertaken by the municipalities as a host municipality for both the reception and residence of refugees must be fully financed by the State: ‘It is an overall objective for the parties that is behind this agreement that the pressure we are experiencing today in the reception structure should not be allowed to reproduce and become a crisis for the local government sector. This presupposes compensation for local authorities’ expenses. Then my question is, how does the Council of State intend to follow up this point in the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2797	With regard to the underlying agreement, I am really happy to continue working with it, but also to look at the need for other constraints or points that might be good for integration, and then we're going to come back with an integration message. Now we're going to review the municipal economy. It's one of the points of the agreement that there's a broad deal at the back. I look forward to that. That's also how you now at the tamp of the year have distributed 150 million. NOK to municipalities that have had large costs associated with the situation we have been in. Among other things, the county officials have done a very good job recording which municipalities this is. To take Eastfold as an example, they've got $15 million. kr of that pot, and then it is clear that the council, which is a municipality that has had a strong pressure due to the arrival centre there, is the municipality that has received the most. However, this is also an important work from an integration perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2804	I also wish the Council of State happiness in an important job. Asylum and refugee policy is very serious, because it is about life and death, and that is why we have, among other things. international law. It gives us some principles that we've promised to follow. There has also been a settlement here in Stortinget, where SV has agreed very much. We've disagreed about tightening up and having poor integration policies, we're not for that, but all the other points are for us. The majority have said to stick to international law. Under international law, we are required to provide asylum seekers with asylum applications if they are entitled to protection. The changes that have now been made say that very many legal experts and large-scale organisations in this area are a violation of international law because asylum seekers are not given the opportunity to process their application. Will the Council of State look at this with fresh eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2812	Applicants for asylum are dealt with within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights and the laws. No one has been returned in violation of the EMK. It also establishes the law. Then it is that if you are returned to Russia, it is because you have legal residence there and that it is a safe country. If there are indications of persecution in Russia, the asylum seeker will be treated in the usual way. I am concerned that we should follow the rules and the rules of the game that are, and I feel that we are doing well by the authorities, as I know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2817	I will also be allowed to congratulate the Council of State on new tasks. It will be exciting to work together in an important field. I am very pleased that the Council of State in its contribution is so clear to praise the big deal for the broad consensus that has been given to you both in refugee policy and in integration policy. It was in stark contrast to the representative Keshvari said, where I almost got the impression that he might have passed the house that one has got this broad agreement in terms of both the refugee situation and integration. The question to the Council of State is – she's going to use Christmas to read up on the subject, so I'm not going to ask her to come up with incentives on what to do for housing and integration, which is the most important thing: can the Council of State as a new minister, from the Progress Party, knock down once and for all from the Progress Party that if we are to manage the settlement and integration at all, the municipalities must settle, and the municipalities must give the refugees a roof over their heads?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2826	I am incredibly happy that there is a broad settlement behind the policy that the government is now going to put into practice. It's absolutely necessary that we have it. It's also very important for the signals coming out now, if we're going to have a hope of getting the number coming down to Norway. Living is important, and I was in there many times in a lot of interviews yesterday. I spent a lot of time establishing that if we're going to get people to work quickly, if we're going to make sure they learn Norwegian, and that they start delivering to society, we depend on them to live, and that they get the training they need. But it's also how I think it's good that it's reconciled, among other things. look at the requirements that must be imposed, for the State or public Norway, can never carry anyone through this system. You have to integrate yourself, you have to do your own thing, and therefore it is necessary to look at the requirements and the consequences of not doing what is necessary. So there are many good things we're going to follow up on and make sure to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2833	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2838	It seemed that the committee had been very bad at a minority in the committee who did not express what was really meant. By Christmas you should try to be nice – there are people who sometimes ask if there are any nice ones here. Then I have to say that the Workers' Party, which made this point of view known, is probably pointing back to itself, because it was basically not about being kind or about lack of roughness or anything, it was about the Storting's Rules of Procedure. So the committee had given up. We sent it to the Justice and Foreign Affairs Committee and got it back. Then a minority in the committee discovered that they had come to be a little too rusty with some small words that rustled the government unnecessarily. This is not called lack of roughness, it is called to follow protocol and to follow the Rules of Procedure. This is not the first time it happened, it happened in the time of the previous government, and the Rules of Procedure are quite clear on this point. So it's not about lack of roughness, but it's about following what's underpinned by the Rules of Procedure. You don't change text when you get back something you've had on presentation. It would have been to change the basis on which those who got this presented should look at it. The majority of the Committee believes that the government has managed the refugee crisis quickly and efficiently, because, after the arrival figures began to rise as early as June, the government promoted an additional proposal with increased appropriations already on 18 September 2015. While some still called for conversation and dialogue, the measures were present. Since then, an additional state budget number for 2016 has been promoted to take account of the many increased arrivals, as well as a refugee settlement in the United Kingdom on restrictions on asylum policy and changes in the Foreign Affairs Act to ensure faster returns and more effective enforcement of the situation. In addition, all the measures that have been absolutely necessary and that the government has done on an ongoing basis, such as new arrival centres, social media campaigns, temporary border controls and temporary changes to the Planning and Building Act, are just in order to speed up the creation of new receptions. And – it works. Now I'm going to talk about a special relationship, and that's what goes on in our neighboring country, because we're also under the strong influence of what's happening there. It is important for the government to follow closely the way our neighbouring countries always deal with their national asylum policies. We have also noticed that further mitigation measures have been put in place precisely on border controls – ferries to and from Norway and the European continent – and that border controls will include other border crossing points where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2849	I would commend the proposers for proposing increased capacity in Storskog, a need that was alarming at the time of the proposal. Although it may be difficult to look into the future, and it could be difficult to predict the big current that would come that way, one should do some things earlier. Already when Storskog became a route for refugees, Russian authorities should be contacted to see how to resolve the situation together. I am pleased that contact was finally established, but it is strange that it would take so long to contact our neighbor. It is clear that several people have gone on a road — perhaps with debts in their luggage — without meeting the criteria for protection in Norway. This group could be reached at an earlier stage — through information work — than one was able to do at a later stage. The fact that the government spent a long time doing something, meant that Sør-Varanger was put on a test, but it was a sample that the municipality had with shine. South Varanger has handled the situation both professionally and positively. I myself have visited both the reception in the Mountain Hall and the reception in Neiden and seen how they work to give people as much welcome and treatment as possible. That being said, neither I nor SV are safe from the situation now. The fact that people have to turn to the border without staying in Russia is not to take people's protection needs seriously. It is highly problematic to reject people without having to try their case, which heavy players and organisations in the field have also promoted criticism. We also know that Russia has been criticised because it has not always changed its practice in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. For Norway, the situation in the autumn has shown that there is a need for civil upgrading in the north, and we have also seen the urgency of setting up a new border station at Storskog. It is a cooperation that we in SV would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2864	These are important proposals, and this is an important debate. Many of the proposals have been followed since they were promoted at the beginning of November, and that is good, not least the good dialogue that has been with Russia. It was Keshvar from the Progress Party that made me have to make a little post. I've never gone in to close the boundaries, but I've always been a follower of controlling the boundaries. Why? Well, not least after that visit I had on Lésvos on 19 September – that's almost three months ago – where I saw what was happening at sea. This island got almost 5,000 refugees every day, and two large ferries transported them from the port town to Athens, without special control. When someone asked those who boarded, they said, "We're going to Germany, Sweden or Norway. One did not have to be a rocket scientist to understand that some time later these would come to Norway. That was the background for the reasonably precise statements that I gave at the time. Without border control, the fact would be that many would come to Norway. The fact that the government acted and said that it was acting quickly and efficiently can put a big question mark on it, for the development of Lésvos had been going on for a while, and the Norwegian authorities were aware of it. As a result, there was a debate on border control in the EEA area, and there was a special discussion about our specific responsibility for the Schengen external border with Russia at Storskog. What has gradually become very interesting is whether the Norwegian authorities clearly informed the Russian border authorities about it. It has emerged through the media that already in the autumn of 2012 the situation was that the letter issued by the Norwegian authorities at the border did not clearly state that the Norwegian authorities required a Schengen visa or a border resident’s certificate for entry into Norwegian territory. Thus, Russian authorities did not have jurisdiction in their own legislation to conduct internal border management on behalf of Norway. On 7 November, the Norwegian authorities amended the text of the letter but did not change it to what was recommended by the Russian authorities. On 24 November, however, the text as recommended by the Russian authorities was amended and it has produced results. It's central to having border control. It shows the situation of the day. If we're going to handle it in a good way, we're going to have to do it. It will be interesting to see whether the Progress Party is still in favour of a frontier-free Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2877	It's starting to get a little boring sometimes to listen to the representative Keshvari when he up here time after time slumps together facts and claims in a pipe that fits him himself at the moment he's in. It's getting boring. I hope the representative Keshvari can find new lyrics through the Christmas weekend. That is the case, whether you like it or not in the Progress Party: they now have the Minister of Finance, who can be involved and contribute to a solution. They have the Minister of Justice who can be involved and contribute to the solution. They also have the Immigration and Integration Councils, which should be involved and contribute to the solution. It would have been a lot more constructive if Keshvari had used a little bit of the glow he's showing up here, to talk about the important things that we know we're going to solve together: housing and integration. Do I hear him speak with joy about it, with insight about it, with the purpose of contributing constructively? No, I don't hear that. I hear the opposite, and it's getting a little boring. I hope he can think about it when Christmas comes. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Schou, that perhaps one can hide behind strict rules of procedure, but I still claim that in that committee meeting it would be possible to make those amendments. I would like to make it clear that the Labour Party is going to vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the representative of Mr Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2888	The President is a little uncertain as to whether ‘sleaming together’ is a parliamentary expression. You'll get groundwork on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2891	I want to use the day to brag a little bit. I want to decorate the municipality of South Varanger and the amazing job they have done. I want to decorate all the floors that have some degree of preparedness in them, for the job they have done. I want to brag by the police. I want to brag by the police chief in today's Finnmark police district. I want to boast of my own government, which has actually solved the whole issue of Storskog before the matter has come to Stortinget. I don't know if it's a daily event. But it is such that the whole case complex is solved before it is treated by Stortinget. It says respect. It shows a government that has taken this challenge seriously, and it is also a government that takes the municipality of South Varanger seriously, because what is said in relation to the municipal and administrative committee is that the municipality of South Varanger should be prioritised both in 2015 and in 2016 in terms of the State's beauties. It has received the municipality with great thanks – I think they greatly appreciated the recognition that the Stortinget and the government have given them in this way. For the municipality of South Varanger this shows that it is a municipality that is proud of a people-to-people cooperation, a people-to-people cooperation that has come from below and that has existed there all along, even during the cold war. But I can also be a little surprised when I hear the speeches from some representatives who believe that asylum seekers who come over Storskog have cycled all the way to get over. That's not how reality is. Regular services from Moscow to Murmansk are organised. There you are picked up by buses and drove on. That's how you get out of here. Two miles before the limit, and then you cycle the last 20 kilometers. That's what's the world of reality. As for the number that was in Russia that wanted to go to Norway, maybe we're not talking about the hundreds of thousands that Lundtigen wanted, we're talking about maybe half a million that would over. That's the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2904	I would like to thank Mr Lundtigen for his reply. But it doesn't change the reality of what has been said and what has been said. Let me refer you from a review at NRK.no from November 4, 2015: ‘The flow of refugees and migrants sets new records on a daily basis. Tuesday, 196 people came to Storskog to ask for protection in Norway. The answer from Per Olaf Lundtigen's representative is to close the border far on the way. [[Sp]] No one shall enter unless they have a visa.’ It's the kind of look-up that is directly contradictory to the things Lundtigen has said earlier, and I think it was good to get an explanation in it. With regard to the representative from the Workers' Party, I understand that it is boring to have repeated facts about how the Workers' Party has been doing in this Chamber and in the media during the year we have left behind. I'm never going to stop pointing out the facts and taking up the realities, the realities that go on that Workers' Party says one thing one day, says something else the other day, and then voting for something completely different a few weeks later. That has been the reality. We've talked to glow about a lot. I would like to remind the representative of the speeches we have had in connection with both the budget debate and the chronology debate and other things, where I have also addressed positive aspects. But in this case, the Workers' Party has wavered from a position to a position that is completely contradictory. Then I think it is sad that the representative Eirin Sund has not found out that I am also positive. I'd like to fix it right away. I would also like to pay tribute to the Labour Party and to all other parties who, in the field of subject matter, vote in favour of progress proposals. I think that's very positive, I think that's very constructive. I think it is gratifying that the Workers' Party has been involved in adopting 13 of the 15 tightening proposals submitted by the Progress Party. I think it is very positive that the Workers' Party has at last begun to vote for an integration agreement, where we have picked things up directly from our sustainability committee, which in its time received a lot of criticism from the Workers' Party and others. So also I think it is positive that the Workers' Party is voting for progress party policy and is providing for tightening up in this room, after they came out quite crooked at the beginning of the first six months of this year, and have laid down on a completely different line, where they have had a national meeting that went away from having a strict but fair immigration policy, where they have gone from criticising the government to transporting too quickly, especially people to internal refugees and other things. I just want to sign it out: I'm of exactly the same opinion as anyone else who is positive to the agreements. That's very good. I hope the Labour Party will continue to vote in favour of good progress party policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2923	The Swedish government had to look into the possibility of this situation and also take European initiatives last year. It didn't matter to the government. The representative, Schou, is running all the time talking about someone having to engage in dialogue. SV and Left asked for a meeting in Stortinget after the Red Cross had put down a crisis loss because there were many, and the government provided a budget in October that in no way responded to what was already there. The management of this difficult situation by the government has not been particularly attractive. One has done some practical handling – and it was supposed to be missing, that's what we have governments for. It can't be that the Storting has to go in and say that now you have to move some people from the UDI and here, and then the police have to go there, and then you have to set up a reception because there are many coming. It's the government's responsibility to do that, and you have estimates to deal with it. It was just supposed to be missing, but you did it too late. Then I have to say that I am also very concerned about the free interpretation of international law that is being made by this assembly now. This is not about the settlements that can be made between the lots. International law is a rule of law that cannot be interpreted away in a settlement here. Legal experts and the large, heavy human rights organisations in this area say that what you are doing is breaking international law. This is serious, because it does not guarantee the most important thing in the entire right of asylum, namely the right to apply for asylum. Applicants in Norway do not necessarily stay in Russia. It's wrong when someone stands here and says this only applies to those who live in Russia. There's no problem for those who have it, but there are many who don't have it. And there are very many people who are not allowed to seek asylum in Russia, and when they are allowed to seek asylum in Russia, it is not certain that there is exactly a good process, because Russia is still being convicted in the Human Rights Court. So that's this little valve. The problem here is that the Stortinget rightly says that international law should not be broken, and the government says that international law should not be broken, but the practice that one has instructed the foreign authorities to use is stricter than that adopted by the Storinget, and it also seems that the practice is even more stringent than that. My recommendation to the Council of State is that this should be taken seriously. The point is not what the Council of State thinks about international law, or what I think about international law. That's how international law actually is, and that the actual use of these provisions does not break what we have promised, and that is there to protect people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2938	I cannot fail to comment on Keshvar's articles. It was a very special post, I have to say, especially in the light of the fact that yesterday a broad agreement was reached here on the Stortinget, where the Central Party and the Advance Party, together with many others, agreed on 64 important points in terms of the integration work – and not least in the light of the fact that, a little while ago, we agreed on a settlement with regard to the refugee work, where the Centre Party and the Progress Party agreed on the policy ahead, together with a broad majority on the Stortinget. The article could almost indicate that this has passed the representative Keshvari house. The center part angles, says Keshvari. I've been in charge of this policy area for almost five years, and I think Keshvari is going to look for a long time and with a magnifying glass to find conflicting opinions from me in this field. I also think one should look long before one finds conflicting statements from me and the party leadership in this field. The Central Party has programmed a consistent asylum policy ensuring legal certainty and human rights. ‘The Central Party will continue the main lines of the new Foreign Affairs Act, which entered into force in 2010,’ says our programme. The centre party has been clear that we have been impatient that the government would take action when it comes to border control. We met the government’s request for additional appropriations in the autumn – yes, we added even. The Central Party took the initiative in a broad settlement, both because we saw that it was urgent, and because we saw that there was a lack of government initiative, but not least because we believe that policy is both better and more predictable when there is a broad disintegration of this in the Great Britain. Most remarkable is perhaps that the representative Keshvari comes from a party where one can see clear traces of disagreement, both between the Progress Party in the Stortinget and the Advance Party in government and between the individual government councils. State Council Horne called for more settlement, in line with the Prime Minister's requests. Minister of Finance Jensen has called for the policy of the government to be boycotted. One should be happy to find major policy changes from in spring to the agreement that the Progress Party had with us. And it's not going to be much of a look until you find single representatives who have completely different opinions than the basis for the deal. But I think that's what we're about to do. We in the Center Party are in for the deal we've been on, and I hope the Advance Party does too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2951	Not so many people spoke about the borders of Storskog on November 4. It wasn't that easy to be clear at that time, but I chose to be so. In the NRK interview to which the representative Keshvari refers, the headline was that I went ‘far on the road’ to close the border. It is correct – ‘long road’. But it wasn't to close the border, it was 'long way' to close the border – that was the point. That is precisely what has now become the situation, because we have received a border control, in cooperation with the Russian authorities, which implies the reality that very few now disagree on. The fact that there was going to be a pressure on the Schengen external border in Storskog, Russia, was very clear, but perhaps not aware of the extent to which the pressure would be exerted. But that there was going to be a pressure there, too, was natural, because despair is so enormous in those people who flee. I saw it by sight when I saw those boats, saw the life jackets, saw the baths lying on the beach in Lésvos, from those who had gone over the sound of the rubber boats. It's not unnatural that one then tries all the possibilities that are, and one of the possibilities was in Storskog. But what's interesting is that it wasn't until Norway changed the text on November 24 so that the Russian authorities got what they had recommended, that the big change happened. There was also some of the core part of the interview in early November. This story has to come up to people to show that the Progress Party in the government has not done its job – to be right back. The representative Keshvari will have to take over soon. We need to maintain our good relationship with Russia, but it is essential that we are despicable on our side, in our contact and in our communication, and do not put more responsibility on the Russian authorities than what is right. Now we have a situation, a cooperation and interaction with Russian authorities that show good results. Everyone should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2964	I do not know if it is entirely parliamentary, but I sat and thought when I heard the representative Keshvari that a lot of "loose" should be heard before the ears fall off – and that was right before my fall off! Is it parliamentary?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2969	Yes, it is parliamentary. It is an established term in Norwegian vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2972	Yes, it was just before my ears fell off, for this is quite special. Week after week – all parties but at the end of the week six parties – have been sitting and negotiating the refugee and asylum situation and integration. All the parties who sat in that room, with the parliamentary leaders, have presented their proposals and documents on the table. For our part, in the Workers' Party, we recognize ourselves in many of the points contained in the integration document and in the asylum document, even directly from our integration document, which was adopted at our national meeting. I'm sure the representative Tuskedal from the Christian People's Party can come up here and tell the exact same thing. Then it's very special that the representative Keshvari is trying to create the impression that these documents, which 161 people in this room are behind, are more or less a product from the Progress Party. So this is a process that has gone over weeks where you've given and where you've taken. I have to say that I think that the representative Keshvari can be allowed to have this understanding, live in this error, as long as at least the Council of State of the same party was so clear that she both praised the process and the will and the ability to bring about a broad compromise. I almost don't know what more to say. I think I've said it clearly now. I didn't think I would say anything more, but I don't think either the agreement we made last month, or the agreement that was signed yesterday, deserves the understanding that Keshvari's representative has of the content of the agreement. In fact, I believe that it is quite disrespectful for all the other parties to this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2979	It was Keshvari's post that made me want a little round. I think he could save himself to collect today's situation from the Progress Party account. The government came up with 15 points, and then it was 18 points, but then I can say again: yes, but the 18 points of the Progress Party have been between 60 and 70 points, because the Advance Party has had to agree with a lot of other things that they had not otherwise promoted. So you're going to flag when you need it, and in a way that's in style. A broad agreement has been reached, and it is not the programme of the Progress Party that has made the change, it is the situation in Europe. There's got to be limits to presumptuousness. The size of the population dose the medicine as needed – not according to the programme of the Advance Party. What is now adopted shall be evaluated, evaluated and reviewed in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2986	The representative, Fredriksen, said something like that in his post that he responds to the fact that it is made as if people are cycling all the way to or from the border and the place you are going to or from, and further claimed in his post that there is organized transport standing waiting for them like bicycles. But that's actually something we don't know. We do not know if there is any hot car waiting, or if there is a hot vehicle coming to pick them up like bicycles across the border. We have to deal with what we know, and what we know is that people are being rejected in Storskog. We know that it's on bicycles you cross the border between Norway and Russia, if you don't drive, and we know that there are children being sent away – we know that. And then we know something else. We know that the winter in the north can be so incredibly biting cold – that's also something we know. That it's about to lay over the landscape, and that the cold creeps in, is also something we know. Human rights and the Refugee Convention are established in order to provide for some driving rules, in order to provide for some arrangements to protect those who are most vulnerable, and people who are actually on the run and who have the right and the right to protection. Then the big question is not how far a child must ride, but what happens to the child when it appears away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2995	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e2998	It's amazing how sore a person can get by hearing reality. It's quite right, as the representative of the Christian People's Party says, we made 15 proposals, and 13 of these were adopted. The title of the first agreement is restraints, not liberalisations, as the Christian People's Party has felt over all years. When we are tightened up by point-by-point, in line with the adoption of the Advance Party, the representative of the Christian People's Party says that this is not from the programme of the Progress Party – it is the reality that has forced this forward. That reality forces forward party politics, just shows how right we are. The representative of the Workers' Party is indignant at the fact that the Storting has been involved in many of the hardships that we could not achieve until this crisis was a reality. Once again, it shows that the Progress Party is the premiscible supplier and the innovator in this field. It is when the crisis is first a reality that the others realize this and vote in favour of our austerity proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3005	It would be almost unnecessary to take the floor, but it becomes more and more necessary as the representative Keshvari continues his argument, and I refer to what has been said by several of the other representatives in terms of the agreement itself. But what's the key to Keshvari's argument is what happened in connection with the National Labour Party meeting and the establishment of the agreement that all parties, except the Advance Party, were involved in here, and that helps to form a basis for Keshvari's argument. I sat for a long time thinking that I might not have to take this with the new minister, but I must, quite simply, because he is not giving up, and then we have to ask the new minister: is she behind the understanding that the agreement that all the other parties, including the Right, who are their government partners, entered, was the basis for the situation that otherwise arose? That's the key in Keshvar's argument. It is important now for Stortinget to know whether the new Council of State is behind that understanding, because it will help to preside over the further debate with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3013	I also take the word because of Keshvar's posts, where it almost sounded like he was happy that there was a crisis. But I'm not going to comment on that post, this is more for the government. I think it's important that we now have a broad consensus in Stortinget. Then it's up to the government to pursue a policy that reflects the broad consensus and the balance points that lie within them, now more, the agreements, both the tightening-up and what goes on border control, and also what goes on integration – and that the government is pursuing a policy where all parties are familiar. You have an agreement on a tightening up, but it's also absolutely essential that you have that balance that those in need of protection also get protection. If you can't do it, you're undermining the entire content of the deal, and instead of having a total increase that can actually show the magnitude that we're dealing with a difficult situation and over time being able to get control, but also running a policy that stands, we're going to have a situation where there's still a struggle between parties about understanding the content of agreements. I think that is absolutely essential that we avoid. And how strong this agreement is is not determined by what the situation is now, it's determined by what this looks like in a year, in two years, and in the future. It concerns both the situation at the border, whether those in need of protection are actually protected, and whether we are doing the integration work that the country is facing in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3020	The representative, Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3023	It was just a claim made by Keshvari that the Christian People's Party was in favour of liberalisation and liberalisation. I would remind you that we have concluded, more than two years ago, a cooperation agreement, where we have co-ordinated with the Right and the Progress Party – closely together – and we have promoted no other proposals than that. But what we are proud of, and with which I have also heard the Progress Party has been pleased, is the struggle we have waged for long-term children of asylum and one-off solution. We're proud of that. Otherwise, I'll tell Keshvar that I think the inserts may seem divisive. I am pleased that we are now negotiating in a broad agreement with the Progress Party otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3028	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3031	This situation is so serious that it calls for something other than petty squabbling here in the Storting. It calls for a government that can take international initiatives in a serious situation that we must resolve jointly, which is not solved by pushing refugees from country to country and no one will take responsibility. It requires that we interpret the Refugee Convention so as to ensure what we have committed ourselves to: that people are not sent back to the pure death. I want to remind the majority that it is possible to get a majority in these cases together with SV. I am listening to the debate now, and I see that this whole area has been left to the Progress Party. As I have said before, it is not in safe hands, for there are so many powerful forces who want to interpret themselves away from the obligations of international law, and who do not want rapid and good integration, as proposed by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3043	I had hoped I wouldn't have to take the floor, but when I heard the representative Martin Kolberg, I couldn't stop. There is little doubt that the decision and the shout of joy that came from the National Labour Party meeting in our country gave a signal that Norway had open borders. There is no doubt about it – the Workers' Party said in retrospect. And the rhetoric about this goodness that existed in Norway was spread everywhere, not only in the Workers' Party, but also in the rest of the Storting, except for the Advance Party. And the media followed up. Throughout the election campaign, it was the mantra, namely that Norway was a liberal country with open borders, welcoming Syrian refugees. There's no doubt about it. It is probably not only the basis for several Syrian refugees across Europe, but it gave a signal that Norway had more open borders than they had before the Labour Party decision – just as when Merkel was out saying that refugees were welcome to Germany. Then several refugees came to Germany. It's just how it works, you can almost prove it – you can go back to what was said in the media at the time. The entire election campaign was characterized by the fact that the Progress Party was vicious in government, and it was about making the most liberal. But after the election the journalists also changed their reference to the Progress Party, and then the policy of the Advance Party became applicable, as the representative Keshvari said. You can go back and see, there's no point in standing here and arguing about it. That's the facts. So it's about this broad agreement that everyone is now so concerned about. This is a broad agreement on the premises of the Progress Party. It can also be documented, by what we have suggested in Stortinget before. There's no point in discussing it either. We are pleased that the rest of the Stortinget, except SV, are in it. After all, it is only positive, and we are united on the policy of the Progress Party in this field, which we have been on for years. Now we're on it together. I know that it may be bitter, of course, but now we have the experience that in the situation we are facing, the policy of the Progress Party in this field is the only sustainable and effective policy. Then you can interpret the agreement differently – or not. It says black on white what that agreement says. We hope that all the parties will be in favour of it, so that we can make real convergence proposals that will make it sustainable culturally, and that we will have an economically sustainable immigration policy. We have to bet on everyone, and there's no point in standing here and arguing. In the case of the UN Convention on Refugees, to which several, not least the representative Karin Andersen, are concerned, it is black and white that refugees in need of protection should return when this need for protection is no longer present. So you could say that this is unrealistic. Yeah, maybe it's unrealistic to do, but that's what it says -- black on white. Then you could say that if you sit for five years and wait to be integrated, it's a hopeless task to send them back to Syria. Yeah, that's right. Therefore, it is important to get peace and the opportunity to move back to Syria as soon as possible. That is why all the countries of the West – 66 countries – want to get hold of this and get things in order in Syria, so that refugees can return to Syria, to their homeland, where they live, where they grew up, and to the country in which they are happy, the culture in which they belong, and the language in which they speak. It must be the goal for all of us, not that we take the best talents from Syria and put them into Europe and say that they can become engineers and all sorts of things in Europe, in order for us to have the labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3054	We have had this debate on several occasions here in the Chamber. What the representative Tybring-Gjedde now says, shows that there is a great distance in this room between the part of the Advance Party that he represents, and the other big thing. That's not my political problem, it's Right's problem. And the Right sits still and allows them to undermine the agreement that they themselves have entered into, and the policy that is government policy. This is very remarkable in Parliament. So now it's still the case that the Council of State has not asked for the word. I don't know if she's going to do it. But she is then part of the tradition that we have seen in these matters, also from the Council of State, Siv Jensen: sit still, watch the debate, look down or ignore it – do not participate in it. She'll have another chance. And there are two councillors here – there is also a municipal minister here who is responsible for this in a very significant way. He also sits and looks down, largely – even though they clearly hear this debate. Can the representatives of the government now come up to this pulpit and end this debate and say that the understanding that part of the party group here represents in the Chamber is not valid for the government? Then it's over. If not, it won't end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3061	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3064	It is the content of the agreements that is crucial, and we have many agreements. On the left hand side, we are also behind the agreement we made in ours, which is about quota refugees. In a comprehensive Middle East policy, it is also important to provide for quota refugees, precisely to remove the pressure on refugees crossing Europe's borders. But the crucial thing is that the government looks at these agreements and balances the policy against all the partners. If you don't, you're going to have a situation where you get a breaking policy and a breaking situation in the Storting, in a situation where you need a government that leads on the basis of a broad majority that we have. And it's not the individual discussions here that are crucial. What is absolutely crucial is the situation in one year, in two years' time, in three years' time – if you appear to be a government that had control, and were able to address a situation and lead the country through a period that has actually been difficult, but without doing so at the expense of people who need necessary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3069	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3084	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3091	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in bringing matters up. The annual report of the Sameting in 2014 was signed in Sametinget in plenary on 5 March 2015. The total framework administered by the Sametinget in 2014 was 427.8 million. kr. In the annual report, the Sametinget is doing well for its political work, the tasks that the Sametinget manages, and various economic and administrative challenges. 2014 was a brand year for the Sametinget. The Sametinge marked its 25th anniversary of the Sametinge in the October 2014 plenary session. The merger also marked the 200th anniversary of Grundlova in 2014. It also deals with international issues. In 2014, this focused on the process towards the UN's World Conference on indigenous peoples, which was organised between 22 and 23. ==References====External links== The Norwegian authorities and their representatives played a central role both in the holding of the conference and in the negotiations on the final document of the conference. The annual report also points out that the procedures for consultations between State authorities and the Sameting are one of the most important frameworks for ensuring that their international rights of participation in matters relating to them are combined. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation shares the view of the Sametinget that the implementation of the consultation procedures has strengthened the interaction and cooperation between State authorities and the Sametinget. In the Sameting Annual Report, it is shown that the government is busy taking care of the Sami language. The Sami languages are important cultural operators and are important for the continuation of Sami values and knowledge between generations. Language is small and vulnerable, especially south and lulesamic. The annual report also shows that, in consultation with the Federation, the government has reduced a selection to look at the laws, measures and arrangements for the Sami languages in Norway. The selection shall provide an interim report on the structure and the responsibilities of the municipalities in relation to the language rules of the Samlova in February 2016. The final report will be submitted in August 2016. Some important negotiations involving Sámi interests have also been highlighted in the Annual Report. The government is continuing negotiations with Sweden and Finland on a common Nordic co-convention. It is through consultations with the Sameting on a mandate for the negotiations. Following the initiative of Norway in 2012, negotiations were launched to establish a new agreement with Finland on fishing in Tanaelva. The aim was to put in place an agreement that could reduce the fish pressure on salmon stocks in the 11th century as of 2015. After the last round of negotiations in November 2014, it became clear that a new agreement could be in place at the earliest opportunity in 2017. The Norwegian and Finnish negotiators now agree on proposals for a new agreement. The Agreement shall be signed as early as possible in 2016 and enter into force before the 2017 fishing season. The contract text will be completed and published early in 2016. Local reform is also a most topical theme in the Sámi regions. In the Annual Report, it is pointed out that Sametinget has been allocated NOK 600 000 to help municipalities in and outside the Sami administrative area of the municipal reform, so that Sami language users do not come out worse as a result of changes in the municipal classification. The combination also contributes to growth and development, including: for primary industries, cultural industries and Sami travel. In 2014, Sametget allocated a total of 34,2 million. kr for various nutritional purposes. The Committee shall include: that the Storting decided in 2014 to authorise the launch of a new reduced pre-project for Saemien Sijte in the State budget of 2105, and that the Ministry of Culture in 2015 has given State Building a mandate to prepare a pre-project for a new, reduced building. The Committee notes also refer to various specific issues from the various parties. I expect the parties to comment on them themselves. A plurality in the Committee, with the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refers to the Party's budgetary agreement, where it is shown that the work on the design of the Saemi Sijte has been started, but not completed. These parties argued that the government is following progress closely and informs the Storting about the progress of the revised national budget for 2016. It's worth noting that the old plans developed by the previous government were costing between 200 and 300 million. kr. It was used over 20 million. for planning without any willingness or ability to implement the plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3112	The annual report of the Sameting provides a good summary of the activities of the Sameting in a variety of areas, and the annual report shows that the Sameting has an important role to play in promoting and developing Sami interests — the Sami community. Among other things, the communication refers to Sami languages and their importance as cultural carriers and to the continuation of Sami knowledge, Sami values and societies. South Sami languages are classified as seriously threatened by UNESCO. There should be a clear signal to try to provide a good framework for, among other things. Southern Sami language. But what do the government and the supporting parties do now? Well, they cut support for Southern Sami languages and put down the Southern Sami school in Hattfjelldal to save $3 million. SEK – 3.3 million. It would cost to maintain the operation. With a government budget of approx. 1 300 B.C.E. So you can't give priority to a threatened language. This is not about lack of money – it is about lack of political will. Of course, you could have found this money for the operation if you had wanted it. The fact that the Progress Party thinks this is entirely right is no surprise. The progressing party has stated that they have as their primary objective to bring down the whole Sameting. They have not yet received a majority for that, but they get a majority to cut training in southern Sami languages – cut Sameskolan in Hattfjelldal. What is surprising is that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are involved in this cut. Here, these parties had a number of opportunities to put this money in place for the southern Sami school – they didn't. It's strange and a little bit difficult to understand that these parties can kind of go after their hair in one of these things, and participate in this cut. Yesterday there was a demonstration in front of the Storting, and the youth from the southern Sami school in Hattfjelldal spoke well for themselves, and they had good arguments. It is a pity that they were not heard by the government parties, by the Christian People's Party and by the Left. Another important area identified by the Sameting is the consultation agreement. They say in the Annual Report: ‘However, it is important that the consultation agreement is respected by both parties and that the parties have a common understanding of how the consultation agreement is to be carried out in practice.’;» The merger chooses to enter this because they sincerely believe that the government does not follow the intention of the agreement. The conspiracy thinks they are not being properly heard in important matters for the Sami population. That's not good. The consultation agreement was and is meant to be an important tool, but it requires the government to follow the rules of the game that were agreed upon, and not only when it suits the government. Common policies are clearly decentralized by the majority, and again – they are about political will. It is not the political will of the majority in the United Kingdom to raise the Sameton and the Sami interests – we see that in the budgets. The Labour Party has other proposals in its alternative budget, where there is more funding for Sami purposes. I record that the representatives of the Sameting were literally pushed into the cold. Yesterday, representatives of the Sameting had to stand outside of Stortinget in approx. seven degrees below sea level and speak their case because they do not enter the government corridors in order to conduct consultations. At least the association representatives have now received a seat in Stortinget – in the lodge. That is a step forward. We can hope that there is a sign that the minister will bring them all the way into the heat, so that they can carry out the consultations they are involved in, and that they believe it is important and proper that they be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3128	For 26 years, the combination has played a central role both in the Sami environment and in the general population. The consolidation shall ensure dynamic processes and legitimacy for the Sami population. It gives self-determination in the conditions under which the Sameting has been mandated. The Annual Report is an important document and a good update for us at Stortinget. The Christian People's Party wants to ensure open processes involving the Sameting at an early stage in matters affecting the Sami population. I therefore appreciate, and look forward to, the meeting point that we in the Committee have and will have with the Sameeting both at hearings and otherwise. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your hospitality and information during committee visits and other visits to the Sameting earlier this year. It is important for the Christian People's Party that together develop their language, culture and social life as a recognised indigenous people in Norway. The basic law § 108 and the law of union are the national legal bases for common policies. Norway has a number of obligations under international law leading the common policy, not least the ILO Convention on Native Peoples and Tribal Peoples and the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. It is a popular body and shall be a dialogue partner on common policy issues towards national authorities. Consultation procedures have been developed to ensure dialogue and decisions taking into account the Sámi view. The Christian People's Party wants this work to develop even better, so that good solutions are sought in areas of conflict of interest. An important question is the adaptation of the number of pure to the grazing basis. Otherwise, land conflicts can be mentioned between reindeer and mining, exploration, power companies and the development of wind farms. There are challenges at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in areas of Sami settlement. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen Sami interests in areas of protection affecting Sami settlement. The legitimacy of Finnmark property in the population must be ensured and public rights to use land should also be safeguarded for the future. Seamen and coastal people must be guaranteed fishing rights and coastal fishermen must be given priority over the sea fishing fleet in coastal areas. As far as sea salmon fishing is concerned, I've become familiar with my own challenges that I'd like to explore a little bit more. It's important to see Sami questions in a Nordic perspective. There are now negotiations between Finland, Norway and Sweden to develop a Nordic co-convention. The merger and the departments reached an agreement on the mandate in the spring of 20l4, and Sweden has currently chaired the negotiations. The Christian People's Party will support common Nordic resources to strengthen the Sami languages. The Christian People's Party believes that the Sameting must also be involved in the processes around other conditions in the northern regions that have been updated. We have noticed that more and more children today grow up with a naturally Sami identity. It was with great joy that I experienced singing and performances in both kindergarten and school during visits to Finnmark. The Sami has become a much more visible part of official Norway. Much suggests that strengthening Sami languages and Sami institutions is important, and that increased knowledge of them is countering discrimination, stereotypes and negative attitudes. The Christian People's Party will develop up-to-date curricula and will try to contribute to the availability of educational material in and in Sami, and that Sami culture will have its rightful place in the cultural school. I otherwise record, and wonder that while climate delegates cheered in Paris over the recently concluded climate agreement, a group of partners together with artist Sofia Jannok had a mark and thought that this “judges whole indigenous cultures to death”. I have gradually gained insight into an exciting Sami culture, but that's not all I understand. I look forward to getting an explanation for that. In the case of the State budget, this year, the Sametinge received an increase that is only price-adjusted. It was a shame we didn't manage to save the Sami school, and I hope that the competences and resources attached to it will be preserved. The Christian People's Party also refers to the budget agreement, which refers to the fact that Saemien Sijte is now in operation, but not completed. We will come back to it in the revised national budget. Otherwise, we are particularly pleased that we got a pass for and have secured 2 million. kr to the Sami newspapers. It is important for language, culture and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3154	The merger is an important player in Norwegian society. Both as guardian of Sami interests and rights and as an actor in the international arena in order to promote the interests of indigenous peoples, the Sameeting is making an important effort. In 2014, which is the subject of the notification, it was celebrated that the Sameting was 25 years old. In the current year, we have established new links by bringing Sametinget's plenary collection here to Stortinget. I would also like to highlight the good contact established between the Sameting and the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The cooperation between Sametinget and Stortinget is a recognition that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. The combination manages large budgets, a total of 428 million. NOK 421.3 million. on the budget of the departments of trade. The Communication reiterates the challenges experienced by the current budgetary system, where the allocations come from several departments. I notice that the Department says that, in cooperation with the Sametinget, it will assess the benefits and disadvantages of bringing together most, or perhaps all, of the appropriations for the Sametinget in one budget chapter. Another area where the Sameting has requested changes is the consultation system between State authorities and the Sameting. I am pleased that the annual report to the Sametinge this year shows that after years of entry and disagreement on the interpretation of the consultation procedures, a satisfactory practice has gradually been established with most departments. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is an exception, it is called the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I assume that the political leadership of this department takes note of the need for improvement and that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, such as the Ministry of Coordination, helps to create better relations. On a number of points, the batches separate the layers of the committee position. One of them is the expansion of Saemien Sijte on Snåsa. The annual report of the Sameting shows that there is a great need for a new building that provides opportunities for the dissemination of Southern Sami culture and history, and that will also be important for the promotion of tourism and employment in the region. New construction has not been given budgetary priority. This year, the Ministry of Culture has commissioned State Building to prepare a pilot project for a reduced project in relation to the plans put in place. The centre party believes this case has taken too much time already, and that there has been too much back and forth with constant delays. In our 2016 alternative budget, we have entered a start-up grant of 10 million. kr. It's time to realize this important project. The Central Party has also committed in its 2016 alternative budget appropriations to maintain the Sameskolan for Middle Norway. A closure, as the government has planned, will have a negative impact on the efforts to preserve southern Sami language and culture. I see that the majority of the Education Committee also agrees with this in its remarks in the budget position. The problem is that the Christian People's Party and the Left agree, but vote against the appropriations. I am particularly surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left are no longer concerned with the care of Southern Sami, which according to UNESCO is categorised as a seriously threatened language. Industrial policy is at the heart of the work of the United Nations. Housing and land use, taking into account Sami culture, nature and environment, forms the basis for viable communities where people want to live, is stated in the Annual Report. Primary industries, especially the reindeer industry, are struggling. One of the challenges is that the effectiveness of preventive measures in predator management has been shown to be of little benefit to the reindeer industry. I know this from my own area. Absence of controls on predatory strains poses a particular threat to the conservation of southern Sami reindeer and culture. The annual report says that the Sameting is dissatisfied with the state's predatory policy. Reference is made to the work of the Ministry of Climate and Environment on extending the wolf zone, where the Sameting is opposed to the proposal to extend the zone. I support this scepticism. I initially referred to the extensive activities of the Sameting and the corresponding large appropriations. The centre party believes it is important to ensure the work of the assembly, and believes it is unfortunate that the appropriations for the assembly are not price- and cost-adjusted. That is why, in the alternative budget of the Centre Party, we have proposed the necessary appropriations to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3182	Last year, 25 years have passed since the formation of the Sameting, marking a time gap between the Norwegian state and the Sami population. Obviously, here's a long period of history that the Norwegian state has very little reason to be proud of. Over the 25 years, the merger has evolved and gained a position not only in Sami and Norwegian, but also internationally among indigenous peoples, who I believe have inspired many. The Sami languages are important cultural carriers and it is important to provide for the continuation of Sami values and knowledge between generations. The languages are small and vulnerable, in particular southern and lulesamic, and it is therefore important to pursue a policy that ensures the future of the Sami languages. We have a special responsibility to use Sami in public spaces — more in use — and to facilitate the use of Sami languages and the use of Sami languages. The left is particularly concerned that we need to strengthen the efforts of Sami textbooks. It's been a problem for a long time, and we now need to get a bigger lift. It is also essential that a daily and weekly press contributes to Norway's responsibility to take care of its own languages, and we are pleased that in the budgetary agreement we received a boost in support of the Sami daily press of 2 million. kr. In what we do about supporting Norwegian films, it is also important to have a good foundation for Sami films. The left considers that the State has the role of ensuring predictability and the possibility for the development of Norwegian-produced and thus Sami films. Then I want to take up the situation about three barley. The fusion is an important precursor to the development of Sami culture. At the same time, national, regional and local authorities also have a responsibility to give Sami culture good development opportunities. Then we have a special responsibility. The first is Sami high school and reindeer school in Kautokeino. It's worn out, it's old, it's a state school, and if there's one thing we have to take responsibility for now, it's making sure that this one gets a completely necessary new building. Of course, we support the comment on this, and also the comment on this in the context of the State budget. As far as Saemien Sijte is concerned, we have also got it into the budgetary agreement, where it is pointed out that the design work is under way. We assume that the government is following progress closely and informs Stortinget of progress in the revised national budget for 2016. It is important to strengthen Sami as a language in cultural life, and then the Sami National Theatre Beaivváš has an important role to play in Norwegian stage art, both as an innovative institution and tour theatre and as a guardian and further developer of Sami language, art and culture. This project also needs support. It is a Sami National Theatre that obviously needs a new building, and it is important to drive those processes forward until it will also be completed. So finally some words about the need for a Norwegian-Finnish agreement on fishing in Tanaelva. It has proved difficult to reach an agreement, and from the left we have stressed that while we are working on that agreement, there is also a need for action. We have been concerned that we need to put in place a wild-ax centre in Tana, to see if it is possible to build up an administration from below to remedy that situation and the disagreement between Norway and Finland, but also to see if it is possible to achieve better cooperation for the management of fisheries in Tana.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3201	SV agrees with Left that it is important to clarify the situation of fishing in Tanaelva. It's a very important fishing resource, which we have to manage and take care of better than we can now. It is a very important body. It shall respect national interests. It's important to note that the Constitution says that we're a country where we have two people and that they're equal. The whole thing has a number of very important problems, we see that when we read the annual report. Nor is there any doubt that it is yet another piece before the great community has enabled the Sameting to fill the role that they have been given. It is about resources to carry out the great and important task they have in order to provide Sami language and culture, nutrition and lifestyle in a large community where these values have been under intense pressure for many, many decades, and where different types of modernisation and centralisation are involved in this pressure. That's why SV in its alternative state budget has chosen to strengthen the Sameting by 30 million. kr in free revenues, which we are absolutely sure that the Sameting is fully capable of managing and applying to the most pressing tasks, to which they also refer in this 2014 Annual Report. One of the areas where it is very important that we get a reinforcement in place is Sami teaching material – that it is that when you go to school you get learning material in your native language. There's a piece left there, and it's expensive to make learning materials into a little language. Then there are several cultural institutions that SV believes need to be strengthened. It has been mentioned Saemien Sijte, Sami daily press, Beaivvá's Sami theater and the Sami school in Hattfjelldal, as there was a demonstration about outside here yesterday, and as SV of course we think we should keep. The consultation mechanism has been mentioned. It's important, and I think the Council of State has to take seriously the signals that the Sameting is giving, that they don't feel they're being taken seriously. When we discussed this last year, I raised a problem that we have addressed in SV, namely that there are many departments that are responsible, and you push it a little between themselves. There are some who in some way have to take responsibility for prioritising the Sami in the final round, because it is in the final round of the budget the Sami loser, because it is not at the top of any single Council of State agenda. It is really the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is responsible for this. This means that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must take this more seriously, so that at least the Sami will follow the development of the other democratic bodies we have in this country. Finally, there is a need for a self-declaration on Southern Sami language, culture and industry. SV intends to promote such a proposal for a representative, and if there are other parties in this room who would like to be involved, SV is happy about it, because it is necessary to put it in place. The southern Sami language, culture and food routes are extremely vulnerable and extremely small, and they are easy to get enough attention in common policy in general. Because these are extremely vulnerable and small environments -- as we've seen with the school in Hattfjelldal and how it goes when you're small and don't have many speakers -- that means that if we can't get a good investigation into what we have to do to succeed in this, we can risk those little pieces that fall away, one by one, really are involved in tearing away the legs under this, because suddenly what's an important part of Norwegian society, the Norwegian cultural heritage and the future, is gone, and we must be sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3216	The government is working to ensure that partners develop their language, culture and social life. The attitude of the Municipal and Administrative Committee shows that there is a broad political consensus to continue this work. The government is dedicated to creating a society with opportunities for everyone. That's why we work specifically for an open and inclusive society where everyone feels belonging. We want a society based on democratic principles, universal human rights and mutual respect between individuals and groups. In a democracy, freedom of expression is inalienable. In Norway, freedom of expression is strong, and we must hold back that fact. However, the comment fields of the newspapers testify to the fact that, like other minority groups, together are exposed to hot and hateful expressions. It is important that all use their freedom of expression to protest. We're concerned about the scope of hateful statements. The government therefore launched a political declaration against hateful expressions in November this year. At the same time, we see the need for active action to prevent hot flushes and harassment and have launched a strategy against hateful expressions. The merger will be a natural interlocutor in the development of this strategy. The government is now working on several major issues that are important for the common policy. This applies, inter alia, to: work on the follow-up to the proposal of the Joint Committee to legislate on the consultation obligation, a Nordic Convention, the Language Committee and any new Financial Arrangement for the Joint Committee. Consultation procedures between State authorities and the Sameting are one of the most important framework conditions for ensuring the international right of co-opted participation in matters relating to them. My main impression is that the consultations between the government and the whole thing are getting better and better. Although the Ministries and the Sameting are not always able to reach agreement, both the Sameting and the Ministries have given feedback that the consultation procedures contribute to an increased understanding of the situation and needs of the Sami community. For me, it is important to stress the importance of having a good dialogue with Sametinget also in cases where there is no consultation obligation. It is good that several departments have set up permanent meeting points with the Sameting. I think it will make a positive contribution to policy development in the same policy field that there are areas where the Sameting and the Departments of Trade can raise different issues more broadly. I am also pleased that the Sametinge participates constructively in the debate on municipal reform. They have an important role to play in pointing out and caring for Sami interests. In dialogue with me, the co-operative president expressed concern about the situation of the administrative municipalities for the Sami language in the context of the municipal reform. In the same way as the joint president, I am also concerned that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of changes in the municipal classification. In the autumn of 2014, the Government reduced a sample to look at the legislation, measures and schemes for the Sami languages in Norway. The Government will assess the legal rules and measures for Sami languages, including those with a management area and procedures for inclusion after the Language Committee has submitted its proposal. The merger will then be invited to consultations on these measures. Let me reiterate to the representative Ola Elvesuen that considerable progress has been made in terms of agreement with Finland related to the Tanavas Treaty. The aim has been to reduce the fish pressure on salmon populations and improve local access to fish. I think it is good that we now have a solid basis for a modern and forward-looking management of the fish stocks in the Tanava stretch, which could be in place from 2017. Finally, let me say to the representative of Lauvås that Sametinget and the representatives of Sametinge have good access to government and ministries. By the last Wednesday, I had a consultation meeting with the representatives of Sameting. They also had consultations with a number of other departments. That they choose to have a mark outside of Stortinget, I take for information, but they have good access to both government and ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3247	There is clearly a wide range of distances between what the representatives of Sameness themselves perceive is good access, and what the Council of State thinks is good access. We're going to have to take note of that. A majority of the Committee points out in its comments that preserving and developing Sami languages is important. Then the message refers to – as we were told – that southern Sami is classified as seriously threatened. How does the Council of State, when he now puts down Sameskolan in Middle Norway, think that it will help to raise southern Sami language and make it less threatened?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3255	That issue has been dealt with in the Storting, and it is a majority in the Storing that have joined the government's proposal. The school has not had students since the spring of 2011. When the school is now laid down, it's quite obvious that the students' rights are exactly the same. There are still a number of other schools providing distance learning in Southern Sami, among others. Primary schools both in Snåsa and Røros. Let me also add that it is not more than two years since the Workers' Party left the government. It is our government that has now made progress in the work of the Joint Court Committee, which came in 2007, it is our government that has continued to work with the Nordic Convention, it is our government that has set up a language selection to strengthen the Sami languages, and it is our government that has put in place a new office building for the Sameting. So I'm responding to the characteristics of the government's common policy. We have an offensive common policy to uphold good Sami rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3262	It is the Council of State itself who stands in line to accumulate the Sameting and Same School. I think he should just admit that it wasn't political will to find the 3.3 million. kr that could save the school in Hattfjelldal. Now I saw some of those students out on the ground here yesterday, because I was out with them listening to them, and I didn't see the council there. As regards the consultation agreement, the annual report from Sametinget states that you are dissatisfied with how it is followed up by the government. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if he notices, if he takes care of it, and if he is trying to do better – so follow up that agreement better, so that you get a consultation agreement that both parties believe works well, and not just one party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3269	Now it's not that it's just the one party that thinks there are good consultations. I have consultation meetings with the meeting president, and the meeting president has confirmed that there is good dialogue with several departments. So we also know that in some areas it doesn't work as well as it should. These include: The reason why we have had our own seminar, where Sametinget has also participated, where we have guided the departments on how the consultations should work well and how they can work even better. That's why our government has now taken up the work of the Joint Court Committee, which came back in 2007, among other things. is about how we can achieve a better consultation system. So this is high on my agenda. It is important for the departments, also because the departments experience good consultations and good dialogues giving better results. It is in our interest that there is good dialogue with the Sametinget. Of course, it can get better, but we feel that in many areas it works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3274	I heard when the Council of State took the floor, that he opened up saying that the government is working to develop Sami language and society. I must be allowed to ask again: Can the Council of State explain how he believes that the closure of the Same School in Hattfjelldal contributes to the development of Sami language and society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3279	As I have already explained, the school has not had regular students since the spring of 2011. The rights of students are respected, and the County of Nordland is responsible for distance learning in Southern Sami areas. As I pointed out, schools both in Snåsa and Røros offer distance learning in southern Sami. In addition, we have put down a sample that now looks at how we can strengthen Sami languages. I look forward to getting that attitude, because I fully agree with the representative that language is an important part of both culture and belonging, and therefore it becomes a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3284	Same school in Central Norway has adapted to the modern world. Sami kids don't move from home and live at boarding school from the age of six. A good combination of language collection in the Southern Sami community of Hattfjelldal and distance learning allows these kids to live at home with their parents, like all the other kids. And unless I saw a vision yesterday, this school has students. It was proud students who were in the lawn here yesterday. One thing is that this comes as a budget cut without it being consulted with the Sameting, but there is also no plan B. So who is going to take care of these kids and the rights they have to be taught in their mother tongue? Is it Røros and Snåsa to take responsibility for these children? There is no strengthening of budgetary resources. One cannot expect these institutions to be able to take over this student mass without being given budgetary strength. Or is it that these kids are going to have to go to boarding school and be away from their parents all week?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3293	As I have already explained in two answers, it is the County of Northern Ireland that is responsible for the South Saami distance learning. It is also true that there are two schools which have the type of distance learning. The rights of students must be respected and the Ministry of Knowledge has indicated that they want further dialogue with the Sameting in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3298	The merger dialogue should be maintained before making any changes like this. I would like to ask the Council of State what I finally addressed in my speech, namely the need to get a separate big message about southern Sami languages, culture and the food chain, because there are so small and vulnerable environments and the challenges there may be a little different from those of Troms, Finnmark and Nordland, but also because there may be other means to secure values that are so vulnerable, and where the environments are so small. It can therefore be considered that both government and bulking have to deal with different types of measures than is otherwise appropriate. Is the Council of State prepared to look at such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3305	Let me say that I agree that there are important issues — both language, culture and the economic pathway in the Southern Sami regions and in other areas. I am more in doubt if your own big message is the answer. We are now working on major, important issues of common policy. The follow-up to the Joint Court Committee is a big task, and that is what I want to give priority to. We're working on language selection, we're working on Nordic co-convention. There are major, important issues that have a high priority in the ministry. Then we can discuss how to contribute to strengthening Sami languages, culture and the food chain in the Southern Sami areas, but I am more in doubt if a big message is the answer to those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3312	Now I understand why the school is laid down, because it actually came out here. You think you have a school where there are no students. The Minister of Knowledge said the same yesterday, but after he got some more information, the Minister of Knowledge actually promised me that he would look at this again. It would have been very nice if the municipal minister had also done the same thing. If it's still the way you think it's a school offer that doesn't have students, I would recommend the council to take a trip to Middle Norway, to Hattfjelldal, and see what the offer is. I was outside here yesterday with these students, and if I didn't hear wrong, there were 49 students who were taught via Hattfjelldal. And it's actually not just lifting them out – it's not capacity. Then, of course, the Minister can only take responsibility for the County of Northern Ireland, but the problem is not solved. One can solve it with the language through distance learning, but one can't solve it with the culture and the piece that's lying there. Will the Minister revisit Sameskolan in Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3317	If it is the case that the representative has raised the question with the Minister of Knowledge, and the Minister of Knowledge has confirmed that he will look further on the question, then the Minister of Knowledge will answer that question. So the representative has to deal with the minister of knowledge about the school in Hattfjelldal. What I've been pointing out, and as the Minister of Knowledge has also pointed out, is that the school hasn't had regular students since 2011. We have also shown that students' rights will be respected. And the Minister of Knowledge has announced that he will have dialogue with the Sameting in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3323	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3328	I would say that an important criterion for democracy is how to deal with its minorities. In Norway, we have one minority. It's the Sami people. The Sami population is clearly protected by the Constitution, which states that Norway is composed of two people. The Sami population thus enjoys the same rights as the ethnic Norwegian population. It appears that there should be no disagreement about it. However, I would like to remind the House of the discussion we had in connection with the constitutional proceedings last time, in which, unfortunately, a majority rejected a strengthening of what might be called the co-paragraph of the Constitution. Now, Sametinget has said about it and has proposed a strengthening of the Constitutional Paragraphs. It will be the Labour Party for its part to propose to Stortinget, so that the next big deal can deal with that matter. Then I will join in what the representative Elvesuen said. He kept the right post. Tskedal did the same. Now, in this debate, we are talking in particular about the Southern Sami school in Hattfjelldal. There is a lot of good in the setting – I agree with that. It is not that these minorities are not cared for. But can't the Storting not make a mistake now? Can't we just get together and not vote down the grant to that school? That's a good thing. When I listen to Elvesuen and Tuskedal, they agree that that school should not be laid down. Now all of us, at least we who are present in this room now, should notice that now the representatives of the Progress Party are sitting in silence. They do not participate in this discussion. Maybe that's because they're a little ashamed? They should really do that, because those who push this kind of thing forward are linked to not giving money to a minority of minorities. I wish that Council of State Sanner could straighten out and say that no, this doesn't work anyway, and not use all of these bureaucratic arguments that he's doing here, which are typical of the kind of argument that you use when you don't have to take into account minority interests, and cover it up. It's something in the bureaucracy that's taught them that sentence. That's not necessary. The size should simply deal with this effectively and say that we cannot make such mistakes as that when we talk neatly about caring for the interests of minorities and their language, which is, of course, the prerequisite for their continued knowledge and functioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3345	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Kolberg, for wanting to bring up a draft constitution, on which SV also supports and supports, in order to strengthen the position of the Sami people in the Constitution. Yesterday there was a powerful selection outside the Stortinget. It was not necessarily powerful in terms of its size — minority markers are rare — but the more powerful it is in its content. The marking was against the government's common policy, triggered by the closure of the Same School in Hattfjelldal. It's not often that representatives of the Sami people seem to have to take the tour to Eidsvoll's place to stand outside the Storting. Yesterday's demands and appeals were worth listening to. The speeches were ready, and I got the feeling that a drop is about to land in a beaker that is getting pretty full. I record that the government has submitted a budget for Norwegian growth and for Sami cut. I record a criticism from Sametinget about an experience of repeated non-compliance with the consultation agreement, and I record that important projects such as Båstede – «back» – and Várjjat Siida are completely silent, completely silent. I am also contacted by different representatives – by sea salmon fishermen, who are important carriers of maritime culture, and who experience that their nutritional basis is threatened, and I am contacted by parents who have to fight hard daily to ensure that their children are given absolutely decisive and fundamental rights, namely language training and knowledge of their culture. As a minority, the Sami people are subjected to a pressure by the majority society. We see it in the use of nature and natural resources, we see it in regulations and that sometimes voices are deafened, we see it in the form that fighting for their own space and for language and culture in a majority society can be challenging. Then it is discouraging that the majority of the population chooses to lay down a southern Sami school. It is a group that is really under great pressure. So it's interesting to hear that the Council of State experiences the situation very differently from representatives of the Sami community. I would like to challenge the Council of State to share some thoughts around it to see if he sees a management of the Tanavas line that takes care of the marine salmon fishermen, whether language and culture are adequately preserved, and whether the Sami voices are actually heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3367	Yesterday, the majority in this Chamber decided to lay down the southern Sami school for Middle Norway in Hattfjelldal. Despite the fact that there is actually a majority in this room that means something else, it was the result, at least if you're going to believe what's being said and written. Unfortunately, the majority were unable to make room for 3.3 million. kr to maintain the southern Sami school in Hattfjelldal. Yesterday there was a powerful demonstration outside here. Several of you saw me there, but less than 100 people supported this case. These are not people who abuse their position of standing and shouting outside of the Storting. I was told afterwards that the last Sami people mobilized outside the Storting was at the Alta action. In addition, we see that they have their own Facebook page called Stop the closure of Sameskolan for Middle Norway! – which soon has 2,100 trailers in a week. For those who were here yesterday, it wasn't just to jump on the tram down here to demonstrate – they have a journey of 100 miles each way. I think that is also the answer to why this did not come about in the budget. It's something that's far away, a minority that we don't have to care so much about. As I said in yesterday's debate, and as I stand for: I think this is petty by the government and by the support parties, which made us not to have a majority. We have a state budget of 1245 billion. And then we can't give priority to this. We are going on a simple proposal from the Progress Party. Now it's not just that they don't take the word -- they're actually out of the hall as well. I am at least happy that I belong to a party that chooses to prioritise both the city and the country, and has this included in its budget. It is true that the language of the Southern Sami school offer is on the UNESCO list of highly threatened languages. It affects not only those students who receive valuable language teaching at this school but, in fact, the entire Southern Sami environment — both in Norway and Sweden. It's argued that there aren't any students there. No, there aren't students there all the time. It's assembly-based, and it's distance learning. The reason why it's collective is because this arrangement doesn't just go into language, it also goes into culture and the pieces you're going to learn. I also see that there was a large majority in the comments here today, it's just a shame that it didn't arrive when the money was to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3380	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take care of Sami culture, also Southern Sami culture and the Southern Sami language. It was surprising to hear the representative Greni say the opposite, that the Christian People's Party is not concerned about this, and that we are not willing to take responsibility for the Southern Sami language. I do not know whether the representative Mr Greni has read the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, but that is where the primary policy of the Christian People's Party is expressed. If she had read that document, she would see that the Christian People's Party does not want to cut the allocation to Same School, but that we want to maintain that school. But the Christian People's Party does not have a majority in this Chamber alone, and we have entered into a budgetary settlement that we put ourselves behind, but also involves a number of things that we would like to see so different. This closure of the Same School is one of those things. Three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, When the government parties and the government are not willing to agree to this in negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party, I don't think it's primarily about economics – I think it's about a government assessment that it's actually a sensible policy to put down the Same School. It is an assessment that the Christian People's Party does not share. I am also pleased to hear both the Minister of State and the Minister of Knowledge stress that the students' rights are established. I was also pleased to hear the Minister of Knowledge stress in yesterday's debate that all those who today have a school offer at Sameskolan in Hattfjelldal should have an equally good education offer in the future. I can promise that the Christian People's Party will follow this matter closely, and that we will be responsible to the Minister of Knowledge for fulfilling these promises. If it turns out that it is not possible to maintain an equally good alternative within the other education services available today, I assume that the Minister of Knowledge and the Government will be willing to review this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3393	I sat thinking that I think I should say something that is rarely said. In a situation like this, almost the President himself should intervene. It's not necessary to do this kind of thing that we're now doing. Now, of course, this is becoming a significant symbol. There may be arguments for, and there may be arguments against the closure of that school, but the school itself and its students say, "Don't do this." Please don't do that. We're a small minority. Don't hurt us this way. The representatives of the assembly are unison. That's why they've met up here. That's why they came. They're sitting and nodding now. And then, as the Norwegian Parliament, we should say: No, this is not important – because a settlement has been reached that we should not grant these 3.3 million. kr to these students within the Norwegian welfare country. We just don't have to do this. I understand the situation of the Christian People's Party and the Left. They're part of a settlement. I know very well what it's all about, and what it represents. But you should not make these kind of mistakes, which actually hit a small and very vulnerable group, when the representatives of your group say, "Please don't do this." Then, in our political arrogance, we're going to say, "No, there's no need to listen, because that right is being protected in some way – as the students themselves say is wrong. That's why I said instead, can't we just go up and say that this is what we're biting in us? I mean that. It's a slim thing for us to do if we want to. It's not because I, the Workers' Party or others need to win a victory in this of a symbolic nature. But if we take part in the purchase that we duplicate the attitudes of the Progress Party in such budget negotiations, I would like to take that into account in the purchase. In the case of these types of symbols, we must not allow an extreme right party to dominate. There will be symbols that underline that they have too much power over Norwegian cultural development. That's what this case is about, and that's why I say that here the President should actually take care of himself, because the President is responsible for the entire National Assembly, and the National Assembly is the one to uphold the rights of the indigenous peoples, and in particular the place they have in the Constitution. I have my role in the capacity I have, and that's why I'm really running on this case. Can we not simply get together now and make sure to vote in favour of that decision, so that we do not hit the poor students who stood here and were frozen yesterday to demonstrate for their perfectly legitimate rights in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3402	The President would point out that it is probably not the President's concern to intervene in the Storting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3405	The representative of Kolberg reiterates his misgivings and untruths that this is due to the fact that the Progress Party is about to have something against Sami language and culture. The Council of State has explained in detail why this decision has been reached, which is supported by the majority here today. If I were the representative of Kolberg, I would have been very careful to talk about the shame of minorities in this country. The representative of Kolberg should have had so much education and knowledge about his own party's history that he kept himself too good to sink to such a level, in a crude populistic attempt to save something for the common people because he has some audience here today. If we study Norway’s history and what kind of abuse minorities are exposed to, it is not the Progress Party that has something to be ashamed of. This decision is due simply to the fact that it is a school that has not had regular students since 2011 and that it is able to cope with the low level of unemployment that the representative Kolberg is doing, accusing the Progress Party of having had a positive impact – in order for us to have something against Sami minorities or other minorities. The Progress Party has been in favour and is in favour of Sami languages, culture, tradition and food routes. We have had another fundamental view of whether it is right to have two parliaments, two national parliaments, in one nation. That's what we've meant before, that's what we mean now, and that's what we're going to mean in the future. This issue is set out in the Government Declaration, and therefore it is not part of the debate here today. The consultation system is established. The organisation of the assembly as it appears and has been so far is also established. But to make those kind of accusations to try to score a cheap point because you're rushing on yourself because you've suddenly got some spectators on the bench here, it's so low that I didn't expect anything like this from the representative Kolberg. Once again, I encourage the representative to read Norway's history and read his own party's history before he starts talking about shame when it comes to treating minorities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3414	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. The President would point out that one should be careful with the characteristics of co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3419	I agree. I've got the elementary school from Egge School in Lier. As Keshvari referred to my education, I can tell you about it. That's the education I have. But there I learned one thing: I learned the difference between right and wrong. That is the fundamental thing for a politician. So I hear what Keshvar says, and I don't know exactly what it means, but it really means that he's basically for, because a lot of things are solved. Then I don't understand why we're in this situation at all. It is true that the Council of State said to me in the place, that this is not a concrete proposal today. It was handled in the budget. I understand that, but it is a setting that is related to the Sametinget, and that it is possible to handle in a proper and concrete way – if we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3427	The case of the school in Hattfjelldal is serious. It's because you remove this school and this training offer before you have done the investigations that the government says you have to do to ensure this. That means you're standing without an offer that might prove to be, in those investigations, a necessary and correct tool. So you do things the exact opposite order. It's a hope that the Minister of Knowledge has told him to look at this, but then you have the time until summer, because you probably don't put down a school in the middle of a school year. That means that the revision is an important crossroads, and that the government has to look at this in its entirety. Here, I think, we are hit by exactly what I said in my speech, namely that there are different government councils responsible for different sections of the common policy, that no one takes the overall responsibility and sees what the result is in the end – that not one small piece you remove here, and the other one you remove there, in different budgetary settlements, finally ends up with a result that rips the legs off under important institutions that are to preserve small languages and give young people with a background, the possibility of an equivalent school offer on their own premises and in their own language. That's what this case is about. I have no hope that a party like the Advance Party, which will put down the Sameting, which has been against the establishment of it, and which will not acknowledge that it is an indigenous people, understands this. But I had expected that a minister from the Right, an experienced minister like Sanner, had seen this and had said, like the Minister of Knowledge, that we need to look at this again. The right has a completely different story to that of the Progress Party, and through it has a completely different obligation to follow this up, even in practice. Budgetary processes and the outreach of important Sami institutions between the different departments cannot be used to risk something as important as, for example: the school in Hattfjelldal disappears before investigations have been carried out on the basis of the provision of lessons to be given afterwards. I hope during the spring you can find a solution to this, because we have to. This is a school that we can't lay down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3438	I drew myself because it was about to spread a misconception that we were going to vote today over a grant to the school in Hattfjelldal. We won't. It was dealt with in Stortinget under the budget of the Ministry of Knowledge. However, there are important issues that arise. That is why the government has set up a language selection to look at the current arrangements, measures and legislation for all the Sami languages. This is also a clear point in the government statement that we want to strengthen the Sami languages, because Sami languages are an important part of culture and belonging. It is perfectly possible to agree or disagree on whether or not to still grant a few million kroner to the school in Hattfjelldal. But it is not that the students will be left unsolicited, because the students are entitled to an offer, and the students' rights will be respected. I also record that Karin Andersen points out that no one has overall responsibility for common policies. Yeah, I got it. I have overall coordination responsibility for Sami issues. In addition, each department has a sectoral responsibility. Now we're in a discussion with the Sameting about whether we're going to collect several of the appropriations in one post, or whether that's how it's going to be today: in the different departments. I see both the advantages and the disadvantages of collecting, so we have not taken a decision on whether to do so. It may be an advantage because one has the opportunity to see the appropriations together, but it may also be a disadvantage because one weakens sectoral responsibility. It is also an advantage that a State Council responsible for knowledge policy is also responsible for Sami language and education. So it's a balance with different arguments. We're going into that discussion, and we're going to consult and have a good dialogue with the Sameting on those questions. Finally, I think it's great that we can have a good debate on these questions. But I think it should also be stressed that what this setting shows above all is that there has never been such a broad consensus on part of the basic assumptions of the Sami policy, as it is today. It is also clear from the recommendation that the government has now addressed many of the major, heavy and important issues: the Joint Court Committee, the Nordic Convention, language selection – important questions where we have, and will continue to have, good dialogue with the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3457	I am aware that the question of funding is clarified – unfortunately – in connection with that trade budget. But I still think that there is reason for the co-ordinating co-minister to take the signals that come from – I would say – a very broad magnification, and the real commitment it is concretely in relation to the school in Hattfjelldal, which some of us also voted in favour of, but was voted down. But for the whole responsibility we have for the Sami languages: the northern Sami language is used quite a lot, the scholesamic and lulesamic less, and I am well aware that there are no active users of pitesamic again in Norway – sorry, two; then I bombed there a little. And so we have southern Sami, which is a very threatened language. There are actually quite a difference in those languages, and we will be incredibly poor as a nation if we, this generation of politicians, do not ensure that the diversity of languages we have within the borders of Norway is preserved. That's why we think the school in Hattfjelldal is important, but there are also other measures that are important. So it's true, as both Karin Andersen and the Council of State say, that sometimes it can be challenging to get a whole common policy that includes culture, language, industry, etc., because it's in several departments. I myself have had the pleasure of being the Council of State responsible for this area. It was then in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. I had the pleasure of being allowed to get more departments to help raise the status of the University of Kautokeino, so that it was given a special responsibility to care for the Sami languages. And I want as much as I can, to encourage the Council of State to take the signals from the Storting and, when we come back to the revised budget, hopefully mountain school in Hattfjelldal before it's too late. It's nice to have a sample that's going to go through how we're going to take care of the Sami languages. That's good. But it may not be a good idea to start the work of putting down one of the schools that takes care of one of the Sami languages that is very marginal in terms of the number of users that is worth caring for. We should jointly take that responsibility, and I hope the Council of State will come back in the revised budget with a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3468	We had this debate in the church, education and research committee yesterday, and I'm glad that it's now coming up in a wider range, because there wasn't much room for exactly this with the same school in Hattfjelldal. But I take the word as a response to Keshvar's violent commitment, passion and almost hairyness that someone could find out about the attitude of the Progress Party in terms of common politics. It is such that, up to this great period, the Progress Party would end all support for all Sami languages when it comes to education. They believe that it is discriminatory to give money to Sami children and to Sami educational materials, and they want to end that kind of special treatment. Therefore, they consider that ‘appropriations relating to primary and secondary education which are channelled through the Sameting will cease over a period of three months’. Now I read from the setting to the budget that was in force for 2013. This note delivered the Advance Party every year in the previous growing-up period and – as far as I know – also every year in the period before it. For this reason, state council Jan Tore Sanner is right in saying that there has never been such a broad consensus on common policies – because the Progress Party has completely turned around and should not be surprised that they are being attacked by the Parliament in terms of common policies, with the history they have from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3477	It must be allowed to say that one can be a little disappointed when we hear the debate and hear everyone who speaks very well about Sami language. It has been established by a number of representatives that we agree to Unesco's opinion that southern Sami is a seriously threatened language. Still, this vast majority of people can't say that we're adding 3.3 million. On the table, we'll save this school. It is very sad, when I see that there is an actual majority here in the Chamber who think it would be wise, useful and sensible – and then the Norwegian National Assembly will not be able to do this. That's a funny situation. I could imagine that the Council of State might come up and say that after thinking a little bit about it, he will go to his colleague Røe Isaksen tomorrow and say that now we have to sit down, take a cup of coffee – we clean up this. It would serve the councils in honor, and it would be a useful and great Christmas presage for those who use the school in Hattfjelldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3490	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e3687	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the internal training legislation in order to temporarily grant aid to undertakings affected by market failures due to economic conditions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the reform in order to find a long-term solution for those who experience a reduction in net income from 1 January 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6321	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on Framework Box 7, I. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6335	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of the Committee on Framework Box 7, III, point 2. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6350	A vote shall be taken on the appointment of the Committee to Framework Box 7, II, the remainder of III and IV to VIII. The President assumes that everyone will now vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6367	A total of 38 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-27, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 28-32, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 33 to 38, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 35, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on a new thinghouse in Molde.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start rapidly the construction of new closed prisons in Agder, Ålesund, Mosjøen, Vik and Hustad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6400	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop changing the structure of 110 centres.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6417	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34, 36 and 37, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop working on further mergers of courts.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start the process of upgrading Section A of Oslo Prison.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the responsibility for operating costs of Storskog Border Station is to be transferred from Border Commissioner to Finnmark Police District.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6446	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Workers' Party, The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start building new, closed places on Agder, Halden, Skien and Vik prison as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6463	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29, 31 and 32, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the security of Oslo District Court.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a new children’s home in the police district of East.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to designate the means of operation of the children’s houses.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6492	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop structural changes in court structure. However, if local agreement on aggregation is reached, these may be implemented.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6511	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to explain how the Progress Party's proposal on job guarantee for police students, cf. Document 8:97 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6528	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, 8–11, 13, 15, 17 and 19–26, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a national plan to facilitate centres for the training and building of competences between emergency and emergency seats.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a pilot project for one or more national centres of competence for the exercise and interoperability of social security and preparedness.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark the funds for the State Children’s House within the framework of the Police Directorate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan to provide more pediatric practitioners with social pediatric competence in the country’s hospitals.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children’s homes in the country are provided with a level playing field for the financing of medical personnel and competences.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way to strengthen the security of the country’s warehouses and law enforcement.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue the model for the calculation of the public pay-as-you-go rate.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to put forward a case on how to increase the recruitment of women to positions of police leadership.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the need to strengthen the framework conditions for voluntary organisations in the rescue services.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on a new Drammen thinghouse.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size calls for the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an assessment of challenges, actions undertaken or planned to address the design of cells, as well as an assessment of the regulatory framework for the use of smooth cells.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue Title Kleivgrend in Telemark as today.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Agder prison is expanded with its own women’s unit.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government of the notified capacity message in spring 2016 is asked to have its own chapter on the situation of women in prisons.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is given priority to launch the construction project at Storskog.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider the competence requirement for police officers.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of work on a national scalable operating centre, as recommended by the Gjørv Commission.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the mandate of the SLT Councils so that they can work systematically against the emergence of extreme environments and increase their resources accordingly.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen its efforts to combat violence and abuse against children, including violence and abuse against children online.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is requesting EUR 11 million within the agreed budgetary framework. kroner to Kripos for the investigation of online infringements.’» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6645	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 12, 14 and 16, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case with proposals for measures to strengthen free legal aid in Norway.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take clear action to improve equality and diversity in the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an overview of the actions taken.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the work on child matters in the courts.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The size of the government’s announced call in spring 2016 for capacity, construction and phase-out plans to assess the impact of the efficiency and red tape cuts on criminal services, in cooperation with employees’ organisations and prisoners’ organisations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6679	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose different models for annual discussions between the State and the Law Association in setting the public salary rate.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e6698	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in the notified notification to assess the fastest possible phase-out of the lease of prison sites in the Netherlands.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8394	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on Framework Box 5, I. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8408	The Committee shall then be consulted on the setting of the Framework Area 5, X. Here is the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote. The President assumes that the Right and the Advance Party want to vote against. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8426	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee in areas 5, II to IX and XI to XIII. The President assumes that everyone will now vote for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8443	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jorodd Asphjell, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the permanent armament of the Norwegian police as a result of the negative developments in the terrorist threat and the crime scene over time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8468	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make clear which assessments will be taken into account in the event of a temporary armament when they return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner on how the Stortinge could be more closely involved when the police are armed over a longer period of time, cf. the decision ifm. Document 8:34 S [[2014-2015]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that systematic information on the direct and indirect negative consequences of a temporary weapon is routinely obtained from the police districts, prior to the expiry of a temporary arms permit.’; The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8500	Here it is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting. The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8550	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mrs Klinge on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the location of the main seats in the new police districts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8583	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the construction of a new border station on Storskog.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8591	President! The Socialist Left must also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8596	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have then announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-12-17.ana.ud2662e8645	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
