ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e26	The called alternate for Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e35	The President will state that an enquiry has been made by the Control and Constitutional Committee regarding a hearing planned for the Committee. Due to difficulties in finding the time for the hearing, the Committee sent letters to the Presidency and requested that the hearing be held on a day of the Grand Meeting, i.e. tomorrow, Thursday, November 26. If the hearing is to take place on that day when there is a meeting in the Chamber, the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure must be waived. The President proposes that the request by the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that the Storting approve that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. Is there any objection to this? – It is not, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e51	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Tine Sundtoft, Anders Anundsen and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e58	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The climate summit in Paris is becoming incredibly important, and is undoubtedly a meeting about our future. There is no doubt that the outcome of the Paris meeting must be a legally binding agreement. Norway’s role and responsibilities at the meeting and in international climate change work are significant. The Minister for Climate and Environment therefore bears a heavy responsibility on his shoulders, not just for Norway's position, but for the future of the planet. During our reign, under Stoltenberg, we strengthened Norway's role and responsibility in international climate work for eight years. We got in place and strengthened the rainforest effort, we got increased energy assistance, and we showed our responsibility as a rich country and took an internationally clear role as part of our solidarity in the climate issue. After the baton has been handed over to the blue-blue government, this has been significantly changed by the government. Not rhetorical, for there are the good ones, but actually, through practical policies and ability to prioritise. There we see that it is far from rhetoric to political concreteization. 2015 has been a long run towards the Paris Summit. The current style is not essential for a good jump, but it is important to complete the jump edge. What's going on? Instead of speeding up Norway’s international role, increasing its contribution and reinforcing its solidarity with the climate challenge, the government falls on the brink. What do world leaders think of dramatic cuts in climate aid, what do world leaders think of gathering in Paris? If the Council of State really believes that money and climate assistance are crucial, what do the leaders of the world now think and believe about Norway's efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e73	I am very pleased that the representative of Aasland is asking this question four days before the prime minister and I am on the plane to Paris for a meeting that, if we succeed, will lead to the most important agreement in our time. It is a heavy responsibility the government has taken on. That is exactly why the government has spent a lot of time working on international climate change. I have personally spent 33 days in international climate meetings in 2015 to discuss this and prepare us for Paris. Norway is now being invited to all meetings of the Major Economies Forum, together with the largest emitters – not because we are the largest emitter, but because we contribute constructively. The role Norway got in Lima last year in overtime when we sat and consulted the ten groups in the world to see if we could manage to find a compromise before we broke up is an example of that. I attended the so-called Pre-COP in Paris 14 days ago, which was the last meeting before we now meet at the climate summit. There, Norway and I were asked to conduct discussions about ambition. Why is Norway being asked to do so? Well, because we're the country in the world that first started talking about the need for a long-term goal, the need for Paris to be the turning point in international climate change. When we had this Pre-COP in Paris, it was after we had made the supplementary proposition for 2016. I did not hear anyone comment what we had to suggest there, in a special situation due to refugees. The country notes that Norway — including the previous government — has been able to rely on long-term international climate funding. We're despite the last cuts in the world summit on this. It's noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e82	I believe rhetoric in this Chamber has little impact on Norway's impact in Paris, unfortunately. What we're actually experiencing right before the Paris Summit is that the Norwegian climate action is being dramatically reduced internationally. There is no doubt that we clearly see, at least as far as we are outside the government, that the climate minister lacks an impact in the government. My question is therefore: is it going to be easier or more difficult to achieve climate change reductions if all the governments of all the countries did just like her government and cut off in international climate aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e89	Now, in my first answer, I tried to convey the role of Norway beyond the borders of Norway. We do not achieve good results in Paris because of good or bad rhetoric in this Chamber. We reach an agreement in Paris because we work with other countries. That is what Norway has done constructively over many years. Despite the efforts of the representative to weaken this Minister for Climate and Environment, this Minister for Climate and Environment was asked by the host country of France not later than 14 days ago to conduct discussions on ambition. Because what Norway says and what we do is closely related. The fact that Brazil has now delivered its own very offensive emission targets, that they can show that the Amazon Fund is working is thanks to the Norwegian climate and forest investment – and what we have delivered on this. Despite being cut next year, we will follow up the results-based agreements we have with important forest countries. It notices the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e96	It opens for follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e99	I want to continue where the Council of State ended. She said this is noticing the world. I totally agree that the world doesn't notice good rhetoric, but it notices what we're actually doing. On 29 October, the Minister for Climate Change gave a speech in London, including: Prince Charles. She said that Norway was ready to increase its allocation to the rainforest. Then she traveled home, and the next day the same climate minister proposed to cut almost 400 million. kr in the rainforest bet. In his defense for the cut, the minister said: ‘We have not left the principle of contributing SEK 3 billion annually.’ Well, that's probably a good principle, but a principle plays little role when you suggest cut. Climate is not saved by principles but by actual decisions. Does the Minister for Climate Change think that the Paris meeting will be successful if people travel there with principles, while, when they come home, they cut the budgets at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e111	There is a close link between what countries now deliver and what we are expected to do under the Paris Agreement. 170 countries have now delivered their emission targets. Several of these countries have said that they need financial assistance from other countries. Therefore, it is an important principle for Norway that we are long-term. We already said in Warsaw two years ago that we are going to continue the climate and forest activity until 2020. That's exactly what gives predictability to the countries we're working with. That is why – as I mentioned – Brazil can achieve ambitious emission targets. And that's why I've repeatedly explained that despite being cut in an extraordinary situation, Norway is the country in the world that delivers the most in terms of international climate finance. It's noticed. We will continue to do this, despite the cuts in the 2016 budget. And this trusts other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e120	Simon Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e123	First of all, I would say that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Government Party provides a significantly greener budget. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said yesterday to NTB that we are too late to take action to achieve agreed climate targets by 2020. Furthermore, the Prime Minister points out that the development of the railways takes too long, and that we are therefore not allowed to move transport from road to road as early as desired. Does the Prime Minister, Tine Sundtoft, share his pessimism with regard to climate objectives adopted in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e131	I think Prime Minister Erna Solberg had good reflections about this, where we feel that this matter stands. Firstly, it is very good that we land a budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. There is no doubt that it is on this side of the political centre line that most offensive climate and environmental policies are provided. We have said several times that we did not come to the table when we took over in government just over two years ago. We were the ones who ordered the gap report and saw how we were going to achieve the 2020 targets. We've reduced the gap, and it's never been as low as it is now – 6.5 million tons. This is because we've strengthened our ambitions through the 2030s. What we're concerned about is doing the right actions, where railway operations may be one of the most important things. But the Prime Minister is quite right that if we reduce emissions in 2019 or 2021 due to our railway effort, then we are subordinate to the shift we are going to have towards a low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e138	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e141	There will be a little more about what Norway is saying, and what Norway is doing. Last year, the Councils of State said: «A total of $45 billion of energy is to be invested by 2030. If we are to be able to cut emissions and achieve climate targets, this money must be invested correctly. We are now contributing to increased investment in renewable energy sources.’ This was said by the Council of State in connection with the presentation by the government of an increase in the capital of State power by 10 billion. kr. In the budget agreement, which the representatives just stood here and praised, the government has taken 5 of the 10 billion away from Statkraft. So it was 5 billion less to invest in renewable energy sources. Does the Council of State think that it will lead to more — or less — renewable energy deployment and does the Council of State think that there is a good signal of Norwegian climate follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e153	This government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has proposed and endorsed our 2030 targets, where we have five areas of action, and where renewable energy is one of the five areas of action. This is one area where Norway can both cut emissions in Norway and also contribute beyond Norway’s borders. That is why this government has invested a lot in renewable energy, and we have improved the framework conditions. We have proposed new depreciation rules for wind power, we have made adjustments to the electricity certification system, we have given concession to two foreign tables, and we have provided good opportunities for network connectivity on Fosen and in the Snillfjord area. We've given Statkraft an equity deposit of 5 billion. kr, and we have now also started to look at a new investment fund such as: shall invest in renewable energy. We want that fund to have a long-term management capital of 20 billion. kr. So we do a lot in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e160	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e163	I want to go back to Paris and the Norwegian international forest and rain forest activity, because it is clear that it is important that we keep pressure on it, including from 2020 onwards, and that we have extended cooperation with other countries. It's not just about the means you use, it's about the results you can achieve in terms of reducing deforestation. I am also interested in whether we can look at any additions to the processes that we have, because in the budgetary agreement that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government have now concluded, we also have our own comment on increased investment in mangrove forests. Then it's not just about caring, but it's also about re-establishing a lot. Then my question is, how does the Council of State view such a development, with an extension of the bet, including mangrove forests?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e172	When we have also proposed a global objective of climate neutrality, we are totally dependent on our being able to take care of our rainforests as well as getting more rainforests. Therefore, we are very pleased that both the United Kingdom and Germany are now participating in Norway’s efforts in international climate and forest cooperation. The fact that we are now speeding up the results-based agreements – that countries understand that we are paying for results, and that we are getting with the private sector in that cooperation – is noticing, and that makes it more interesting for other countries to be involved in this. There I believe that this government has got a further revolution in a very important work. We know that mangrove forests are very important to some countries, but the countries themselves decide what kind of forest they want to bet on. If any of our possible new future partners are interested in betting on mangrove forests, it is natural to follow it up, but we are not the ones from this hall to define which kind of forest gives the most effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e179	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e182	The two-degree goal is possible, but perhaps not entirely realistic, stated Prime Minister Erna Solberg on Monday this week, and she added that the two-degree goal will not be achieved unless the world at the same time ensures poor countries access to energy. There is still a billion people living in extreme poverty around the world, pointed out Solberg. On the day the Prime Minister says that the two-degree target is barely reached, the Left and Christian People's Party agree to cut support for renewable energy in poor countries by 620 million. kr. If the Prime Minister had got what she wanted, it would have been even bigger. This leads to a breach of concluded agreements between Norway and developing countries. Postponing or scrapping of electrification in earthquake-capped Nepal, postponement or scrapping of village electrification in Tanzania, launching or cutting Mount Coffee in Liberia – is this what is long-term? And is it that the government cuts in support of poor countries' commitment to renewable energy because the Prime Minister has given up the two-degree target?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e191	This government has not given up its 2D target. That's why we work so hard to get a good deal in Paris. That is why we say that we must have three demands in the negotiations. We need a global emissions target for a climate-neutral world. We're talking about it in 2050, but I think maybe the majority is going to be in this century. That's why we say we need to adjust the emission targets at regular intervals, preferably every five years, and we need to have a binding and robust reporting system under the new agreement. As of now, 170 countries have delivered their emission targets. We see that through what's delivered there, we've reduced the theory of a 3.6 degree heating down to 2.7 degrees. But this is not enough. That is why we want to enter into the agreement that all countries have to do more over time. We are committed to helping those countries that are asking for international climate finance to achieve their objectives. That is why we are the country in the world that provides the most international climate finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e198	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e202	I would like to continue with questions to the climate minister, but she will have a little breath, so my question goes to the Minister of Justice. I might have challenged him at difficult times with asylum policy and stricter border controls, but today I have chosen to spend time on something that I think is incredibly important, namely how we can combat violence against children. Too many children are affected by violence. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress estimates that perhaps as many as 5 pst. be subjected to violence. One knows that in 2006, 81 reports were related to violence in close relationships. This year, it's estimated to be over 2,500. There is a huge increase in reviews and in issues that emerge. It could be, as we've looked at the news, a 30-year-old kindergarten worker who seems to admit assault on 17 children in Tromsø, or the case that we're reading about in Fredriksstad Blad today, where a man is suspected of assaulting his two children. That is why I am pleased with the measures taken by the Council of State to combat violence against children, and I am also pleased and proud of the measures we got into the conciliation, which includes: enhanced prevention, family protection, Alternatives to Violence, multiple health sisters. We strengthened the investigation, and the children's houses get approx. Forty million. kr. In the case from Fredrikstad, the police say that there is no time to investigate the infringement and ask for a children's home. Perhaps the funds could result in a new children’s home in Eastfold or in the new East police district. We also strengthened post-protection, that it can be provided by means of a dedicated centre for children exposed to violence. However, it is perhaps so important that a unanimous growth has said that we should have a stepping-up plan – a clear goal and a stepping-up – in order to get more money into it. We adopted it in the spring, and we have said that it will come by the spring of 2016. What is the ambition of the Council of State? What is it he wants to put into that escalation plan in his area of responsibility to combat violence against children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e213	I would first like to thank you for a very important and good question. Violence and child abuse are still a taboo area, although it is now different from what it has been in the past. There are still many children who are subjected to violence and abuse, and who too much do not get the help they need. It is an advantage — or a positive development — that more people now report. It's been a situation of enormous darkness over a very long time. The fact that one is now researching this, that we are talking about it as politicians, that we have a different focus on it in the auxiliaries – from the municipality to the police side, to the prosecution side – helps enough that more people dare to take the step completely out. Then I think it is important when we are now working on this escalation plan, that we see the whole thing. For this is not something that can only be solved on the police track – and that’s also the big picture – this is something that needs to be solved as a social problem, in cooperation between all levels of government and all those working with children. It's e.g. Very worrying when we look at the dark figures that we still have, and we know that there are so many who still live under violence and abuse, that despite that knowledge, it is difficult to get others to report – i.e. people who are either in the community or in the school environment, teachers and child protection. The threshold for addressing this issue with the police is too high. Unfortunately, it also means a lot to what kind of help measures can be put in place and to get these children out. In the plan of action we are now working on, the main perspective is to contribute to a holistic focus, how we, as a society, can contribute to this. So I can't now tell you what we're going to bring to spring, but it's very important to us that this is a document that provides a good basis for the decisions the Stortinge is going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e222	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I'm very pleased with the approach, because I think that investing in prevention is the second most important thing we can do. Now the Council of State is responsible for the field of justice, so I can continue to ask in the field for which he is responsible. One sees that the waiting time from one case is being revealed until a child is interrogated is still too long. The Stortinget has now adopted new rules, on the basis of a good proposal from the Council of State, which says that within seven days the first hearing should have taken place in the most serious cases. Nevertheless, you see that the deadline is broken for a very long time. 50 pst of the first questioning seems to be taken only after one month. And there's a big difference between the police districts. When I look at the numbers, I've seen that Sogn and Fjordane, Troms and Finnmark are good examples. They're up to 80 pst. within 30 days. Follo and Rome are only able to handle 20-30 pst. So there are extreme differences. The law says that a hearing should be taken within seven days. Can the councils accept that the law is being broken so often, and can he accept so many differences, so bad police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e229	The simple answer to that question is no, I can't accept that. That is why I am following this up in my monthly meetings with the police director quite concretely and down at the police district level to look at developments and challenge the police director to concrete follow-up actions in the unsuccessful police districts. It is not acceptable for children to wait beyond the requirements of the law and it is not acceptable that there is such a difference between police districts. There is no doubt that more police districts have significant potential for improvement. Those who succeed succeed because they focus on this from top to bottom, because they set aside the necessary resources to ensure that children are interrogated within the time they are going to. It's also about specializing. I myself have been involved in the opening of project November, where one specialises in competence on violence and assault to ensure that one should have a necessary professional focus as well. There is no doubt that there are more police districts that have much to learn from others who succeed in this. Now, one of the important steps is to strengthen this environment through the near-police reform, to ensure that there is equal treatment, to ensure that there is the necessary resources to ensure that the weakest of the weak get the follow-up they need. It's not acceptable to have what we have today. As the representative is aware, this has been an important focus area for me over a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e238	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Olaug Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e241	An important part of the escalation plan for violence against children is to put in place doctors who have a specialisation in this particular case with violence against children, in all child wards in Norway. The Christian People's Party is very happy that we got 45 million in place. This is indicated in the budget agreement, because this is important. These doctors need to cooperate closely with the children's homes if we're to make it work. As the Children’s Ombudsman has quite rightly pointed out, not all children who have been subjected to violence are currently undergoing medical examination in the context of questioning at the state’s children’s home. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure that all children in children's homes receive medical examination, so that they are well cared for, but also that we can ensure proper and good results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e250	I fully agree with the approach of the representative of Bollestad. The question of the health professional competence of children’s homes lies below the Minister of Health, so it is the Minister of Health who is constitutionally responsible for it. But I know, because there is close dialogue between the Minister of Health and me, that the Minister of Health has focused heavily on this, including in the letters of allocation and the follow-up of the health regions, in order to facilitate adequate pediatric competence to enable a person to carry out the studies in the children's home that are needed. So there's pressure on the competence, but there's also pressure on the capacity of the children's homes. Therefore, it is also important now that we provide children’s homes together with a resource-based capacity to carry out both interrogations and the studies to be carried out in children’s homes. The whole point of the children’s homes is to collect all this in one place in order to minimise the burden on the child, and it is absolutely essential that the tests are carried out in such a way that it is as gentle as possible for the child. And then we have to have competence, and we have to have the capacity available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e255	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e258	I want to follow up on Ropstad's question about waiting times, because even last October the Minister of Justice thought it was unacceptable that the waiting times were too long for children. Now the government has finally put in place a new derogation regulation, which is very good. We have agreed on the compulsory use of children's houses for all children under 16, and agreed on new deadlines for matters, etc. This means that the pressure on the children's houses is now greater than ever. These include: the reason why the Workers' Party wishes to earmark means to children's homes as well as to increase them by at least 40 pst. I also liked that Ropstad signaled that he wanted to support proposals for a new children's house in police districts east, which the Labour Party has a staff member. What I'm asking is: What is the level of justice the Minister of Justice has to make sure that vulnerable children who are subjected to election or abuse do not have to wait unnecessarily long? What concrete plan does the Minister of Justice have?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e265	Let me first just say a little bit about what has been happening since 2013. There has been a positive trend in the number of children’s homes and interviews, as the number of reports is much higher. There has been a very strong cross-political focus on – how are we going to increase the level of review? And it's probably increased considerably more and faster than you could predict. It has pushed capacity, and it has also led to a rise in waiting times, which we had a very positive development in a good period of time. What is planned is, first of all, to make all police officers responsible for the capacity required in the children's homes. It is the responsibility of the police officers, it is a framework-funded system, and it is a clear political and police priority that one must provide the necessary capacity – the necessary training capacity and that each police district has the necessary number of interrogators. There has also been an increase in the capacity of the Police College, so that you should have better access to that competence. It's relocating people who have that competence, but who have other police jobs today, so that we can bring the waiting times down to an acceptable level. And it's through the near-police reform to ensure strong enough professional environments that one can keep this focus over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e272	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e276	This theme is important, and it is good to ask questions about it. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, under the Red-Green Government, had a special commitment to the children and to violence and assault on children. I allowed myself to be a little particularly happy in the Great Mountain just because of it, because it was when the children's houses began to roll out around the country, and the children's houses are many good reasons to strengthen further. We are forced to have competence and to adapt locally to this, and this has led to good cooperation between relevant actors – in some cases a major step forward for the children. My question is: Will the Minister of Justice consider children's homes more places? Of course, I am aware that one cannot have too many – it is important with competence – but we have a country where there are so many distances that I still want to ask the Minister of Justice the question: Will he evaluate it more places?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e283	As we see evolution now, it may be relevant to consider. We have ten children's houses today. They have had up to recently relatively good capacity. What we now see is that the capacity of many children's homes is under a very strong pressure. It could mean that we need more children's homes. It's part of the assessment that we have to do in the future. But it also depends on how much we can increase the capacity of the existing children's homes, so that one does not establish children's homes for the sake of the children's home, but that one establishes children's homes where there is actually the greatest need for it, and where it has the greatest effect for the children like that. have a shorter travel period. But it is also necessary to look at this based on where the case is based. I think it's a very positive commitment that both Knut Storberget had as Minister of Justice, and that I continue with, and that the Klinge and very many other justice politicians in Stortinget have to make sure that we have the necessary focus on the weakest of the weakest, and that's the children. We have to make arrangements for them to be interrogated in a way that is best suited to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e290	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e293	Today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and this afternoon many of us are going to show that we want and demand a stronger effort in the fight against violence against women. At the same time, this week we have a budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left that does not reverse the cut of 10 million. kr for compensation for victims of violence in Vardø. The employees of the office who say that they are already understaffed and that the cut will offer a worse offer to victims of violence. Does the Minister of Justice feel that it is right to cut off offers to those who are subjected to violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e298	The Office for the Compensation of Victims has been reduced in accordance with the proposal of the government of which SV was a member. There was a temporary strengthening of the allocation to the Office in connection with the terrorist attacks on 22 July. It was then underlined that it was a temporary allocation. That's what this government has been following up on. Then I agree with the representative Bergstø that it is absolutely essential that we now have a strong focus on how we can ensure that the offer of victims of violence is not reduced. The government has launched a comprehensive review of the entire offer of victims of violence, in order to ensure that a person receives a better offer throughout the country and see these offers in the context. But in the case of the Victim Compensation Office, it's just a follow-up to what was the premise of the previous government, and that's what the government has been doing. Then, of course, the government will continuously assess whether there is a need for a general strengthening of the appropriations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e307	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e310	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice and Security has, in his time, been one of the foremost champions of various reforms. Police reforms, reorganisation of emergency units and changes in court structures are some examples. The centre party wanted a different police reform than the majority of the Stortinget decided, because we believe that large-scale centralization is not the solution, but we are aligning ourselves with what was agreed, and are concerned that the result should be as good as possible under the regulations that are in place. It is crucial for a good result of change processes that the parties to which it is assigned become involved and at least experience that they are being listened to. When it comes to police reform, the municipalities have been invited to a joint high-level meeting at the Police College, but they are denied a single meeting with the Police Directorate to present the case. Many municipalities have reacted strongly to this. The fact that many municipalities report that they have not achieved good dialogue with the Police Directorate about the changes in the police districts and the location of the main seat of the police officers is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a bad sign. When you want to merge larger units, there will always be losers in the function locating battle. However, the goal must be good processes where the most reliable of what is happening is reliable and can accept the conclusions. Does the Council of State think the process has been good enough when spokesmen and other listening parties find that they have not been able to engage in dialogue with the Directorate of Police?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e323	First, let me say that I very much appreciate the constructive approach of the Central Party to the near-police reform, when they say that even if they were against it – which is not a large-scale centralisation reform, but actually a close police reform to get more policemen out to the people most – they will still help to make it the best possible. That, I think, is a very positive approach, and it is a good citizen for the cooperation that one must have in any case on the near-police reform in the future. Now I think it's important to distinguish between some of the recordings that the representative made, because there was a mix of different relationships that the mouth got into one question. Let me focus on the question related to main seats. On the issue of main seats, there has been a wide consultation. The hearing period expired on 17 November, and there have been a number of hearings – I do not want to be arrested on the number, but I think there have been over 150 hearings on this process. It means that there has been an open, democratic process, where all those who have been involved, and who have wanted to make recordings, have done so in the consultation process. Now the Police Directorate sits and evaluates these hearings and looks at the impact it will have on their professional assessment of where the main seats should be. Then it's up to the Police Directorate to choose the method for this that's most appropriate. Having things at public hearings and getting written feedback ensures notority, it ensures that everyone can make recordings, no matter how long they travel to Oslo. I don't think there's any bad way to get input into an important process. It may well be that some rapporteurs might also intend to have specific, own meetings with the Police Directorate at this level. I understand that it is difficult for the Police Directorate to hold several dozen meetings in addition to a big meeting and in addition to an ordinary hearing, so I think this is a process that is well in line with the ordinary process of major reorganisations and issues where one depends on getting input from others, and there is an open and good occasion for it. As regards the local process, it will not be affected by the process related to main seats. I don't get time to say more about that now – but maybe in the next answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e338	It's definitely for the Council of State to get it. Only a short comment first. More police to most people would like to mean more police to those who live in central districts. We need the police all over the country. It is obvious that the Council of State does not take fully into account what the spokespersons have reacted to. At the top of it all, there is every reason to say that the government violates its own guidelines for the location of state jobs when they leave to the very Police Directorate to decide which police officer is to be placed in the individual police districts. The government's own guidelines state that, in the event of major structural changes, the department and government will decide on the location of government jobs, not the budgets. After all, a reduction from 27 to 12 police districts needs to be a major structural change. Does not the Council agree that reducing the number of police districts from 27 to 12 is a major structural change, and what is the reason why the government chose not to follow its own guidelines on the location of state jobs in this specific case?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e347	Let me first say that releasing power from administration to police work will lead to more police in the whole country, not just in the most central strata. Since the government joined, we have proposed 1,054 more police posts. There's a dramatic increase in the number of police posts. We continue to build it, and during 2020 we will have two police officers and women per 1,000 inhabitants. So there's a huge effort on the police all over the country, not just in central lines. On the issue of own guidelines: firstly, this has been discussed with the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has supported the government’s view on how this should be done. I am very pleased about that – I think it is an appropriate and correct way to solve a professional question. I have answered questions in Stortinget previously related to guidelines for the location of state jobs, and I believe it is obvious that they are not broken. They shall be taken into account by the Directorate of Police and several of the parameters underlying the locational elections to be finalised by the Directorate of Police take account of those guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e354	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e358	It's usually a little funny that the Council of State is so pleased with the process when all those to be heard, it seems that this has been a very closed and little open process. Not much imagination is needed to predict that the grand centralisation of police reform will culminate before Christmas with twelve police officers in the twelve largest cities – a large majority of men, who have already been in the post for a long time and have been appointed by the Police Directorate without any influence from political authorities – corruption and government. Then, too, the government has a new structural reform in progress in the area of justice, when the courts are now planned to be centralised. That process is currently taking place as a footnote in the budget, but now to my delight I have seen that Right-wing representatives in Fosen and in Namdalen say that it has been cancelled for the District Courts there. Then I was very happy, so I would like to have it confirmed by the Council of State and ask if it means that the whole termination of all District Courts is now being stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e365	It is too tempting just to comment briefly on this large-scale centralization claim, because it is not a large-scale centralization when we move the chief of police and centralize the small part plus the centre of operations. That's what frees the police force that we can put around. That means that we can get lenght offices that have the ability to do the job you want lenghtsmen's offices to do. That means we're getting a stronger local police force, a stronger local police force. I think it's a bit of a shame that the Central Party still maintains the vision that where the police chief is, there all the police are going to be gathered, because that's not the case, that's not the purpose of this reform at all. In the case of the courts and the proceedings there, they go in two races. One is what we've notified the Storting in the proposition. Of course, we're waiting to see if the Storting has special views about it, but that's what you can call relatively simple aggregations. The question of what is the big process the Court administration is working on is much more complex. The government has not taken a decision on whether or not to continue, but we believe it is right that the court administration may be allowed to make its proposals, and then the government will have to consider the proposals that the court administration makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e374	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e377	Yeah, we'll see what the Justice Committee agrees on when it comes to the courts. I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice for what, like the main question here, I also feel as a concern about police reform. It is natural that when reforms take place, different locations of e.g.: main seats or bilge offices are disturbed. And in the near-police reform, both the government parties and, not least, the majority here in the Stortingen in the agreement we got, gave a very clear indication that the local places should both have good processes to ensure the best possible police out there where people are, and not least to be fast on the ground. However, we were also clear that in terms of bundling districts, it can be demonstrated that skills jobs can be located in several places within the police district. What does the Minister of Justice do to ensure that that part of the conciliation is followed up in the mergers now taking place from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e386	It is important, as Ropstad also does, to separate the location of the main seats and the location of the police chief and the operating centre from what is to be done locally. The local processes are not yet in operation at district level. First, someone has to put in place the police officers and the location. We're now working to get that in place as quickly as possible, and then the local processes will start from the turn of the year. There it is absolutely vital that you have a very inclusive discussion with the municipalities. After all, it is a question of providing the best possible police services in a broad field, and then one is totally dependent on having a good and close cooperation with the individual municipality, both in terms of delivery and police services, and in order to achieve a synergy of the efforts of the municipalities, for example. in prevention. So the fact that you're capable of getting that dialogue from the start is absolutely crucial. There is a clear indication in the proposition, in the agreement between the Government Parties and the Left and in the setting of local follow-up. A separate framework for the implementation of these local processes was established to ensure its satisfactory follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e395	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e398	The reason why police reform was absolutely necessary is that we need to enable the police to meet the challenges we face in our society, whether in terrorist acts, natural disasters or other types of crime. But it is also important that we use the other resources we have in our society, and that we coordinate, so that we can meet the challenges we face at all times in the best possible way. That is why we have a point in the agreement on police reform that an overview of the available response resources available at non-governmental organisations, HRS, fire and rescue facilities should be ensured at all times. So I'd like to challenge the Minister of Justice a little bit about how we're prepared, and how we're coordinated with all the agencies and volunteer organizations that have to contribute if anything happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e407	In fact, there is a very large and extensive work going on. This is mainly about technical opportunities and resources to manage an overview of resources. In the past, this Narre project has been intended to pool these resources. What we're working on now is getting to a system that allows the operating centres to see all the emergency resources first, a system that we can gradually develop with the corresponding follow-up of where the volunteer organisations have their emergency resources. That work is well under way. In addition to our own professional environment, we are now talking to other professional environments to see how a purely technical person can solve it. I'm not a technologist, but as I understand it, it should be quite easy to solve at an overall level between emergency situations. That discussion is well under way; a separate working group has been set up to deal with it. In addition, we will then have the dialogue with the voluntary organisations on how to obtain the corresponding labelling, or GPS marking, of part of their central rescue resources. There's also a discussion about whether we can't already use DNK and the new emergency switchboards to get GPS signals. It's an exciting and important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e414	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e417	We were very pleased that we got a deal about the police reform at Stortinget, and we think it got much better when it went from here than when it came – to say it like that – and we are happy about that. What we are concerned about is that we get some feedback from concerned rapporteurs who are afraid of the local police force. We have decided that there should be local grounding of police force, and there should be police force out where people live. I would like to challenge the Council of State on how the Council of State will actually follow up that point in the conciliation, so that the rapporteurs do not have to worry about the disappearance of the local police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e426	We have a comprehensive follow-up process in the Department for all aspects of the police reform. We have rigged our own project organisation to follow up all the parts of the police reform that it is important that we get the results out of what lies in both the proposition and the setting, and in the broad consensus that I am very happy that we got together with, among other things. The working party. It also strengthens the strength of the content of the reform that it is such a broad majority. We have rigged a completely separate project organisation to follow this up to the point and dot. I follow this up in my meetings with the police director and follow this very closely. An example of an action that has been implemented, which can help to ensure at least some of the rapporteurs, is the project called ‘Political work on the ground’, which we have recently received an evaluation, which shows that the police are much more effective and provide much better police services around the districts where this has been tested, and it has been in Troms, in Rogaland and in Westfold. The results are that the police are more effective, the investigation is much faster, and the case remains are going down because you get freed up capacity. It means once again that one gets freed police resources to be out there doing professional prevention, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e434	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e437	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The agreement in Paris is going to be one from below and up, i.e. that it is the sum of the obligations of the different countries that make it possible to avoid catastrophic global warming or not. So there will be no international carbon price, but yet the pricing of emissions in the years to come will be very important in order to achieve the target in the different countries. In Norway, we are waiting for the recommendation of the Green Tax Commission, which is crucial for the follow-up to how we are to praise our emissions. And the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties agree on a follow-up of the Green Tax Commission with a working group with the parties, to be chaired by the Prime Minister. Our obligation is to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, and both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have stated that much of this needs to be done in the transport sector. The Council of State also pointed out earlier in this questionnaire that it is important that we have proper environmental measures that work. My question as to whether the Council of State is now being asked is that user charges, CO2 taxes and mineral oil taxes need to be increased in the years to come, in order to reduce emissions in the transport sector and to make alternative fuels also competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e451	It is quite right, as the representative Elvesuen said, that the whole point of the world's climate work now is that things are going to happen from below and up. Therefore, it is very gratifying that 170 countries have delivered their emission targets. We delivered our targets at the end of March. We're going to cut 40 pst. Until 2030 and has outlined here the five areas in which we have to do it. Transport is one of the five. We know that transport accounts for about one third of Norwegian emissions. That means that we have to do a lot in transport in Norway, and that's why it's very good what was done now through the budget agreement, and what we have to do more through the Green Tax Commission. And I think, just when we've set a pretty ambitious goal of cutting 40 pst. By 2030, we need to be prepared to use new tools, as well as to strengthen some of those we have today. So I think it was good that we four parties got the country a budget. As I said earlier today, there is no doubt that it is on this side of the political centreline that offensive climate and environmental policies are now being provided. What was agreed through the budgetary agreement, that one should follow up the Green Tax Commission quite quickly after this comes, and that the Prime Minister is also asked to sit in the chair of that review, I think it is quite clear that we need to have good cooperation, and we have to look at everything we can do, because there is no doubt that we have to cut a lot in transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e458	I thank you for your answer. I think it's important to take on board how much change we need, and how fast they need to get. According to this summer's report, almost all new cars sold in ten years' time must be zero-emission cars. By 2030 the whole heavy transport sector must be fossil-free. This has to be done in addition to efforts on public transport and good urban and urban development, and calls for zero emissions in emerging areas, as has been done by the four parties in this budget unit. The question then remains: is the Council willing to set the level of fees in a range that makes it work, in order to achieve the emission targets by 2030? There is no doubt that there are strong instruments that need to be, and it is important that this is already signalled for both Norwegian business and all residents of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e467	I fully agree with the representative of Elvesuen that strong instruments must be used. We are doing a lot now within new state planning guidelines to plan cities and agglomerations in such a way that we reduce the need for transport. We do more in public transport, pedestrian and cycle routes and rail, but we know that in a country like Norway there will be a need for some use of a car. Then the cars used must be in such a condition that in the long term they release almost nothing. It is a pleasure that the Norway Group next year has purchased three electric trucks. So much of what we thought a few years ago was science fiction, we see now is reality. We see that technology is playing along. When we now conclude an agreement with the EU, the EU will make strict demands that we follow this up, so that we have to use more instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e472	It opens for follow-up questions – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e475	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture, because the other sector to which the Prime Minister draws attention in what the representative of Elvesuen referred to is the agricultural sector. Agricultural debates tend to discuss production objectives and income. There are important debates, but the climate needs to be higher on the agenda, including in this sector. That's why I'm looking forward to what the sample that's going to look at agriculture and the climate challenge is coming up. But before that: does the Minister of Agriculture agree with the Left that agriculture must also cut its emissions as part of the green shift, and what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e482	The government also aims to cut emissions from the agricultural sector. In 2013, the agricultural sector stood for 8.7 pst. of the emissions. What is important in the future is to bet on research and innovation and to put new technologies into practice, which can reduce emissions. It is about optimal feeding, optimal fertilisation and good drainage conditions. Over the agricultural agreement, we're spending over 150 million. kr for targeted measures to reduce emissions. I believe that there is a discussion in the future regarding the fact that we also have a goal in Norway to increase production. We want, for example: to raise the production of beef, and we have increased the production of sheep meat. In isolation, it will increase the emissions of those outputs. But if we're going to have an agriculture all over the country, we're going to bet on these parts of Norwegian agriculture, because it's those that eat grass, which we have in large parts of the country. So the emissions are going down, but the production is going up, and so we have to do this in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e489	Per Rune Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e492	My follow-up question goes to the climate minister. What we hear here from the discussion on the issue so far suggests that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a complicated issue even in the world’s richest country – and in the best country to live in, to which we have been measured. What I'm concerned about in front of Paris is how we can achieve good international agreements that ensure global development. We see that we have problems in Norway in achieving our targets. Developing countries are much closer to it. We have always said that we need to reduce global emissions, and we must therefore also be prepared to contribute internationally to achieve this. What the government took from the previous government was high sums spent on international cooperation on climate change. It's just a saga – now it goes down every time it's a crossroads. So my question is, how will the government change from rhetoric to action in terms of international climate context?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e499	I think it's a little strange in this room to hear the expression 'a story only' – when I think 'a story only', it's that nothing happens. I said earlier today that we are the world's leading supplier of international climate finance. We're continuing the climate and forest effort, we're now getting even more results based, and we've also got cooperation with the private sector. So first of all, I think we're getting more out of the money now, because we get with the private sector, and second, we've said we're going to keep going with it. And the countries we work with, trust Norway, that's why they now deliver offensive emission targets, because they see that these instruments work. The fact that the Brazilian Development Bank is now working a lot more with the environment is because the Amazon Fund works. So what Norway has started is now having good ring-effects, and we're going to do more of this. It is important for us to cooperate with other countries, because the climate challenge is global.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e505	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e508	It is good that the Council of State has spent a lot of time preparing for the climate summit and talking to its colleagues around the world. It is a great recognition that our Council of State will also be allowed to conduct talks during the climate summit on ambitions. So that's how the Council of States is well-known, that we live in a global world where trade is important, and if we're to get the green shift, which we're all concerned with, the green solutions must take advantage of competition, so that it's the ones that are also being elected to the seventh and last. My question is simply whether the Council of State will also stress this in the talks and in the meetings she is going to have in Paris, that there is a competitive advantage for the green solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e513	First, I have to correct. What I was referring to was that under the pre-COP, the one that took place 14 days ago, I had the great joy and honour to conduct conversations within ambition. I think that when we get into the final phase in Paris now, it's the big countries that have to sit in the driver's seat to join and land such an agreement. We've been in this whole year, working a lot with other countries and stressing all the time that the Paris Agreement has to be of such a nature that when we leave Paris, there's no doubt that we have to change the way we plan for society. To bring about that change, we also need a private business that sees that green solutions are the future, that investors see that it is where it has to be invested. That's why it's so important that we get this in place in the agreement, and that Paris becomes a turning point in the way we cooperate internationally around the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e518	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e521	When the climate minister sits on the plane to Paris, she has brought with her suitcase both cut the rainforest rate and cut the state power's renewable effort. She also has a new charge on air travel, which costs business and people more than a billion dollars. kr annually. In the national budget, the government writes: ‘Extra measures in Norway for ETS will not contribute to the reduction of the total emissions of aviation in the EEA territory.’;» My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State agrees with the wording that this does not work. Or is this phrase in the State budget 'a saga only'?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e531	We have for a long time had CO2 tax on Norwegian air travel. We know that domestic flights account for 1.3 million tonnes of CO2. Getting an air tax now could mean that someone is considering: Should I get on that plane, or should I consider getting on the train? So one of the important things for the future when we're going to cut emissions is to set a price on emissions. As I said, we already have a CO2 tax on domestic flight fees, and now it is somewhat reinforced, through 80 kroner per ticket. So turning to the idea of setting a higher value for emissions is one of the things we need when we're going to convert Norway into a low-emission society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e545	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e548	It's my impression that the Council of State obviously has no impact on its government. In today's Business yesterday, Sundtoft says that it is in the transport sector that the government is planning to do the biggest climate cuts. Sundtoft says that the car and fuel charges will be changed, so that the car fleet is dominated by emission-free cars. I agree. In the answer I now get from the climate minister, I am not interested in knowing what the Left and Christian People's Party has come through to force the government to negotiate. I want to know the contribution of climate minister Sundtoft. Can Sundtoft provide an example of one significant change in car and fuel charges that she has received from the government college in order to achieve the objective of an emission-free car fleet by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e555	That's an interesting way to ask questions. The same representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, has been a member of a government and knows that one never refers to who gets through for what in a government, but what a government collectively stands for. This government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, agreed on the principles of car charges in the revised national budget this year. These are the same principles that have now been followed up by the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, where we put more emphasis on car emissions and less emphasis on engine power and weight. Therefore, the car charges are changed in this way. We've said, as part of the 2030 goals, that we have to take a lot of transport. This government has done more on public transport and rail, and we are now doing more on car charges than the previous government. I am pleased that the government is working on this overall, and also now has a good offensive policy with our two cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e562	‘Say no more’, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e567	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e571	The essence of Norwegian climate policy in the last ten years has been bold national targets and a categorical rejection of breaking down the targets on how to implement them in each sector, whether the government has been red or blue. As is known, national emissions have not fallen, they have increased, and in a sector where transport emissions have increased dramatically. Now we are in the interesting situation that the government and the climate minister say that the transport sector will take a large part of the 40 pst. the commitment to the EU. And the question is, when do we know how much cut the transport sector will take, and can the Council of State already tell us: what is a large part of the 40 pst? to be taken in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e578	What this government has contributed to through the 2030 targets, where we outline five areas where we are going to cut, is to make it clearer where Norway is going to contribute. Transport is one of those areas. Then we're going to negotiate with the EU to see how much we're going to cut out of the quota sector. But we already know before the negotiations that we are going to get a target that I see far closer to 40 pst. than the second scale, and we know that transport accounts for one third of Norway's emissions. That is why we are now preparing to cut off in the transport sector. That's why we're spending more on public transport, more on rail, and that's why we've started the change in vehicle charges to reward the cars that release at least. What's interesting when you look at the projections of emissions is that they're slightly downgraded in the future because there's a lower estimate of the amount of transport per person.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e585	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e588	I'm taking the chance to stand, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e593	Good thinking, Minister. The message from the climate negotiations in Paris is that the world will not impose emission reductions on Norway. We have to take action ourselves and decide to do the job at home. Through the 2008 climate agreement, we have agreed here in Stortinget that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will go down by 2020, to a maximum of 47 million tonnes. Since then, the expected emissions for 2020 have declined due to successful policies. Yesterday, the prime minister let the climate deal die in the VG. I shouldn't be surprised, because in Sundtoft's budget, the national emission target for 2020 is not mentioned once. It seems that the Minister for Climate and Environment wants us to forget that the Stortinget has adopted a national target for emissions reduction. The budget shows that emissions are expected to increase in the coming years to 54.9 million tonnes by 2020 – contrary to the agreed objective of the Stortingen to cut to a maximum of 47 million tonnes. It is obvious that the Health Council does not have a significant impact on the government when the government no longer has any serious plans to reach the climate agreement. When is the Council of State going to dry out telling the Storting that the government is declaring the climate agreement, when it is obvious that they are heading towards a climate loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e604	This government is not heading towards a climate loss. That's exactly why we first spend a lot of time and resources on international climate work, with a very competent Norwegian negotiating team that is really working for us in Paris to have a global agreement that sets the direction for the world. That is why we are working to achieve the global emissions target for a climate-neutral world, where we are also talking for Norway about regular adjustment of emissions targets, preferably every five years – and a robust and committed reporting system under the new agreement. That's why this government came to Stortinget with new targets for 2030, where we say we're going to decrease by 40 pst. We've also outlined five areas to do it, to make it more concrete. It's this government that also works to try to reach the 2020 climate deal. As the Prime Minister said, the goal is that we should do it. But this government did not come to the table of climate policy. We have had to step up our efforts on a collective basis, we have had to step up our efforts on the railways, we have had to do more to change car charges – but it is also this government that has got numbers on the table, and seen that we have never been so close to achieving this goal that we are. The national budget for 2015 is a policy-based projection up to and including the revised national budget for 2014. What we have now entered the 2015 and 2016 budget is not included in that projection. We work every day to reach the climate agreement – and the Prime Minister said the goal is that we should do it – but perhaps some of what we do today on the railway, does not come true until 2021. By definition, we have not reached the climate agreement, but that is good climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e611	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e614	I want to repeat the question that I asked instead. I'm not interested in knowing what the Left and Christian People's Party has got the government to do, but I'm interested in knowing what the government itself or the government as a college has been able to do, because I think it seems obvious that the Council of State does not have a say in the government in the climate field. Can the Government Council Sundtoft provide an example of one significant change in the car and fuel charges implemented in the government college, which she has helped push through to achieve the objective of a zero-emission car fleet by 2020, which is the period for which the climate agreement applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e621	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås knows exactly how one sits and works in a government, where all departments come with their input, and where then there was a collective decision by the government. But it's this government that does more to meet the climate agreement, to achieve our climate goals by 2020, where we've been honest about how we are at this time. It's this government that's been raising ambitions until 2030, and it's this government that's working everything it can internationally to get a strong and clear agreement in Paris, which sets the direction for where we're going. It is this government that is working towards a low-carbon society in 2050. It is possible that it is completely different from what the previous government did, and how it worked, but we work as a college.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e628	To get time for the last main question, only two follow-up questions will be allowed – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e631	The oil industry is the sector in this country that emits the most greenhouse gases. The oil industry has almost doubled its emissions since 1990. Can the Minister for Climate and Environment mention a victory that the College of Government has held and that significantly cuts emissions in the sector that emits the most – the oil sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e637	It is quite right that much is emitted from the oil and gas sector in Norway. The oil and gas sector also has the highest CO2 tax and is part of the European ETS. What is taken through the CO2 tax and the allowances system makes the industry itself very interested in reducing its emissions, just to reduce costs. What Statoil is now working on, reducing its emissions – they set their own target by 2020 – they were in the early stages. This shows that the policy is working. By setting a price for emissions, the industry does this itself. That's how we want to work, that's how we want to use the market – using the tax and tax system to make the industry itself reduce emissions. We don't sit and reduce this for the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e650	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e653	Climate summits and the outcome of an international agreement are the sum of what all countries contribute, and there is no doubt that there has been a poor Norwegian charge: the Minister of Finance will provide a government budget that will increase emissions. The Minister for Climate Change proposes a major cut in international climate contributions, and yesterday the Prime Minister went out and almost canceled the climate agreement. What has been the climate effort the Council of State boasts of is things she herself has lost internally, first in the government – and then the Right and Advance Party have lost against the Left and Christian People's Party here in the Stortinget. It's not much to brag about for a climate minister. So she does a big cut in international climate aid – she points to a special situation. We have to remember that the first thing this government did was to propose 400 million. kr i cut in the rainforest bet. The climate minister should be very aware that of all the acute situations in the world, the climate crisis is perhaps the most acute. My question to the Council of State is whether she will be satisfied with an outcome in Paris where several countries do like her – that there will be less money left for international climate contribution after the Paris agreement has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e662	I believe that the most important thing we will agree on in Paris is an agreement on a long-term goal that sets the direction, so that no one should be in doubt – when we leave Paris – that we should transform the world into a climate-neutral world. Then we need good political decisions. We need cooperation with business, with investors. We also need to get civil society and each one of us to realize that we need to change the way we live. We are very clear that we should cooperate with other countries so that they can reduce their emissions. That's why we're the world's leading international climate finance player. We will be further, despite the emissions. The fact that we're long-term, that we're working concretely with other countries, that's what's going on in Brazil, so that the Secretary-General of the United Nations draws it out as one of the best climate examples in the world has ever seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e669	The size goes on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e672	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. All batches at Stortinget, with the exception of SV and MDG, have merged on 18 concrete measures for regulatory tightening in order to ensure border control and with those entering Norway in the Great Asylum and Refugee Flows Norway. This has been well received by the public and seen as political Norway taking responsibility for a difficult time. That's what we in the Workers' Party are set to do in the continuation. At the same time, we are critical that the government has not made adjustments to the asylum flow in the past. In very many areas, and not least in the handling of asylum seekers coming to Norway, we have experienced a government as a hesitant, which does not implement at the necessary pace and which does not appear to be particularly effective in dealing with the challenge posed by the number of asylum seekers in recent months. Why has the government not established UDI ambulatory teams, which would lead to a faster procedure? Why has the government not implemented the transfer of legal capacity from other departments to UDI? Why has the government not done well enough to strengthen the Foreign Office of the Police, nor has it strengthened the work on the identity clearance and security assessments of asylum seekers coming in sufficient? The government could and should have taken a clearer grip on many of these issues, and at a much earlier time. It is a government's responsibility to act, especially when the situation is difficult and the challenges are great. My question is, why didn't the Council of State start this once the extraordinary situation became known, why did he wait so long? Or does the Council of State really think that he had to wait for the decision of the Storting to implement the points I have now mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e683	I am very pleased with that question, and I am even more pleased that the Workers' Party has now turned around in its attitude from in ours. There is no doubt that the attitude of the Labour Party and the majority of the population in the spring and, in fact, up to the end of October has contributed to the fact that the signals have been that Norway has been a country with relatively open arms. The government has worked hard to correct and balance the impression by implementing a number of restrictive and intensive measures along the way, and unfortunately we have not received much drag help from the Workers' Party in that context. On the other hand, I am very pleased that we are getting that Draid Aid from the Workers' Party now, and I hope it is right as Mr. Lauvås says, that the Workers' Party will now hold a tough course and not wave in the question of whether it is important to gain control of this asylum flow or not. The assessment of the absence of en route measures is completely incorrect. It's a reality I don't know at all, and no one else who's actually working on these issues, recognizes. We have implemented a number of measures to deal with what has been the growth of time in asylum arrivals in Norway. It has meant that we have not been close to having a processing capacity system that could handle it. We now, in just over a month, got more people to Norway than we expected to get for the whole year. Obviously, it puts an entire system under pressure. That is why, in record time, in less than three weeks, we have set up our own reception centre in the Council, a whole new way of dealing effectively with asylum applications – an important contribution for us to be able to handle this at all. UDI has worked hard to find emergency shelters to ensure that we have food and shelter when people get here. We have ensured that we have received the health study that is going to take place. There's been a tremendous effort to make sure we're able to handle this. Unfortunately, neither the Labour Party nor anyone else could prepare in advance for the situation we have experienced in Norway, but fortunately we now see a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e690	Now it is such that the Workers' Party has not turned into anything at all. The Workers' Party has held up a strict and fair asylum policy for a long time. What is the situation is that the Progress Party has turned around. But we can see that positively, because now they finally realize that they are part of reality and have to take responsibility for the tasks that the country is facing. There are several examples that the Minister of Justice has not been as quick as one could expect, and he is still saying away. It is also quite clear that the government has not been able to use the powers of a government. The question then is: can the Minister of Justice now confirm to the Grand Government whether he believes he has the powers to see a more effective government, which will address the challenges we know will come, both at the border and with settlement and integration in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e697	I'm not so happy about this question, but I'm more amazed at it. I think it's interesting, because those who have followed this debate over time have obviously seen a positive change in the attitude of the Workers' Party in my opinion – from being a rather restrictive party to becoming a very liberal party and now again being on the restrictive line. I think that's positive. It may be that someone has realized that the Progress Party has turned around, but I have now experienced that the Progress Party has always been on the restrictive line. So, of course, the government is working to get a balance. We have an asylum agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we have been concerned that we should implement both tightening and some liberalizing measures in the areas in which we have had an agreement with those parties. It is important for us to follow up, but that there has been some spin-off in the case of the Progress Party, I think there are few who can agree. In terms of speed, I think we should stress that the job done both in the department and out in all sectors has been formidable. It's made a fantastic effort, and instead of complaining and saying that one should be even faster, which would be practically impossible, one should actually be proud of the efforts that have been made. In the case of powers, we have a review of all the powers now, and we will return to Stortinget if we believe there is a need for further powers. [[The President clubs.]] But the representative does not provide a single example that we have not taken advantage of the space for action we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e708	The President will remember the time of speech. We get time for a follow-up question – from the representative Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e711	I just want to remind the Minister of Justice that this serious matter is not about how the Workers' Party has behaved or what signals the Workers' Party has given. This is about a Minister of Justice who either has or has no power to act, about a Minister of Justice who is good at talking, but perhaps less good at acting. In fact, the government with the Minister of Justice has had room for action to take action, and the fact is that they have not used that space of action. Security is crucial. Now we see that there are at least 1,500 people who have disappeared from asylum. The Minister of Justice has so far not used the powers he actually has to build capacity. The majority decided on an emergency basis to imprison asylum seekers last week. We were pleased, and we were also pleased with the evaluation that we had put in there, and also that the law is temporary. But it would be strange if we don't have places when it's urgent to adopt a new law, so when does new capacity open up for imprisonment, especially in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e719	I totally disagree that this debate is not about signals from the Labour Party. It's about signals from the Stortinget, it's about signals from all over Europe. Because we see very clearly that signals from decision-makers have an enormous impact on the flow of refugees and asylum flows. I hope that the representative Henriksen has brought with him. If we do not risk the Workers' Party re-entering with signals that help steer the asylum flow towards Norway. I think we have to have that with us. We must be reflected in that discussion and in what signals are to be sent out. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is part of the big, broad agreement that the Stortinget has now come to, and which I believe provides a very good basis for us to get this situation better under control. I also record that Henriksen makes a number of claims that the powers have not been exercised. What powers are not used? We've used the space we have. We have submitted an additional number to the state budget to manage this. We've given the money we can under the authority. We've reorganized and challenged the organization to handle this. So the reality picture Henriksen comes with is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e726	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e738	There will be a number of changes in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this context. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Transport, is moved and answered, at the request of the Minister for Transport, in response to question 6. Question 4, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, the question is moved and answered to question 6, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Questions 7 and 8 from the representative Kari Henriksen and the representative Lene Vågslid to the Minister for Justice and Security, respectively, were moved and answered, at the request of the Minister for Justice and Defence, before Question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e751	So let's start with question seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e758	President, I don't get my question on the salap – then I get to borrow the script from the Minister of Justice, and then he'll get it back! The question is: ‘The robber radio operates radio broadcasts made by people like zones, on the topic in question, from prison and outside. The transmissions are available to them as sons in Oslo prison and to few other prisons in the eastern part of the country. There is no national transmission surface. Voluntary organisations and public agencies use the channel to disseminate useful information. The radio channel won this year Prix Radio 2015 for local broadcasting surface. What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure equal access to these broadcasts for all as zones in prison?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e772	It would have been tempting to say that the representative Henriksen could only continue on the script, so she would get the answer! I am very excited about the Robbery House, which operates the Robbery Radio, and they got 589 000 kroner in support over the hood. 430 item 70, a grant scheme for voluntary activities in the field of criminal law. It has been delegated to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare to allocate funds to non-governmental organisations. The robber house must therefore seek financial support from the Directorate, including any extension of its activities. I very much agree with the representative Henriksen that the Robber Radio is a good move. However, there are many good measures for which funds are sought above the budget chapter and line. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has informed that measures were applied for for about this year. 39 million. kr, and what was for distribution, was $12 million. kr. That means that you have to have a strict prioritization on the part of the directorate, but the robber radio has been funded. In the draft budget for 2016, it is approx. 11 million. kr which is allocated to the breakdown by application. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is delegated to continue examining these applications and will publish the new allocation pot after the Stortinget has adopted what the Stortinget wants to adopt on this point, and the Robberhuset may also apply for funds. In view of the fact that this has been delegated to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, I think it would be wrong for me to give some leadership that the Robbery House should be given priority in front of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e783	Thanks for the answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is expressing a positive attitude towards the Robber Radio and the Robber House, which is a volunteer organisation that is doing a good job for the prisoners. It is true, as the Minister of Justice says, that there are appropriations that determine both the nature and the nature of the actions, and we record that, after this government joined, subsidies to non-governmental organisations have been reduced. These include: A result of this is that many organisations are concerned, because they believe that the allocations they have received cover the growth in wages and prices – not to mention them as zones in the Netherlands, which do not have this offer at all. But back to the Robber Radio and the action being taken: they want schemes similar to those they have in the United Kingdom, with national coverage. Does the Minister of Justice support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e792	Based on the system we have, where these are funds allocated on application, it is difficult to say within that system that this is what should result. But I believe the Rooster Radio is a very creative and constructive action, which was launched in 2013, and which, as I understand, has very happy listeners. It's a way of working out that I have a lot of sense for. It's incredibly important that you have things to do in prison as a feeling yields benefits, and that's useful, and that also gives learning experience in a whole new way. I'm not going to draw my own personal experiences about radio business, but I've been an avid actor on the local radio in Larvik, in my youth, and that gives me an incredible amount of learning and power. There is also something that I think is good that a sheep through e.g. measures such as the Robber Radio. But the fact that it is going to be a national offer, I think it is a little too early to establish and decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e799	I support what the Minister of Justice says, and the assessments he has of the effects that the Rooster Radio has on both prisoners and employees, as well as on non-governmental organisations and others who use this radio station to send out important information. But in addition, I think this radio station has an important function related to freedom of expression, because this way of giving prisoners the opportunity to get a voice in public space is an important contribution to freedom of expression. Therefore, I believe that the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for the good functioning of freedom of expression in Norway, should also consider whether this is a measure that is so good that it should become part of the ordinary work in prisons, among others. the principle of subsidiarity, and that the media also become part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e804	I don't reject that kind of thinking. I think this is an exciting measure. It has many advantages, and it creates creativity and gives creative power and can also affect freedom of expression. At the same time, it's important, the way the system is today, that I don't put any leads on the future applications from the Robber Radio. But I think this is one of many exciting actions that take place in criminal custody, and the fact that it's driven by the inmates, and that they kind of run an activity to develop themselves, too, I think it's a useful contribution. I think I can see that this is an exciting project, and after two years of operation, we take with us the results that this project has given. And then we'll see what the future will bring in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e813	Then we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e820	My question is: ‘Despite the fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party promised last year, in the form of a note, not to cut the funds of the Victim Compensation Office, the Minister of Justice and Defence still proposes a cut of 10 million. kr for 2016. If the proposal is adopted, aid for victims of violence will be weakened, and the country’s 14 advisory offices are at risk of closure. How can the Council of State defend the cutting of the Victim Compensation Office, while at the same time representing a party that says they are working to strengthen victim care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e829	As indicated by Prop. 1 S for 2011-2012 from the Workers' Party, SV and Centre Party Government, the Government then proposed that the Office for the Compensation of Victims should be given an additional grant to deal with cases following the terrorist act on 22 July and to dismantle the balances. In the intervening years, it has been stressed that the allocation of 25 million has been committed. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. The retention of untreated cases and the length of proceedings is significantly reduced today compared to the case in 2012, and reference is made to Prop. 1 S for 2014–2015, where, inter alia: is: ‘The figures from the Victim Compensation Office show that the opening of new cases relating to the 22nd of July terrorism fell significantly in the second half of 2013. In the years 2012-2014, the Office for the Compensation of Victims has received a temporary strengthening of its allocation in order to build up the balances and process applications following the terrorist attacks on 22 July 2011. ‘... As a result of the additional appropriations granted in 2012, a new procedure was introduced by the Office for the Compensation of Victims. It is assumed that the procedural system also contributes to the efficiency of the flow in the procedure. The additional appropriations in 2012 were devoted to examining applications for compensation for victims of violence. It is therefore necessary to reduce the additional appropriations in the corresponding area. When we take these assumptions into account, the provision of advice to the CCCs will not be significantly reduced. I will, of course, follow closely the development of the residual stock and the processing time, and the government is working on different alternatives to enhanced victim care. I want to underline that. We are now going through the victim care unit together to ensure that we will get a more equal and better offer across the country. There is an important role for the CCCs. Then it is also necessary to remind the Storting that the premise of the previous government was that this was a temporary grant, and that is what the government has been dealing with. So that doesn't mean we won't follow this closely and consider the need for further appropriations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e841	We know very well that these were temporary promises, it's not about that. If the Minister of Justice sees in the comments of the Judicial Committee last year, the Government Party, together with the Christian People's Party, the Budgetary Comrade and the Contracting Parties, write that cut of 10 million. kr for 2016 was to be screened. There was one entry in the setting because one was busy giving the victim compensation office a caretaker. Had I been KrFs – I am not – I believe that I had been reasonably provoked that such a comment and such an agreement is not worth more than the paper it is written on. What I'm wondering about is, what concrete input has the Minister of Justice got, which means that the Agency for the Compensation of Victims does not need the funds, the 10 million, for 2016? In any case, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been involved. And does the Council of State think that they don't need funds, and that the pastorality, which they were so busy about last year, isn't important this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e850	The predictability is quite good, because it has never been indicated by the Ministry that this temporary allocation should be anything but temporary. So, of course, the situation is not such that the office does not need money, everyone needs resources and money to do a right and good job, but they have been very aware that this is a temporary allocation. The size is governed by budgetary decisions, and the Stortinge may review the decision of the government. I think it's important from the government to stand by that when you're clear that something is a temporary allocation, that's actually what it is, and then you can't assume that that allocation should continue. Neither is it that the Workers' Party's alternative budget compensates for all of this. They're proposing 10 million. kr to operational funds, but they are missing 50 million. kr for compensation payments, if one assumes that they will continue to deal with cases for 10 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e857	The Justice Committee at the Stortinget, here at this house, said last year that the 10 million. kr for 2016 would be screened. It said the government party Right and the government party Progress Party, together with its contracting party Christian People's Party. Then I find that it is worth nothing but the paper it is written on. Today is the international day against violence against women. Thousands in Norway and millions on a world-wide basis are being subjected to the terror of being subjected to power in close relations. Does the Council of State think it right that a vulnerable group, such as those in need of advice and compensation for victims of violence, should be offered a worse offer? And isn't this a paradox to Åse Michaelsen's earlier statement that no elector should suffer if the Progress Party is in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e864	There I believe there is an error in the reasoning. Let me first say that we have noticed the comment from Stortinget. The government has proposed something else for Stortinget, and it is then the Stortinget who takes a decision on how to be. It is a relatively normal procedure. In the case of poorer offers for victims of violence, the representative Awake! may not have got so much of what has happened in the last two years. We have implemented a number of measures to improve the situation of victims of violence. There are now seven police district violence coordinators, SARA has been implemented in all police districts, there have been a number of authorities in the police, there has been a completely different priority – both from the National Attorney General, from the Police Directorate, from the Minister of Justice and Security – in this particular area in relation to what has happened in the past. We are now implementing a close police reform on which the Workers' Party is involved, and on which I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is involved, which will help to further strengthen that competence. We have secured a new interrogation model for children and other vulnerable persons. So standing here saying that the offer to violent women and others is worse, it's directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e873	Then we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e880	«Previous National Archives Ivar Fonnes expresses to the newspaper The Court of Labour 10 November concerns about the government's amended plans for the Norwegian health archive which had been proposed for Tynset. It was hoped that the model would be cheaper, and the former national archivist would also support the concerns raised regarding the safety of patient information in the proposed model. Is the Council of State certain that safety is good enough in the government's proposed model and that this will be a cheaper solution?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e887	The representative of Storberget addresses two important issues. One concerns the costs of putting in place Norwegian health records, and the other concerns safety requirements for the processing of patient data. The Stoltenberg government proposed in its last draft budget to start building an archive building on Tynset with a cost-framework of 808 million. kr. State building projects with a cost framework of more than 750 million. kr must be subject to specific quality assurance. Thus, the Stoltenberg government chose to disregard the legislation by proposing to grant already before such quality assurance existed. The government of Solberg, on the other hand, offered to comply with the legislation in force, i.e. that the quality assurance would be available before Stortinget was submitted with a proposal for a start-up grant. Therefore, in the Appendix to the budget proposal for the autumn of 2013, this allocation proposal was deleted. The quality assurance mission was given to Holte Consulting AS on 11 December 2013. The external quality assurance report identified a number of disproportionately costly solutions and considered an alternative forproject to be the most cost-effective. Since the report was available in March 2014, the Ministry has carried out a thorough process of State Building with a view to changing the project in order to reduce costs. Some adjustments may be made, but the additional assessments received by the Ministry from State Building indicate that it is not possible to realise a significantly more reasonable facility on Tynset, if it also includes warehouses for the permanent storage of paper archives. In view of the high cost, the government has found that an alternative model, now implemented by the Ministry, needs to be examined. This is done to bring costs down significantly. State buildings have carried out preliminary assessments of magazines in the mountain of Rana in relation to the National Library. This is now being analysed more thoroughly by State Building. The Ministry has also examined whether it is possible to extend the capacity of the State Archives in Trondheim, which has its warehouses in Dora. On this basis, the Stortinget will be asked to take a final decision on its implementation. The health archive includes material with specific access limitation and storage requirements; this applies both to digital documents and to paper-based documents. Of course, all the safety requirements imposed by the Health Register Act and the Archive Act must be complied with regardless of solution. Digitisation of archival documents on a large scale requires extensive resource efforts, in particular in the form of labour. It is this function that will be able to provide Thinset with a significant number of new jobs. Maintaining paper archives is also resource-intensive, but primarily in the form of investments in warehouses, rentals and building operations. This function, on the other hand, will represent little new jobs. Our goal is to spend the greatest possible amount of resources on digitisation and to ensure that we get into a cost-effective project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e913	I think it is very sad that the government has also left its position that you would realize archive building on Tynset. It was in October 2014, last year that the government and the Minister of Culture sent out a press release entitled ‘Government will realize the archive building on Tynset’. It was also before the government had done its quality studies. There are many kinds of elements in such a decision, and when you send out such a press release, where it says that this should be on Tynset, the “should embrace a common repository for the entire Archives and beyond Norsk health archives for older archive materials”, not only the Thinset community, but the entire Inland and many people expect the government to stand by the decision that you say you have taken. I don't see it as anything but actually leading the people behind the light when you said last year that you wanted to build this archive, so now in the budget to go back on it. What's the reason why you've actually turned around?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e922	I want to take a lot away from the fact that we've left to realize an archive on Tynset, when we've said that we want to look at an alternative model, where digitization is added to Tynset, but that we're looking at other alternatives in the paper archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e927	It is a fact that last year the government and the Minister of Culture sent out a press release stating that ‘the government will realize the archive building on Tynset’. I can't easily read it any other way than that you would realize the archive building on Tynset. But I'll leave it. I hope you get on the track quickly with the models you're now working on. What kind of time perspective does the Council of State have for this? That's the one question. The second is that the instructions on construction and rental in the State sector state-owned premises ‘are not a well-functioning market for which construction is classified as a function and are generally to be carried out as a state-owned construction project’, i.e. special constructions which cannot be in a regular rental market. Will the Council of State follow this instructions when it comes to finding suitable archival buildings for this material?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e934	With regard to the time perspective, we will work as quickly as possible to get the information needed to decide on the alternative model. Not least, we'll look at the costs and the possibilities of finding a concrete solution. As I said, we have taken the necessary steps to look at it. I just want to remind you that we are firmly committed to the realization of the Archives, also on Tynset. We are committed to finding a good and cost-effective solution to solve the Archiving Agency's needs, and we are therefore investigating alternative models. It's important for me to stress that we haven't gone away from realizing this. But this project did not even take the previous government time to guarantee the cost. We have done so, and we have – as I said – been given very clear signals in the external quality assurance report, where a number of disproportionately expensive solutions have been identified. That's why we've now chosen to look at alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e945	‘In a recent information letter from the Swedish Archives’ management to the employees, conversions are proposed in the offer. Today, the Swedish Archives are divided between the central Swedish Archives and eight regional government archives, as well as the Sami archives in Kautokeino. This is proposed to be merged into an organisational unit managed by Oslo. Many fear that regional anchoring is getting worse. Can the Council of State inform about the process and the political anchoring of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e952	In consultation with the Ministry of Culture, the Swedish Archives Agency launched the strategy project Arkivverket 2020 in January this year. In the budget application for 2016, which was sent to the Ministry of Culture on 1 March, the Swedish Archives briefed on the project and requested funding for it. As the representative knows, in the 2016 draft budget, the government has proposed a budget of 2 million. kr to the conversion process at Arkivverket. There have been negotiations on a new organisational structure between the Riksarchiver and the public service organisations in the Swedish Archives, in accordance with the State co-determination agreement. The National Archivist states that an overall solution has not been reached so far. I would like to stress very strongly that the government will of course assess this matter thoroughly and also come back to Stortinget. Until then, the current organisation will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e963	The National Archivist's proposal for restructuring implies, as I said, that one should have a common organisational unit and that the state archives should be closed down as own institutions. In the archival communications and in the archival laws, the Stortinget has its intention and will to keep the state archives in the region up and that the state archives play a central role in the establishment and operation of new integrated solutions. The proposed reorganisation follows the National Archives in line with the archive message and within the law. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State agree with the Riksarchiver that the proposed structural change is in line with the archival message and the archival promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e970	Firstly, there is no proposal because the negotiations have collapsed. If the Swedish archivist comes back to the department with proposals that would indicate that there is a need to amend the archive law, which I have understood has been meant in this case, it is quite obvious, as I said in my previous answer, and which I have expressed in response to a written question from, among other things. The representative of Trettebergstien, that this is a matter that the government will carefully assess, and of course we will come back to Stortinget with such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e975	I thought that when the National Archivist started a restructuring and it was anchored in the Ministry of Culture, the Council of State should make sure that what had been proposed was actually in line with the laws and regulations that are, so I am a little surprised by that answer. I have an additional question beyond that. There is already a strong centralization, I have been informed, in the Swedish Archives Agency. When you look at the new job vacancies that are coming, you will find the key choices – of the 30 that have been announced so far this year, 8 come in the regions and 21 in Oslo. Four new directorial positions have been announced, which are linked to the new restructuring. I would like to ask the Council of State if it is aware of the centralization that is taking place, and whether it is in line with what the Stortinget is committed to strengthening the regions, as one stated, among other things. in the archive message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e982	The council reads what's in the papers, and I also get ideas that come from different people who have views on this matter, so I've absolutely got a lot of the views that are there. As I said in my reply, the department has been briefed on the matter, but it is not that the department has dealt with the details of this matter. As I said, the government will, of course, decide on it when there is a final proposal, and we will, of course, come to Stortinget with it, if it turns out that there is a need to amend the archive law too – if a proposal is not in line with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e989	Then we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e996	The question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: ‘Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have increased in the last 25 years. Norway has compensated for this with uncertain climate allowances. Norway now pursues a target of ‘climate neutrality’, previously referred to as ‘net zero’, which is based on several measures outside Norway’s borders. Does this mean that the purchase of allowances will continue to be the method of meeting our obligations under the UNFCCC in the future?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1005	The government is pursuing an offensive climate policy in which Norway’s national emissions are to be reduced by 2030. We focus on five areas of action: reduced emissions in transport development of low-carbon technologies in industry and clean production technologies CO2 management strengthen Norway's role as supplier of renewable energy environmentally friendly shipping However, we can have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We are also working on climate action internationally. Two of the main measures are the climate and forest project and the country’s climate quota purchases. Quota purchases are an important basis for the ambitious commitments undertaken by Norway under the Kyoto Protocol from 2013 to 2020. All the parties in this hall have joined this. They have also pointed out unanimously that flexible implementation mechanisms can enable Norway to take on greater commitments and contribute to greater global reductions. Norway has set up a global objective of climate neutrality or net zero emissions by 2050. It is a progressive proposal. The international environmental movement has also spoken hotly for a long-term goal. In March, the Stortinget addressed the notification of the new emissions obligation. The government is working for joint fulfilment with the EU, with a climate target of at least 40 pst. in 2030. If we succeed in this, there will be no need for quota purchases in developing countries after 2020. However, if it becomes appropriate to raise ambitions beyond 40 p.m., it may be opened for the purchase of an allowance. I think the representative should be aware that his sister party in Sweden wants to use quotas if they are to increase their ambitions beyond the EU target. The Environment Party in Sweden therefore believes that these quotas have an impact on the climate. I understand that the representative Hansson has an ambivalent relationship with climate quotas. We must not forget that the CDM, the CDM, is subject to very thorough approval and control procedures in the United Nations system. A report from an expert group shows that CDM contributes to emissions reduction, technology transfer and poverty reduction. But perhaps most importantly, the quota system has contributed to greening in these countries. It provides a basis for optimism when we now enter into negotiations where all countries, including developing countries, need to increase their ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1039	The Council of State is probably alone in believing that CDM quotas are a good and effective contribution to a national cut strategy. The Prime Minister has stated that CDM quotas are climate measures for cheap sales. In the case of Sweden, the Council of State is probably aware that the difference between Sweden and Norway is that Sweden has cut beyond 25 pst. of their national emissions. Norway has not cut anything. Therefore, alongside the quota issue, it is still interesting what Norway is going to release. Can the State Council provide a figure for how much CO2 and other greenhouse gases Norway will emit in 2020 and 2030? Today, as we know, we're releasing 53 million tons. How much are we going to cut, how much are we going to get out here in 2020 and 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1049	We work every day to achieve the climate agreement, which has set its goal of reducing by 30 pst, of which two thirds domestic, until 2020. When we took over, the gap was 8 million tons. At the last calculation, we were at 6.5 million tons. We deliver climate policies in the day that reduce that gap, but about some of what we do in terms of, for example. railway investment, which is reflected in reduced emissions in 2019 or 2021, we do not know today. But we're working to achieve the 2020 climate agreement goal. In 2030, we've launched a target of 40 pst. reduction, together with the EU. First, the EU must allocate its obligations to the non-quota sector, and Norway must negotiate with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1058	Does the Council agree that there is a problem that no government and no Environment Council in Norway would ever have committed themselves to saying how many tonnes of CO2 Norway will release in 2020 and 2030? And does the Council see any correlation between the fact and the fact that Norway has not actually cut its emissions, either nationally or in the major sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1066	I think that's exactly why it's important that the government in the context of the 2030s, where we're going to reduce by 40 pst, has been clearer on sketching in which five areas we're going to reduce, so that we can better understand what we need to do in Norway to reduce our emissions. Then I think it was also useful that we asked to get the gap report from the Environment Directorate, so that we got a better overview of the number of tons we were away from the goal of the climate agreement. The gap was then 8 million tons. At the last estimate, it was 6.5 million tonnes. Then we know that the last projections, as mentioned in the 2016 National Budget, were based on the 2013 Perspective Communication and policies even revised national budgets for 2014. But we have to make this easier to figure out what to do together, including in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1079	‘There has recently been a great deal of unrest around Telenor and VimpelCom related to the suspicion of corruption in relation to the acquisition of telecommunications licences in Uzbekistan. The Minister of Industry has expressed his distrust of the Heads of Government of Telenor, who later withdrew. There are various forms of investigation and investigation in progress. What can the Council of State, as major shareholders in Telenor, do to help clarify the facts and contribute to the best possible transparency on the part of Telenor?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1086	The VimpelCom case is a very serious matter, and it has also been underlined by the events of the past weeks. I have since I was familiar with the matter, called on Telenor to show the greatest possible openness, and I have also tried, to the best of my ability, to clarify the matter to Stortinget, among others. in consultation of the Control and Constitutional Committee and in several letters to the same Committee. At the same time, I have to deal with the framework of ownership adopted by the Storting. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries cannot act as an investigator or impose information that is not provided to us when we request it. Finally, we have to rely on the information that companies give us. In this case, it has been shown that we have not been properly informed and even misinformed, and on the basis of that, I concluded that I no longer had confidence in the chairman of the board. As the representative Pollestad refers to, there are now reviews and investigations going on in the case, and we expect this to clarify the facts, and I also look forward to getting all the facts on the table. It is also the case that I am invited to a new hearing in the Control and Constitutional Committee on this matter. It is an invitation I of course accept, and I also look forward to giving a detailed explanation of the department's ownership in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1097	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I am pleased and have not been in doubt that the Council of State has seen the seriousness of this matter, but I also believe that this sets limits on the understanding of the principles of ownership on which the Storting has based. They shall not be challenged; they shall be used. It is a matter of whether a passive person should wait for information or how active he should be in requesting information. The Communication of Ownership states that transparency and publicity are an effective tool in the fight against corruption, and my follow-up question is: What does the Ministry do to Telenor – and other companies – to ensure that every day one complies with the principle of transparency and publicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1104	I fully agree that ownership principles should be respected. We have a steady and constant dialogue with all our companies throughout the year in which we address many issues related to social responsibility, related to what our ownership is like, and where we gather information. So it's not like we're sitting there reading in the paper what's going on. We're going to be informed, and we're trying to keep ourselves informed on current issues and issues related to corporate social responsibility. It's a day-to-day task for the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1111	Both Telenor and other companies in which the state is owned, either alone or together with others, operate in countries where the chances of corruption are significantly greater than those to which we are accustomed from domestic regions. And then I try to challenge the Council of State to say, is there any other matter in Telenor or in other companies, operations or businesses in countries that one is particularly concerned about, and which one of the departments now follows particularly closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1116	We have been continuously informed about other conditions in other countries that have been demanding. We know that this has been the case, among other things. in Thailand. But we also have other examples of demanding relationships. I'm concerned that companies that go into high-risk countries do extra thorough work before entering, and in the case of Telenor, they have well expressed themselves to the extent that they have let go into, and even withdrew from, countries where it has been too difficult to operate. The companies have a great responsibility for this. We follow the companies, and we'll talk about this in the dialogue with the companies, both at home and I will also say out. I have met Telenor in other countries as well, among others. in Asia, where I know that conditions are demanding. But we expect companies to take a big responsibility here. We have zero tolerance for corruption, whether it happens at home or away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1125	Then we should have initially gone to question 1, but it looks like we're missing the Council of State. And in the last question, no. Four, we have the council here, but we don't have the questioner. So let's take a little break. – Then it looks like we are ready to go to Question 1, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The President will ask the Councils to be present in the Chamber when questions are to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1134	‘In 2012, Minister for Transport Kleppa launched KVU ArnaVoss for E16/VossabanenBergensbanen. On 1 April 2014, the Road Director and the Railway Director presented KVU with a recommendation on concept selection 5. In May 2015, as we know, there were two major races in the Waksdal, and November 8th this year, it was demonstrated for safe roads and tracks. The Ministry of Transport then stated that they could not determine the concept choice. The answer is unorthodox. Can the Council of State inform the Government of when the choice of concept options is reached?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1141	Thank you for your flexibility, and thank you for your question. The answer is very simple. That's the same answer we've given to the media, which has been published in many places, and which was published in connection with the demonstration: there's an answer before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1148	Thank you. In Question Time on 20 May this year, I asked almost the same question. Then the State Council said that the Railway Agency has seen work going on, that they expect it to take a few more months, and that it meant ‘that they will probably come back to us at some point in the summer, so that we can then get additional information and go on to find out how we can take good action that brings long-term benefits and that is cost-effective’. Now it's 1.5 years since the ministry got the report, and in May the Council of State would have a few more months. Is it the railway station that you are waiting for, or is it that the government has to decide which solutions you want to raise for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1158	We said in May that we were waiting for the railway company to make some further investigations, because in this case the trade unions have made one clear recommendation, and the quality assurance company has made a sharp opposite recommendation. It's a relatively rare thing compared to most other concept selection investigations. We have received the information that the Railway Agency was supposed to investigate, and we are still discussing some of the elements in it, but now it is largely done on the investigation page. Now it's the political side that applies. That's why I say that we aim to have this treated before Christmas. However, when the theme is taken up, I still owe it to make the Storting aware that when the previous government did its work on today's national transport plan, it was not the E16 that the previous government was the longest in line – it was the E39. On 29 August 2013 – just before the last major elections – the Council of State, Marit Arnstad, was at Voss and got to look at this, and she said that the E39 was clearly at the forefront. Now, all of a sudden, the E16 gives the impression that it's the most important thing. Then it's nice to know about today's opposition has changed its mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1167	It's probably also related to how Hordaland county has prioritised, to say it like this. But enough about it. I have one last question, and that's what caused the demonstration that was November 8th, because people are insecure. The background was that TV 2 had a report about the large stone block that hung up on the lines, which weighed 3000 tonnes, and which was that the company that ran with mountain protection could not carry out the mountain protection work below. At the same time, both train traffic and car traffic were normal. It's a paradox, and one understands that people are being saved. Does the Council have any information on how to handle exactly the stone block that is now known, and that there is a danger of slipping out and creating a large race, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1176	First of all, I'm concerned about the road section, and I'm concerned about the Vosebane. I've been in those places seven times since I became the Council of State. I have driven trains, Bergensbanen and Vossebanen, drove a truck and drove a passenger car on the route. We have met all the rapporteurs, and we have spoken to people who live there. When one then, after having run for eight years and barely used one penny on the way, suddenly now is worried about a block that one's own government knew about, and that government's only response to it was to set up a monitoring mechanism, it's a little strange to present it as that this is news. This is actually something that the previous government, with Vegvesen, handled already in 2012. Then you set up a warning system, and it's a little strange that the warning system that you thought was good enough when you crashed yourself, suddenly now has become a threat. I just want to remind you that today's government spends a lot more money on racial protection on this route. We have accelerated the race protection project that should not have been started until next year. It's already being implemented. The track is one of the routes that gets a lot of money in the package of measures, for upgrading, among other things. racial protection, but also for maintenance and renewal. So this distance gets more money for maintenance, renewal and race protection than ever before. At the same time, it is important to put in place a new trajectory, so that you avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1187	Then we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1194	This question, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1197	‘In the newly submitted red list, the myrhauk goes from vulnerable to highly threatened. On 23 October, the Council of State granted a concession to increased regulation of Lake Markbulia, the construction of a new Einunna power plant and a new power line from Einunna power plant. Both the NVE and Folldal municipalities had opposed the development. In the investigations and the hearings on the case, it appears that the area is a fenced area for myrhauk. Why has the Council of State not ensured that the habitat of the anthawk is protected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1204	To answer this question, it is probably right for me to start by giving a brief background for dealing with the concession case. The King of State Council has granted permission limited to a seven-metre increase in the regulatory height of a pre-existing entry warehouse in Markbulia and a new Einunna power plant to replace the old power plant built in 1955. The concession request also sought to increase the regulatory height of Markbulia by both nine and ten metres. The case has received a comprehensive and very thorough treatment under watercourse legislation based on an application with impact assessments, the suspension from NVE, with wide consultations, and inspection. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, together with the department concerned, has generally also assessed the matter in the light of the principles of the Nature Diversity Act, including the provision on requirements for the knowledge base and the precautionary principle. There are major differences in the impact on the environment of the two highest and lowest regulatory options to which we have granted a concession, not least for the areas around the Markbuli magazine. In this context, the negative impact on animal and plant life on the different regulatory options has been an important issue in the handling of the matter in the ministry. It is apparent from the NVE’s submission that, following the submission of the application, the Nature Conservation Association required an additional investigation for birds, including: for the anthill. Following the assessment by the NVE, the impact assessment for birds satisfied the requirements of the investigation programme. The NVE considered that an additional investigation would not provide material new decision-making information. It is also apparent from the opinion of the NVE that the expert in the impact assessment for birds was provided with the information of the Nature Conservation Association. The manager continued to maintain his conclusion that the expansion would have no more than a slight negative impact on the anthill. According to the investigator, there was no concrete evidence of anthauk in the scope of the investigation for some of the requested regulations. The last documented discovery of hedgehogs in this area was made in 1988. I notice that the Swedish Nature Conservation Association says that this was probably also the case in 1990 and 1991, but that no such findings were documented at the time. This is in any case a finding that is 25 years old. I am convinced that the decision has been made on a sound knowledge basis, and I cannot see that the assessment of the effects of the expansion on myrhauk should have been different because of the changed status of the myrhauk in the updated Red List, which was otherwise presented after the concession was granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1215	I thank you for your answer. I think it is important to stress one thing when the Council of State draws up the NVE recommendations here, that the NVE went against the development of its recommendation. When a species changes its status from being vulnerable to severe threat, which is now the second last stop before a species is considered extinct in Norway. In my opinion, these are good reasons which would suggest that when a species changes its status that way, one should show even greater caution, go through the decisions that are made, and see how this affects the species. It is true, as the Council of State says, that there were observed hedges in 1988, but there have been several observations of the species in the species database post-mortem observations. Why have the decisions taken not been reviewed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1220	Let me start by repeating what I ended up with in my first answer. This concession was given before the update of the red list, and the status of the myrhauk was at the time we gave the concession, another. In any case, we do not see that the conclusion should have been different even if it had not been the case. That being said, the Ministry of Oil and Energy naturally places emphasis on balancing the important need for us to continue to develop our renewable power system, based on the use of hydropower resources. Regulatory hydropower means a lot to the way we operate our system, and that means a lot to Norway's ability to be an exporter of renewable energy, both in the form of power and in the form of aluminium and silicon, in the process of building a more sustainable global energy system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1225	The law on concession cases gives the following leads: if significant interests are opposed, the matter shall be referred to the Grand Duchy before the concession is granted, unless the Ministry finds it unnecessary. The government has not chosen to send hydropower expansion in Lower Otta to treatment in the Storting despite the fact that this is the largest expansion in a long time, and that significant interests are opposed to each other. And now that hydropower is also granted in Einunndalen, in the middle of the anthawk's habitat – and we know that the anthawk goes from being vulnerable to being strongly threatened – the council of state still justifies not drawing this case to the Stortinget by saying that it is considered to have a minor impact on the anthawk, and that the status of the anthawk was updated after the concession was given, despite the fact that the NVE advised against this. My questions are: how significant must conflicts of interest be in order for the Council of State to send matters to Stortinget? And: Where did the threat of extinction have to be before the council would be willing to say that this matter should be dealt with by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1234	I need to repeat, when the representative Eidsvoll Holmås calls this area «in the middle of the anthill's habitat»: Give that there is no documented reirfinn in the area of approx. Twenty-five years, I don't think it's right from Stortingen's pulpit to call this "in the middle of the anthawk's habitat". Then it is right that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås pointed to, the NVE recommended that we do not grant a concession. There's a reason why we've chosen to organise watercourse legislation in the way we have, for over 100 years. These are decisions that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has to make, but I also want to point out what I also said in my original response, that the NVE does not believe that the basis of knowledge as to the bird, not the anthill, is too weak for this concession to be decided within a reasonable framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1241	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-25.ana.ud453e1254	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
