ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e26	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, has taken the seat. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e34	On behalf of the representative Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e51	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first question, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e58	For the first time, unemployment is above 4 pst. It's serious for the individual, and it's serious for society. Unemployment is a waste of our most valuable resource, and work for everyone is and has always been the Workers' Party's job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The government's estimate in the revised national budget is that the unemployment rate will stabilize at the current level. It's not a reassuring estimate. 112,000 is available, and the number is rising. All experience suggests that we have to fight unemployment before it reaches unacceptable levels. The management of increasing unemployment tells the story of a government in deficit. We saw the same slowness in late and deficient measures to relieve the local government's pressured economy, where six out of ten school leaders now announce that they're canceling teachers. We see a government on arrears towards the increasing unemployment. No one can hold a Norwegian government responsible for the fall in oil prices. Our criticism is directed towards the passivity and choice of crazy strategy over a long period of time, not least the absence of an active industrial policy. Such policies have worked before. When the recession struck after the financial crisis in 2008, we were able to keep Europe’s lowest unemployment due to adapted economic policies, but also through active industrial policies to create more jobs. The conversion of Norway requires active action — more than the large and unsocial tax cuts that have no demonstrable effect on the activity but appear to be the government’s main strategy. To date, this government lacks an ambition for how business policy should contribute to increased employment. The big message we made for a business policy for conversion was put in the drawer. No new one's come in the place. Why has the government not taken the opportunity to take any new enterprise policy initiatives in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e69	Not to deal with tile nailing, but I fully agree that the level of unemployment we have today is too high – too high – and we should have absolute ambition for unemployment to be low in the future. It is fundamentally unfair and fundamentally difficult for a family to live in the uncertainty of losing a job. We've had unemployment for periods of over 4 pst. before. It's been a while, but we've been there before. What the government has done is from day one to prepare and work on a change in the Norwegian economy, which we would be coming for a long time. We would have a situation with a lower investment rate in the oil and gas industries. We knew that the years 2013 and 2012 could be among the highest in oil and gas investment. One of the greatest challenges facing the previous government was: How do we work with the long-term competitiveness? For this reason, the government has been involved in the transition, not only in the context of the revised national budget, but from the revision of the budget submitted in autumn 2013. We now have record investment in infrastructure, which is why it is the first time we do not have an increase, but actually a decline in road maintenance and maintenance delays on trains – which actually contributes to employment in that sector. That is why we are now planning extraordinary amounts to ensure that we have road projects in the years to come. That is why we provide better framework conditions for Norwegian business on the tax side. That is why we provide better framework conditions for the renewable sector under this government – which the previous government did not – precisely in order to realise the major projects that are needed to enable us to develop further. Saying that we only lack a package in the revised national budget when the entire government's work has just been about competitiveness, is really coming very late from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e76	Not to operate tile nailing, but this was an interesting report on infrastructure and other measures — and no response on industrial policy. And that's symptomatic, because there's no active business policy to tell about. The second question to follow up with here is the waiting and seeing attitude towards the labour market: the government should have listened last year to the votes, the social partners, who warned and pleaded insistently to reverse the changes to the permitting legislation already at the time of the revision of the budget one year ago. Now there'll be changes, but they'll be more than a year late. The number of places of action is one of the same: last year we proposed increasing the number of places, when we saw the progress being made. Now the government says they're going to increase the number of places by 1,000. That's good, and we want to support it, but with our arrangement, we could have had 3,000 more action sites already in January. My question is: If unemployment continues to rise, or remains at this level: What measures in the labour market does the Prime Minister see in the face of this development – given those who experience the difficult situation of losing their job or getting out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e85	I think it is interesting if the Labour Party believes that increased appropriations for road maintenance and train maintenance do not have an impact on the labour market. There was a major and important measure in the action package for the previous government, in 2009. So when we do that, it doesn't matter. It is also interesting to ask: what is an active industrial policy for a government from the Workers' Party, if it is not to invest in better infrastructure, if it is not to invest in research and development, if it is not to invest in all the research and business areas, as this government has done: BIA, FORNY 2020, the climate and environmental technology funds – that whole range. That's what creates change and the new jobs. What are actually active business policies? Is it to create special subsidy schemes for individual industries? We contribute to the creation of the solid new jobs, contribute to the development of a more robust Norwegian economy, and we contribute to measures that today create more activity, especially in the road maintenance sector, in the train maintenance sector. That's why it works both in the short and long term, and it's striking... now I don't have any more time, so I'll take it in the next line, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e94	There will be follow-up questions – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e97	It shall be possible to answer the question put by the representative Gahr Støre. Nearly a year ago we had an interpellation debate here, asking the Prime Minister just about the situation on the labour market. Then the Prime Minister said that she should follow the situation closely. All that time, we saw challenges in the labour market, but little action from the government. Since then, the government has continued to ignore the challenges, even though they themselves have announced increased unemployment. In the government budget for this year, the government disregarded employers’ and employees’ desire for better law-making, more action places and a more active industrial policy. So those warnings were not heard. Yesterday there were the 300 employees in Rolls-Royce who lost their job, which was the theme. Then the Prime Minister's answer was that she should continue to follow the situation closely. Then my question becomes: When will we see something more active than the Prime Minister telling her to follow the situation closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e104	The revised national budget is just an answer to the situation that we are following closely. That is why we have said, as we have said all along, that if the labour market changes, we will also change the rules of leave. Permitting rules are a good tool to use up and down, as the labour market is, because during certain periods there is a need to contribute to the transition so that workers are not locked in and new crops are not employed. In other periods, it is important to ensure that, when there are no new jobs there, competences can be enhanced and linked to the enterprises that are. But it is a fundamental question that I think the Workers' Party must begin to answer in the debates on these questions: What are their alternatives? Are there only a little more labour market measures? We have increased the number of labour market measures. Last year, however, the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman said that we were showing a lack of moderation in the budget we put forward, and proposed 2 billion. kr less and a slightly lower budgetary impulse. Is it that one still believes that the budget is keeping, or will one now increase the budgetary impulses and thus stimulate the Norwegian economy more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e111	Do I have the opportunity to answer that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e116	No, no, no. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e120	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his good answers. It is quite obvious that there are many instruments that are important to strengthen the opportunities to create businesses and secure jobs. Two key budgetary interventions are the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, a laboratory that can test pilots to develop and remain in Norway. Another is that the government has announced that it will reduce the electricity charge for green data centres, which can contribute to enormous value creation in Norway – and not just in the countries around us – so that we are competitive. It's still a serious situation we're going into. One sees gloomy prospects, where there can be many unemployed. That is why the Christian People's Party has been concerned that, in such situations, we need to use the means of action, to provide help, assistance, education and work training both to those who are unemployed, and also to people with reduced working capacity and need extra help. Last year we got in more, but 200 million. kr was not used, and in revised notices the government said 100 million. NOK of the money that was not used last year is withdrawn. Why does the Prime Minister not want to use them in several places of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e129	We are increasing the number of action places in the revised national budget in the ordinary labour market, where unemployment is now coming. Then there is a bump in Nav to get enough action in the other areas, and then action places are important. And I agree that it is most important for those who are weakest in the labour market, because it is those who need to fill their skills. Many of those who are now unemployed come with a high level of competence and need to see a new job. And it's clear that for engineers who become unemployed, who have worked with large oil plants, it's actually more important that we now have record-breaking investments in transport, and that we are asking more engineers to build the great bridge facilities we've been planning to build on the West, for example. The sotra bridge, which we now provide with money on the OPS project, which will increase the demand for that type of labour. That is why our budget is well adapted; it is adapted to the type of unemployment we are looking forward to. But we can't produce more labour market measures for the weakest than what Nav can actually ask for and create.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e136	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e139	From the day one, the government has been pursuing a policy of centralisation. A number of places in Norway experience, as well as a decline in employment and a decline in the economy, that government jobs are being moved away. Major centralisation processes are under way in Innovation Norway and the Fisheries Directorate, the closure of police districts and the closure of local tax collection jobs. The list is long. This will affect people in many places in Norway very heavily and is definitely not tile nailing. The central party requires an overall impact assessment of the government’s centralisation policy. Both we and the citizens will then get a comprehensive picture of the impact of government centralisation policies on employment in places such as Eigersund, Steinkjer, Måløy and Vadsø. Will the Prime Minister initiate such an overall assessment of the impact of government centralisation on the labour market of different communities in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e146	We closely follow the consequences of the different types of processes we have, and several of the processes that are now mentioned are not processes that have been politically completed. Taking into account the proposals of the various agencies for the allocation of jobs is not to say what the government is doing. So the government didn't decide anything. And I think we're going to get good news for many district jobs, also related to the cooperation we have with the cooperation parties on the Stortinget, for example. for the workplaces of the Directorate-General for Fisheries – as the government did not follow the recommendations of the Food Safety Authority on regional structure, but chose, for example: to maintain the regional office in Sortland, through a political decision, because we believe that this is the right place for jobs. The central party is now pushing ahead with decisions in many areas where the government has decided nothing. I believe that we should be careful where we place jobs. This should be done on the basis of good services, but jobs should of course be placed primarily where they are needed, if they can be filled with good qualified applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e153	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e156	Of course, it is alarming that the unemployed path, and it would have increased even more if it were not for all the workers who now left Norway. In such a situation, of course, it is important to apply the profile to the revised national budget. In government proposals, a public expenditure increase from 2.3 pst. to 2.8 pst., which is significant over the growth of the economy otherwise, which is estimated to be below 1.5 pst. When adding to that type of expenditure growth, it must be suggested that there is at least a right to create new jobs and to change. What we see becoming a priority is action spaces and more piercing rules. What measures in the revised national budget contribute to the creation of the new green jobs, which the Prime Minister has promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e165	I would like to remind you that the main reason why public spending is growing more than growth is a fall in growth. The second main reason is that the budgetary agreement entered into by the four parties on the Storting decreased part of the tax relief and increased public expenditure to finance it. So I think the Left is going to take part of the credit for the increased growth in public expenditure through the deal we've made together. The base of the budget is the majority of what helps us get more green jobs. These are all the increases we have made in the industrial research areas, in the climate technology fund and in the environmental technology system. In addition, the revised national budget includes, for example: better framework conditions for data centres for the future. We have committed ourselves to a revised national budget based on that budget and the budgetary agreement we have, and not many new measures, because we believe that the budget at the bottom is a good budget – also for the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e176	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e179	In earlier times of increased unemployment, different governments have often chosen to increase their capacity for higher education. It has been an important tool: reducing unemployment, giving people the opportunity to acquire new skills and providing society with a tool to meet important skills challenges. We have a precarious need for people with competence for the green conversion of Norway, and we have a great need for people with competence in health and education in the future. More and more young people are looking for just these training courses, without having room, so why not increase the capacity of these fields? The only increase proposed by this government is 24 study places in the field of petroleum, closer to certain deep-water technology. Why are these 24 study places the only increase from government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e186	It is quite right that providing more education can be a good tool, but one of the most important things we do is to analyse the needs of the part of the workforce that is now unemployed. Does it need a new education to do something else? Do the engineers from the oil industry need to train to become nurses? No, I don't think so. I think they need to be engineers in the future, because we will in the long run still need engineers. That is why for the first time we have met our needs for engineers in our relations. Therefore, the municipalities now feel that they have enough building engineers, after the construction queue has increased. I am not sure that an offer of nursing training to oil engineers is the answer today. On the contrary, it will not contribute to the green shift. What really contributes to the green shift is that we are now developing new jobs. For this reason, this government has made a change of pace – as opposed to the red-green government – for stimulating nutrient research on the schemes that contribute to the new jobs, so that we can use the skills that become available, for example: on the engineering and IT side.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e194	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e197	What we're facing is the beginning of the end of the oil sector. We can discuss how fast or how slow it will be, but we will have to replace that sector with one or more other sectors. Then it does not keep creating new jobs by continuing to build roads. We need to find the new resources, and we need to find the new technologies that will provide jobs in a magnitude that can replace the oil sector. Then we know that there are natural resources we have to look at, and then we know that there is renewable energy we have to look at. For example, the Greens have a Greens. proposed that we have a strong commitment to developing wind power, which is the largest unused energy resource we have in Norway. The question is: What are the major sectoral efforts for the development of new industries in the green sector, which can replace large-scale oil workplaces, and what is this government's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e204	Based on that reply, I believe that I would fundamentally disagree with a premise – that we should only look in the renewable sector or only in the natural resource sectors, depending on where the new jobs will come. I don't think that's what we're going to live on in this country. I think that's the competence we're going to live on first. I think, for example, health technology and medical research — many things that are exciting and that we do a lot of work in Norway — mean that many of the new jobs will come. We must not become so blind that we still just think that energy is the only thing Norway should live by – although this government has done great things about renewable energy. We have made better depreciation rules, which ensure that we have more investment in this in Norway, through the electricity licence market we have with Sweden. We have contributed by replenishing capital to Statkraft, which makes it more likely that we can realize some of the large wind farms planned. This was necessary and is among the offensive grips the government is taking, in order to have that kind of industry in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e211	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e214	Alcohol is part of our society and, gradually, also a part of Norwegian working life – to the delight of some and a huge challenge for others. Between 50 000 and 150 000 children grow up with an alcohol problem in the family and grunt until 17 May, Christmas, Easter, Pentecost — yes, every weekend, even every day. The world is completely different when Mom and Dad drink. Fear and insecurity are growing among the little ones. On average, each addict has three people around him who are injured. This applies to many people. Those who have an abuse need treatment, care and aftercare. This is something that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has praised. It's a long-term and necessary bet. But alcohol-related problems are not just linked to large consumers. There is no clear limit between abuse and use, between harmful and non-harmful alcohol consumption. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a very good description of reality in the new public health report Mestring and opportunities, but lacks good action on alcohol policy. The notification points out that the alcohol turnover has increased by 35 pst. in 10 years. The large group of moderate alcohol consumption is the one that causes the most damage, sickness and job absence. Alcohol abuse has a high cost for individuals, society and working life. Prevention is more effective than treatment. The Christian People's Party has just presented good offensive proposals on good alcohol policy. Will the government join the World Health Organisation's goal of reducing the damage by 10 pst. by 2025? Will the government continue to work for a solidarity and restrictive alcohol policy that is part of public health policy and public health work, and reach the target of 10 pst. harm reduction by 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e227	I want to start by saying that I fully agree that one of the important focus points we need in our drug policy is the consequences for children, the consequences for the family around those who abuse alcohol. First of all, we know that there is great damage — great emotional damage, great mental problems. Maybe for too long we've chosen to treat just the one person who has an abuse, and not see the whole family in a context. We have to get better at that. It is among those – I think – that broader strategies are being put in place within treatment interventions. We are now significantly increasing the funds for drug treatment in Norway. Among other things, we have notified – in the municipal proposition under consideration here – 400 million. kr for the income of municipalities, which will strengthen the services of those with drug problems. Of course, it is important to help individuals, but there will also be room for municipalities and others who can work with larger and wider support measures. We have an ambition to reduce alcohol consumption in Norway. We have an ambition to reduce the damage associated with this, and we have said in the platform on which this government governs that the main measures of the drugs policy and of the alcohol policy should be firm. So alcohol is also part of the social life we have in Norway. I think we can be moralizing about the consumption of alcohol by many people. I don't think we can expect to be able to remove it, but I think we need to work a lot more to make alcohol-free times and non-alcoholic areas, especially where children are present, so that adults also think about how their alcohol consumption affects the children around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e240	I thank you for the answer, and at the same time I note that the Christian People's Party is aware that some changes in Norwegian alcohol policy in sum have challenged the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy. At the same time, the government has raised the issue of free treatment for those who are struggling with alcohol and mental health problems in the specialist health service. So it's like patients who are in the municipalities and who want something other than specialist health services, who might imagine a stay at an ideal offer like this. The Blue Cross, or the Salvation Army, gets no from the municipality because the municipality does not receive a refund because it becomes more expensive. How will the government ensure that municipalities do not deliberately deprioritise good treatment services that patients themselves want when they are part of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e247	When we add more money to the municipalities just to work on rehabilitation, there is a greater opportunity for individuals who are not in the specialist health service to get a better follow-up offer and other, and to make less gaps between the offers. One of the things that drug users themselves say to us very clearly is that we waste a lot of money on this sector because there are too many holes between the different chains. Our challenge must then be to ensure that the municipalities are involved in that plan. I don't think it should be done just through earmarked schemes or adopting guidelines on the local authorities' heads. In fact, I believe in the committed municipal politicians. I believe in all the KrFs around the local government fighting for a better drug supply there as well. I have experienced myself as a local government representative that the commitment to a good policy in these areas is actually much greater if it is a separate initiative than if the state is to govern everything in detail. I believe a little in engaged municipal politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e254	There will be follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e257	I am very pleased with the entrance that the Prime Minister takes to look at the consequences of alcohol abuse both for children and for others in the family, which is very important. It's right that there's 400 million. kr in the municipal bill currently under consideration. But in the current year, we have also put money in place. It's an ear tag of 100 million. NOK to social work in municipalities and for the purchase of several places from non-profit actors. In Eastfold, there is a variety of ideal actors – the Salvation Army, Phoenix Haga, the Origin Center, the Blue Cross and the Gospel Center, to name a few. When I was at the Gospel Centre on Monday and met them there, they said they had contact meetings with the municipalities, and the Eastern Municipalities did not know that there were funds earmarked for this purpose in the current year. How will the Prime Minister take the initiative that the municipal politicians, who are engaged, know and can apply within the deadline?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e266	It is quite possible that we have to work more to inform the municipalities about the different earmarked schemes. It is also such that for some earmarked schemes, it is a challenge that it is perceived as a bureaucracy to apply to them. That's why we've chosen to place the 400 million. kr on a visible transfer mechanism, but do not designate them. This is our proposal for the Storting now. They will then be located in the municipalities, and it will be visible how much has been given to each municipality through that allocation method. This means that you can ask locally if they are used the right way. I am fully aware that there is going to be a discussion in Stortinget about whether they should be earmarked or not, but there are some costs of earmarked schemes that you should not forget, which go on bureaucracy, and which makes some municipalities refuse to apply, especially if there are small measures. That's why I think maybe we should be more good at believing in the local politicians and the commitment they have, by adding this money the way we do now, rather than ringing too much in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e274	Ruth Grung – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e277	The working party similar to the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the government is so clear in the public health report on the relationship between alcohol and public health. However, we lack equal clarity in measures to prevent and reduce alcohol damage. It turns out that alcohol policy is one of the most pervasive areas we have. But at the same time, we have remarkably little statistics on consumption and the consequences of alcohol use. Then we could more clearly see the consequences of the tax-free sale and what it has had to say for public health. Similarly, we could have seen that a larger and larger part of the alcohol turnover is now being shifted to unregulated sales. The elected representatives would also, as the Prime Minister pointed out, have been given a better instrument to follow up local work. What will the Prime Minister do to improve and improve the coherence of alcohol statistics, national and municipal, in order to strengthen the knowledge base for preventive health work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e286	I am absolutely sure that we could have better statistics in these areas. I don't think we have the basis to say that there is more unregulated purchase and sale of alcohol now than it was before. The sporadic surveys that have been carried out have shown that it has been quite large. On the contrary, one of the effects of establishing polydrug sales around the country has been that there has been less creative local production and less smuggling of alcohol in those areas. To conclude that we currently consume more from sources other than the legal ones, I do not know if we have any basis for doing so. It's also very difficult to ask people if they do illegalities, and thus could get honest statistics about it. I think the most important thing we do is not to look for the statistics. In fact, the most important thing is that we are all norms for less alcohol use, especially where children are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e293	Kjersti Top - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e296	The government has gone thoroughly to work and liberalised fields after fields in the alcohol field after selection. Taxfree quotas have increased, the opening time of the Vinmonopole is liberalised, the advertising ban should be softened, and one has refused to introduce alcohol labelling. Tomorrow, the Storting will adopt norms for the control and sanctions of the hamlets, which will impose on the major cities of Norway a system in which the hamlet will be more difficult to lose in comparison with current practices. One should be able to give up more minors and more excessive amounts of money without losing the right. How does the Prime Minister feel that this is a policy that will minimise harmful alcohol consumption is very incomprehensible. I would like an answer from the Prime Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e303	I do not agree that we have liberalised fields after fields, and I think it is always as striking to hear how morally angry red-green politicians are that our government has made a slight change in the tax-free system, while at the same time they praised themselves for making another change in the tax-free system in 2006. Then it was for the best for people – now it's for the worst for people. I think it's better to be morally offended over yourself than over others. Creating new rules relating to the treatment of municipalities is a matter of legal certainty, and it is a matter of actual trial in the courts of the cases we have had because the old rules were not legal enough. We're adjusting the law to that. Then we've been concerned that there should be a certain predictability, and that it should not be too bureaucratic for those who are nutritionists in this area. It is fully possible for Norwegian politicians to make changes in alcohol policy and to have a local alcohol policy as anchored, but there must also be legal certainty for those who sell. We have been given that it is not, and then we have to make changes. The size must also ensure legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e312	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e315	Tomorrow I am invited to the Lillehammer High School and the East Norwegian Film Centre at a film premiere. The film is about being a child of addicts. It's a film to which the government and the cooperation parties have contributed, and which I think gives a very useful tool to the children who experience coming in this situation. They get a language and an understanding. There are children who are related, it is the Hospital Inland, and there are several actors who have been involved in that project. At the same time, many municipalities work regionally in Uppland with midwives who have a drug problem. What the mothers experience is that they have to knock on 16 doors to get help, so we're also facing some structural challenges in helping those who have been hit in that situation. We have about 150 family houses, and we have 428 municipalities. The question is, When does the government bet on establishing more Family Houses in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e324	The government has announced that we will submit an escalation plan for the care of drug users. In that context, we now receive lots of recordings, and we invite you to the recording meeting. It will also arrange the four parties behind the cooperation agreement for the week – a recording meeting with everyone to hear what we should do about improvements. In the context of that action plan, I believe that we need to look at how we safeguard children in such a situation, how we safeguard families as a whole, and how we ensure quality. More care and more services are important. It's also important to focus on the fact that the offers that we're making actually provide quality. We know that means that they have to have a certain length, that you have to see the whole life situation of a drug addict to get it done, and you have to see the relatives together. I expect that the answers to this will come when we have completed the treatment of the plan of action and the plan of action to come, where there will be room for – including within this money that the municipality is now being transferred – to establish many more of this kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e333	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e336	It is good that there is broad agreement to take increased measures to reduce alcohol damage in Norway. One of the instruments well established in this country is the wine monopoly system, which regulates the marketing of alcohol, because access to alcohol is a very important factor in this problem. And then at the same time, we've placed a giant chicken in the middle of that nest, called the tax-free sales of alcohol. It increases very rapidly, increases access to and use of alcohol and threatens the wine monopoly system directly as well as the subsidisation of climate-friendly air travel. How will the Prime Minister explain the maintenance of such a system that undermines other alcohol policy instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e342	The tax-free system and the wine monopoly system have lived side by side in impending times without being perceived as challenging each other. The tax-free scheme is also a regulated sale. The fact that people are travelling more, and that is why more people can make use of the tax-free system, is part of the welfare development we have today. The government has no intention of removing the tax-free system. It would also pose a relatively big challenge in terms of how to secure some of the revenues that we now have. It contributes to the maintenance of district aerodromes in Norway. In fact, it is today an important source of income for the infrastructure development on which District Norway is completely dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e349	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e352	The Government says in its Communication that it will facilitate the foreseeable growth of the salmon farming industry. If the government succeeds in this, it depends entirely on the municipalities adding the right new area for the farming industry. In order to bring the municipalities along the coast into this area, the one who makes the land must have his rightful share of the value creation. The centre party therefore wants an area charge to the municipalities. In the budget position of the State budget in 2014, a majority of the Stortinget asked that the land tax be investigated and that the investigation be targeted and focused on how municipalities should obtain a long-term and stable share of the value creation related to aquaculture. In the revised state budget, the government is saying on the contrary that it refuses to give coastal municipalities part of the value creation through an area tax. In view of the fact that the government has had a year and a half to charge the fee, the reason is not very impressive either. It's the city goggles and the cold, finance-ministerial logic that governs government policy, and the government doesn't take over the reality that's along the coast. So my question is, how is the government going to achieve its goal of growth in the farming industry if the municipalities don't think it's worth making land available?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e361	The Prime Minister has now come up in a dilemma, because the Prime Minister has not taken part in the government's work on the area tax issue, as I have myself assessed that this is within the precautionary rules for stability as my sister is in the Marine Harvest group management, one of the companies that will be significantly affected by such a charge. This means that it is difficult for the Prime Minister to answer a question that the Prime Minister does not take part in the practical treatment of. So, on a general question about how the government is going to contribute to more growth, I can answer, but on a special question that concerns the area tax, I have declared myself incapacitated to participate in that kind of discussion and have also not participated in the government's work on that question. But I would like to stress that this government has increased the proportion that municipalities get, for example. the fee paid when you receive a new concession, i.e. the concession price. It has been among the things that the government has contributed to, so that the municipalities are interested in issuing new concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e368	This was a little strange, because here I get a halfway answer, but not a complete answer. This is, of course, about the ability of municipalities to impose a tax, and I believe that the Prime Minister should have a view on that. My question goes further on to the lack of predictability that is in the current regime. In the State budget for 2015, the host municipalities were proposed to generate revenues of 540 million. kr – regardless of who pays the money. In the revised state budget, two thirds of that money is not paid because the concession process did not go as planned. Nor in the farm message adds one to a predictable system. One adds to a system where the municipal tax revenue — and welfare provision for the inhabitants — to municipalities such as Frøya, Finnøy, Aure, Steigen, Bømlo and other coastal municipalities depend on the lice level of salmon islands. So I'm once again trying to ask if the Prime Minister will reconsider his position on saying on the contrary no to introduce an area tax, regardless of who pays it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e379	I think I will send that question to the rest of the government, so they can probably find a time to answer whether it will be a reassessment by the government. I will not participate in that assessment, based on the fact that I have not done so with regard to the area charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e384	The President considers that it is not appropriate to spend more time on this issue, as the Prime Minister, for good reason, will not go ahead with it. Then more follow-up questions are opened up after the last question, which the Labour Party would like to have, where we often only have a few follow-up questions. That's why we're taking out the remaining questions from the questionnaire. Then we move on to the next main question, which is from Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e389	One of the major challenges facing the world is to limit global warming. As far as climate work is concerned, the Left is well pleased with the cooperation we have with the government through the budgetary agreements we have, and also with the agreement we have on the objective of reducing emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030, and we look forward to actions to be implemented to achieve it. Another major international challenge is to stop the loss of natural diversity. Norway has signed the Nagoya Protocol to the Convention on Biological Diversity, perhaps the most important global environmental agreement since the turn of the century. It was adopted in 2010 and agreed on 20 targets to help halt the loss of natural diversity in 10 years and to halve the loss of natural habitats at least. Now it's been five years. The ambition for the protection of nature is numerically fixed to 17 pst. of the land and freshwater areas and 10 pst. of sea and coastal areas. A partial measure says that 15 pst. of the natural areas already damaged shall be restored. There is agreement to add unfortunate subsidies that contribute to the loss of natural diversity. Genetic resources for food production and the use of ecosystems in the fight against climate change are agreed. In the light of these global objectives, each country shall set its own national targets and develop national action plans to ensure that the targets are followed. Then my question becomes: how does the Prime Minister see that she will be leading the work of caring for the Norwegian natural diversity, and what action can we expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e400	We are now working on the question of our follow-up to this Convention and how we are to preserve biodiversity and the question of restoration of areas. Some of these measures also go hand in hand, for example. The restoration of ants goes hand in hand with the climate challenges. We have allocated more money to increased knowledge of nature, we have decided to include some new species and natural habitat types in the list of priority species, among others. mountain reefs and coastal lynghei, and we're working on the follow-up as such. We view this as a very important screening work. I would like to say that in many cases we are in a conflict between the development and monitoring of natural diversity. But what we see as we map more is that it also actually provides the basis for easier processes in development. The fact that we've done that mapping work at an earlier stage makes it easier to find the right way to go through the plans that exist. That's why it's important, and I'm saying that we're following up. The details we get back to once the government has decided just when we bring it up, and in what areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e409	I thank you for your answer. Monitoring is important. It is important to be able to act, but at the same time we are left behind in many areas. In the case of productive forest, it's still just 2.7 pst. by the protected person. When we look at the protection of marine areas, it's still just 2.6 pst, while there's a very concrete goal within the Nagoya Protocol on 10 pst. One thing is mapping, but much more important is driving active care, because here you have to have a consciousness not just about what you protect from, but just about what you protect for. Then my question becomes: Can one expect not only a survey and a description of the situation, but also a concrete action plan, which needs to be taken on climate change, also in terms of reducing loss and nurturing natural diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e414	First of all, we're doing actions now. We have just protected more forests, in the East, among others. We have protected more important forests within Oslomarka to ensure special forest areas and values associated with them. But before we decide what actions we're doing, we're going to have to figure out what we're going to protect, and in what way we're going to do it. We are open to creating an action plan related to this, but the first thing we have to do is to have well enough identified areas, and what we are now committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e420	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e423	It is a matter of nature protection that has seen the Norwegian and the international environmental movement in fire, and it is the government's decision to allow the establishment of a mine landfill in Fördefjorden. These plans have received clear professional feedback from the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries. It is good that the government, as the Prime Minister says, will allow more money for knowledge of nature, but then one should also listen to that knowledge when talking. This is a national salmon fjord that is now to dump millions of tons of mining waste and chemicals every year. After the finished process, the fjord depth will be halved over an area of 4 km2. The case is also complained to ESA. How does my Prime Minister that this decision contributes positively to the achievement of the international objectives we have committed ourselves to in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e433	There has been a thorough effort to identify the environmental impact of granting extraction permits in the Engebøjellet. This has been done in terms of both the fishing interests and the other environmental interests and the consequences. What has been said is that it could have consequences for two species of fish in the area, piggå and blue lang, where it will take a little longer to reach the stock targets that we have set for them. But beyond that, the experience is that this will not have a greater environmental impact on conditions. That is what is related to the environmental and fisheries assessment. Based on this, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has established strict conditions for emissions and has to monitor them closely, but we believe that the balance between jobs and the environment is to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e438	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e441	Thank you to the Left for raising a very good question, because in addition to the climate challenge, nature protection is the second major environmental challenge. The Prime Minister has made sure that we no longer have a Ministry of Environmental Protection. The fact that the word ‘environmental protection’ is away from the title of the department is not so bad in itself is that it has also gone away from the policy. On a case-by-case basis, we see that nature protection is losing. It concerns the matter as it was asked here instead, but it also concerns illegal attempts at snowmobiles driving or two-thirds cuts in forest protection, as the government proposed in its budget. Six months ago, the Prime Minister was asked in the Questionnaire whether she could mention a few–three examples of nature protection measures that this government has faced. Then the answer was no. The Prime Minister could not mention one single example of the initiative this government had taken. Therefore I try again: can the Prime Minister now, after almost two years, refer to a few examples this government has had of great conservation efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e448	We have included mountain reefs in the list of priority species, and we have included coyotes in the list of priority species. During this spring, we have protected more forest areas to secure them for the future. Yes, it takes some time to come up with new initiatives, but now we've actually done a lot of practical things in some areas. What's my question back is how the Workers' Party actually deals with the extraction in the Engebøfjellet. It's very good for the Workers' Party to criticize, but in Sogn and Fjordne they applaud it. What is the Workers' Party's position on this? Is it just criticism you have to make, or do you have a point of view? Are you in favour of or against these jobs? What does the Workers' Party think about this? Before the election, they were supposed to clean up the snowmobile case, what do they think about it? Are those choices they gave before the election to those who were occupied with snowmobiles, completely gone because they can attack us in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e457	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e460	The Government Declaration states: "The globe we're going to leave to our children is going to be in at least as good a condition as we took it from our ancestors." That's very well said, but it requires one to follow up in practice. Unfortunately, there are many examples of government doing the opposite. I can mention, as it has been done earlier here, the sea depot in Fördefjord, the move of the ice edge, to allow pleasure driving with snowmobiles, Sunday-open shops, the lifting of the ban on lead hail, poorer environmental requirements for oil transhipment in Bøkfjorden and increased farming. In what way does the Prime Minister think that the government is following up its own commitments on administrative responsibilities and the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e472	I believe that we follow it up every day. We're doing it through an active climate policy. We have encouraged the Stortinget proposal and broad agreement that we should have ambitious targets by 2030, and that we should enter into the so-called EU system in order to achieve this in a way that requires us both to take our own burdens and to help our part of the world achieve ambitious goals related to it. The 2-degree goal may be the absolute most important one for future generations to meet. I don't think increased breeding is a problem for future generations. I believe that the rearing of fish, which is a protein source, is more environmentally and more climate-friendly than, for example. meat production. If more of the world's protein production comes from fish – and we have an increase in the world's population – there will be less environmental footprint of it than if protein is to be extracted from other meat protein sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e479	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e482	On August 12, 2013, Erna Solberg said: ‘An environmental policy needs to be reinvigorated. Under today's government, classical nature protection has been downgraded.» That's what she said about the previous government. Since then, the government has opened sea depot in Fördefjorden, oil reloading in Bøkfjorden in violation of environmental recommendations, sea landfill in Repparfjorden, yes to pleasure driving with snowmobiles, yes to lead from lead hail in Norwegian nature. They want to move the edge of the ice to drill for more oil, and suggested large cuts in forest protection that fortunately were not adopted. The list of Prime Minister Erna Solberg on what they have done with the effort for nature consists of some forest areas, coastal lynghei and mountain reefs. It's good, it's with coastal lynghei and the mountain reef, but it's preserved, is it so that the Prime Minister thinks this is in line with the criticism she has raised against the red-green government – looking up to what she herself has done about the destruction of nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e493	I believe that there is no basis for saying that this government contributes to destruction. It is important to ask the question: is it so that every thing that changes nature, for example? a mine development, in itself, is completely impossible to do, even if you have an environmental focus? No, you have to go in and see what the consequences are. In this case, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have assessed it so that it is possible to take two considerations into account at the same time. As far as snowmobile driving is concerned, I believe that the pressure from it is relatively minimal in terms of the environment. There are many who like to go in peace in the mountains and don't like snowmobiles. Therefore, it must be regulated, and it must be regulated by the municipalities, so that all users of the mountains in that area are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e500	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e503	The Prime Minister leads a government that stresses that it is knowledge-based, and certainly agrees that if we are to be able to preserve Norwegian nature and Norwegian biodiversity, we must base that work on knowledge. We have a species database under the Ministry of Knowledge, which provides knowledge of which species are most threatened in Norwegian nature, so that action can be taken to solve those problems. Some of these species are predators, and Norway’s most endangered predatory species is called wolf. It is critically threatened, while gloat, brown bear and yerv are heavily threatened. Can the Prime Minister confirm that she will take action to obtain these four species from the list of endangered species in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e508	I can confirm that the broad predatory agreement that was concluded under the previous government here in Stortinget, we will follow up with the stock targets that were set. I also see that we have now had a slightly faster clearance of breeding permits where predators attack, in areas where they should not be, and where they have reached the stock targets. It is possible that the Green Party does not agree with that agreement, but that agreement will govern it. The area not determined by the settlement is that of wolves. We will be in conversation with the big parties about this and give feedback on it, as the climate and environment minister has said. I think it is important that we should be able to have animals, that we should be able to have good living conditions for people in predatory areas, but we should also have predators in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e515	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e518	In winter, TV 2 could tell about 12 - year - old Martin Lundstein, who lives in the Adamstudio in Oslo. Martin has asthma, and he notices the most polluted days in the city very well. I quote from the entry: ‘– I’m afraid to go out those days because I can’t breathe. It's like breathing through a pipe thinner than a suction tube. It hurts, says Martin." The mother of Martin could in this entry tell that Martin was away every winter from school four weeks. In a large European study, there is now a link between pneumonia in children and long-term air pollution at levels below the limit values we operate with for particulate matter. There is also a link between air pollution below today’s limit values and low birth weight in children. Also for adults, the study shows a number of alarming findings: increased probability of brain bleeding, reduction of lung function, heart attack, lung cancer, increased mortality. This kind of research was the background to the previous government asking for a review of what we know today about the health effects of air pollution. The Public Health Institute then said that more recent research shows that adverse health effects occur at much lower concentrations of particulate matter than current limit values. On 28 February 2014, the Environment Directorate, the Public Health Institute, the Health Directorate and the State Road Administration sent a letter to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment asking that the limits on the amount of particulate matter allowed in Norway be significantly reduced as of 1 January 2015. Today it's May 20th. One year and 81 days have passed since the alarming letter was received. The government continues to assess this. What does the Prime Minister know that the Health Directorate does not know, when her government has failed to follow up the new boundaries that would apply from 1 January this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e532	This is a serious problem – I fully agree with that. It's serious. What is clearly documented is that health challenges are high even below today’s agreed limits. That means that we are actively working on finding out the good tools, the good framework conditions, to bring down the suspended dust. There are many different measures to be implemented, and before adopting new requirements, we need to know a little more about the impact of the different measures and the costs of the different measures. That's why it takes time. The departments are now working on the follow-up. It will be up to the municipalities to make adjustments related to this, and it goes parallel to much of the discussion we have about urban air in general, which comes not only from particulate matter, but also from NOx. We also know that some of the urban air problems were exacerbated by the changes that occurred when there were several diesel cars around the cities. The changes made to the charging system from 2007 contributed to more emissions of NOx, in particular, and it has made urban air worse. On the positive side, there are several electric cars and hybrid cars – that is among the things that are good. Therefore, there are many instruments to be put in place. The government is working on the follow-up. When we spend some time on it, it's because just setting new demands without knowing the consequences of the tools that are needed to meet these demands becomes unrealistic. The important thing is that we get the effect of what's happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e547	What we're talking about here is the limit values for particulate matter. It is also tempting to take a round of action by the government in terms of action, for local politicians themselves to ask for action to be taken, to which the Government of Erna Solberg refuses. But now leave it. The question here is what kind of standard we're going to set, and what kind of goal we're going to set in terms of air quality for Martin and all the others who suffer from contaminated air. Research shows that more sick people die here in Oslo than otherwise three to five days after the pollution in the form of particulate matter in the city has been high. There is not much to be done to set any limit values for what we think is acceptable. So we can spend a little more time on the measures. That a government that has promised to take action takes so long to respond to an alarming letter from its own offices, I think it is bad. A government that took this seriously would have responded to this within the time limits requested by the agencies. So I repeat my question: what in the world is the government doing, when it hasn't followed up this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e556	That the government spends a little over a year when the same agencies and investigators have spent three years on the basic material is actually not that long. If that's what the scale is, we can go back and see how many times the previous government spent a little longer time looking at what the criteria were, and we know that it was realistic. There's a lot that can be done around. Two cities in the country have, for example, heavy tyre prohibition. It contributes to this. It's important to ban high-decks. Trondheim took away his restraining order. This means that Oslo and Bergen take more local measures than, for example: Trondheim. It is important that we also have on the menu that something can be done today to reduce the amount of particulate matter. Then there are the big grips, such as investing in public transport – making sure fewer people buy cars. Also, the replacement of old cars into cars with a new standard, with lower emissions, is one of the most important measures in order to be able to operate in everyday life – and to provide clean furnaces, which means a replacement rate for e.g. stoves in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e567	Follow-up questions are given – first Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e570	Last year, 147 people died in road traffic, while the Environment Directorate estimates that in Norway about 1,500 people die each year from air pollution, despite the fact that we have a zero vision for both traffic deaths and deaths and suffering due to air pollution. When I hear the Prime Minister's answer, I understand that either she speaks against better knowledge, or she doesn't know the facts in this matter. When she claims that the economic consequences of what kind of action is possible before going into the new limit value, I just want to say that this is what the directorate has done. The report on what is harmful to health estimates a very low level of suspended particulate matter, while the report proposes and reviews all the measures that they consider to be socially viable. It therefore proposes a stepping up towards 2015 and towards: [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e578	We need to implement a number of measures to ensure that we reach the limit values. These include: to ensure that one replaces part of the buses on diesel and other. After all, the agreement reached between the four parties on the Stortinget, which is behind the government's budget, contributes to this. For example, when you have: have increased the investment in biogas and provided an incentive scheme for it, it helps to reduce emissions from diesel-powered buses. So that means we're going to have fewer emissions from these in the future. It is important that we see a link between the actions that need to be implemented before we set the limit values and that it is realistic to do so. That's what the government is doing. And even though we know what numbers are, we also have to look at how we can get through with the good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e587	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e590	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that there must be a link between objectives and instruments. Interestingly, today Oslo City Council adopts its action plan against local air pollution. It contains a key element in tackling acute pollution in the most polluted days of winter, namely the ban on diesel cars. It also adopted the Municipality of Oslo in 2012. Then it was stopped by the red-green government, including SV. The Stortinget has now decided to ask the government to look at measures that cities can get to reduce car transport on the most polluted days in winter. Then my question is: is the government going to come forward with proposals that will give cities the means they want, that is, the only thing that works, which is the ban on diesel cars on the most polluted days and the reversing possibilities for heavy transport on the most polluted days?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e597	It's just the kind of action and the consequences they have, we're spending a little time looking at. These are measures that will have a good impact on air. The alternative is e.g. the crisis measures put in place in Bergen, where one uses odd numbers and even numbers as a means of recording. It's a little bit less focused, but we have to look at the consequences this has. This relates in particular to commercial traffic, because there are most diesel cars in commercial traffic. That's the rounds of government going before we put forward the measures we're going to take. We're going to do that. We will go through this and conclude and then put forward measures that will enable municipalities to do something more about these emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e602	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e605	Nevertheless, it seems rather striking that the trades unions have spent three years in a thorough investigation, and that the government is then unable to make a recommendation on the introduction of limit values within one year. We're really talking about two different things here. We're talking about particulate matter, and then we're talking about NOx. There was NOx Elvesuen busy now in the line. In both areas, the government is in the situation that the Storting gets it in advance. The store deals with these matters without the government having submitted anything. We did that earlier this winter when it came to NOx, diesel cars and other instruments that the big cities need. The government is at risk of the Storting also doing in the case of particulate matter. The question then is, is it so difficult to set any goals without necessarily having the detailed instruments? However, they are to a large extent to be implemented by the municipalities, and they may also be slightly different from the municipality to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e621	There is a requirement for a government to have all the aspects of the decisions it takes, including the consequences it will have for the municipalities. It is clear that the existing investigation guidelines are a little less for Stortinget, and the Stortinget is free to decide what they want. The government is not free to skip steps in the process we think is necessary to investigate actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e626	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e629	I was a little uncertain as to whether I should use this question to answer the tenth of questions I received. But the questions in the questionnaire are probably best when the Prime Minister answers and the opposition asks. Air quality is an important topic, and luckily something has happened in the last year. Then you might think that I am running and boasting by the government now. I don't. On the contrary, part of what has happened has happened in this room against the will of the government parties – the rest of the Storting has gathered against the government. Now the same could be happening to particulate matter. It is quite correct, as Audun Lysbakken said in his question, this has now been in the department for over a year, and we are already too late, because the recommendation was that this should be introduced, for the first time from 1 January 2015, then from 1 January 2020. And all the measures requested by the Prime Minister are mentioned, including the financial costs, in the report. So my question to the Prime Minister is, when she gets the measures ahead, is it that she is initially positive to do something about this important problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e636	I'm very positive to do something to lower the limits of suspended particulate matter. I'm very positive that we're going to do something about the urban environment. I come from a family of many asthmatics, I know this is extremely difficult for people with asthma, and I know it's hard for people when the pollution gets high in a few days. But I also believe, as Prime Minister, that we should make proper case preparations, which also require investigation instructions and other requirements for us to do, and that we should address the consequences. It is often easy to say that because it is the municipalities that are going to implement things, we should take more lightly on our duty to investigate. I don't think so – I think we should. So to my little feedback on the previous question, if I may. I just want to say that if you feel that this Prime Minister is asking too many questions back on rhetorical attacks from the opposition, I would recommend reading the minutes from all the Question Time during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e643	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e647	I want to go back to what was our first question today, about the situation in the labour market. The Prime Minister says that the government follows the situation closely, and she also describes the long-term change that the government intends to implement in the Norwegian economy – well and well. I just got here from a meeting with the Norwegian Industry and the Shipowners Association. These organisations, which are not entirely insignificant in relation to the labour market, say that government forecasts have material misinformation in themselves. They believe that the situation out there is far worse, far more dramatic, than what the government is basing its forecasts on. They're very clear that the situation we're now going to face becomes much more brutal, that unemployment is going to rise, and that the order books are going to get even thinner in the future. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is this: if it turns out now that the forecasts and estimates and experiences of the Norwegian Industry, which the Shipowners' Association has, are more in line with reality than the forecasts of the government's direction of the country, what will the Prime Minister do to improve the situation in the labour market and for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e656	I would like to stress that when the Minister of Finance presented the revised national budget, she was very clear on one thing, and it was that there was great uncertainty about the forecasts of unemployment. We know we're in a shift. The AKUs are higher than the registered unemployment rates, it's a bigger gap than it's been for a long time. This may be due to short-term changes, and this may be due to the fact that there is a warning of a higher unemployment in the future, because many are on final packages and are looking for work. How many people end up as completely unemployed, we don't know – it depends on whether those who are looking for a job are getting new jobs before they are actually registered as completely unemployed. So it's not like we've been engaged to the figures in the revised national budget. On the contrary, we stress that they have a great deal of uncertainty about them. We're in a shift. Unemployment is increasing, particularly in Western countries, but there it is increasing so that it is now up against the national average, from an extreme shortage of labour to a similar level. In other states in this country, we have seen an increase in employment growth, as a result of what is the buffer in the Norwegian economy, namely the fact that the krone price is lower, that we have got a moderate wage settlement, and that the parties have taken responsibility in this situation. I have repeatedly praised them for that – it is important that they have done so. So the question is, what are the right measures? Yeah, so we're doing more on transportation. We're planning to do even more on transportation. It is an important measure to increase employment. We do it in particular in areas such as the maintenance page – it contributes to it. We contribute to the long-term transition by providing more money for research, development and innovation. We want to see if there are other measures that can help speed up the transition and that the new jobs are moving faster. Of course, 23rd concession rounds are incredibly important for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e665	I am pleased that the Prime Minister stresses that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the figures with which the government operates. In fact, I think it's already wise to prepare for the numbers and analyses that the Norwegian Industry, the Shipowners' Association and others are going to engage in their dialogue with the industry out there. Then I agree that the parties have done their part to help ensure that the competitive situation is good, and the interest rate is good. But anyway, we're in an immediate danger in a low economic cycle to lose important skills that Norwegian business is mainly focused on. It's about the yard industry, it's about the oil and service industry, etc. etc. Then my question is, can the Prime Minister be something more specific about what she and the government think if it turns out that the predictions that the Norwegian Industry and the Shipowners are operating on are correct? What action will the Prime Minister and the Government take to avoid the loss of important competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e672	One of the important things we do is to contribute more money to research, innovation and other ways of using that expertise in other areas. At the bottom, there is a transition where there will be a slightly lower level of investment in the years ahead than it has been. But then we have an additional economic challenge due to a lower oil price. So it's just that when we spend more money on road maintenance and other things, it helps to demand part of the skilled worker's skills that is needed. We contribute a relatively expansive budget this year, and it becomes interesting to hear what the Workers' Party itself thinks about its own alternative budget as they stated – they would have a slightly less expansive budget, because they thought we showed a lack of moderation in the harvest, and now they say that we are too late. So we came up with more in the autumn than the Workers' Party, and now it's too late and too little. It's not on your fingertips.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e679	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Per Rune Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e682	I Prop. 114 S for 2014-2015 on the extension of the Johan Sverdrup field is described as the outlook for the Norwegian petroleum industry. Some key numbers here: Existing fields globally will only stand for 40 pst. of the need for oil in 2040. 55 pst. of the Norwegian extractable oil and gas resources are still in the ground. From this point of view, there is no need to regard our main industry as a sunset industry. Oil price reductions and the adaptation of oil companies have led to a redundancies and a lot of redundancies in the industry that cause us to lose capacity and competence that we know we will need in a few years' time. Former Labour Party governments have introduced measures in similar situations. During this downturn, the government has rejected the proposals that we in the Workers' Party have made for measures to remedy and mitigate the capacity reduction and the loss of skills. Is this to be interpreted to mean that the government does not see the need for Norwegian industry to have the capacity and competence to take new activity growth when it comes in a few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e689	No, it's not. We do not think that the Labour Party has made any proposals that contribute to this. The things that have been heard largely from the Workers' Party are several places of action – we deliver them in the revised national budget – and then we have changed the rules of leave in line with the fact that the situation is different. The Labour Party has only kept up with the same policy over several years, both when it is cyclical and when it is cyclical. We think that it is better to adapt the instruments to how the labour market actually demands labour. Then I have to say that once we have presented 23rd concession rounds of new areas, which we hope the Workers' Party will help us actually realize, it will make us more optimistic. When we present TTOs that help to get more search areas, it contributes to a greater degree of activity in this industry. And then there's a readjustment to the maintenance projects within the industry now for example. to see if you can get down to a slightly lower cost level. I think there'll be more of it gradually, because there are limits to how long some of these companies can postpone maintenance tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e696	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e699	It's alarming to follow this question hour. A lot has happened since the government budget was presented in the fall. The analysis then was quite different from the situation we see today, with the big crisis in the oil industry, which sends shock waves into the Norwegian economy. Unemployment rate increased. The prognoses are uncertain, but everyone sees that we're going to meet a dark time. It also sees the government, but it does not change course. So, on my previous question about study places, the only initiative is 24 study places in deep water technology – not in ICT, not in health, education, etc. – or for the sake of the future industry. Earlier this spring, an association consisting of Abelia, Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Oil and Gas and Tekna came with a rather inexpensive but important initiative on technology transfer, as a "transferit." Not even the government will see room for it. What is the government's plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e710	The fact that there is a lower investment and a lower rate of oil and gas activity was known when we presented the budget in the autumn. That is why we also presented a budget adapted to the economic situation. So the oil price drop has made it more, that the growth has become lower, and that it's a change of pace, but that's not a whole new situation. And it's very important to remember that SV wanted this situation, where we're not going to have that high activity in the oil and gas business, but have less activity. So now, unfortunately, they do, with great consequences. I believe that deep-water technology is a future technology for Norway. When the government now invests in more places of study, it is among other things. because these places of study contribute to jobs in the business community in Florø, in Sogn and Fjordane, where others run a campaign to build up the county, while on the contrary we build up the county for the future. The oil and gas industry is not a sunset industry; it is going to be in Norway for 20–30 years, perhaps 50 years in the future, but at a slightly lower pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e717	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e721	This is probably a debate we come back to in many forms and in many contexts in the future. And it's clear that one of the answers that's important is the investment that needs to be made in new industries and in important industries. Some of the opposition's criticisms are also that too little of that is targeted at the new industries. One of the new industries is renewable energy, and the Prime Minister has also expressed the government's commitment to this initiative. Recordmange has applied for and received a concession for the development of new energy, and we have a green certificate market. Nevertheless, the government only chooses to go halfway: when one then increases the tax credits, one only does it for wind power, not technology neutral, not for the whole industry – for what could also be other forms of energy. In addition, concerns are expressed to us that the electricity charge is now increasing, because an increasing proportion of the cost to people on the energy side is, of course, charges and not the power price.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e735	I believe that we should provide good measures aimed at strong industries in Norway. So let's do that. That is why we have important research programmes within the Research Council that are just going to industries where we are strong, both in maritime and marine industries, to exploit it. Also for mineral production and other things, we have programs, and we work in relation to it. But then we are concerned that broad, good framework conditions are important. This is why we have been committed to creating research programmes and strengthening the research programmes that everyone can use, for example. BIA funds and NETWORK 2020. We don't know where. We know that ICT is important to stimulate in Norway, and it is part of enabling technology programmes. At the same time, we know that ICT goes into all sorts of other areas. Then it is important to have nutrient-oriented research areas that are general, that all enterprises can use and that all start-ups can use. Then we get the most out of new ideas and new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e740	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e743	When countries experience low economic activity and growing unemployment, different and complex factors can often arise. In Norway, the reason is the price of one commodity, which has fallen. Then the answer that the Prime Minister gives to the former replicants, that part of the answer now to be given, is a more expansive budget, which is financed by more oil money, and that's the 23rd concession round. Then my question becomes: when Norway as a welfare society, as an economy, is so dependent on one commodity, on one individual industry – is it a political goal for the government, through political action, that one should become less dependent on the price of one commodity, or should one let it sue and go and bet that something else comes up afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e750	There's nothing in government's policy about letting it go. We are concerned with the long-term challenges and the long-term transition. We are concerned to ensure that we convert through a green shift. We are concerned with the very mechanisms that contribute to a diversity of new ideas and that we can help to create more entrepreneurial, more entrepreneurship and to develop industries. This does not mean that the oil and gas industries will not be important in the future. But we've said that they're not going to have such a big part of our growth in the future. We have to pick up the growth of the Norwegian economy from other areas. However, much of the employment remains related to oil and gas activities. Many of our jobs and our economy are going to be related to this. We'll be less dependent in the years to come if we can succeed in the other policy areas. But we're going to be more dependent, even with lower activity, if we can't establish the new, good framework conditions for other parts of the business. That's why I think it's important to be able to have two thoughts in my head at once: we're going to have oil and gas business, but we're also going to create something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e759	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e771	There will be one change in the set question list. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sverre Myrli to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e786	This question, from the representative Sverre Myrli to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e789	Then I interpret it to that point that it must now end spontaneity. [[Laughter]] Does the Council consider that the German documentation requirements are relevant to Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e798	As the representative Myrli refers to, Germany introduced on 1 January this year new rules on statutory national minimum wages. In Norway, we have, among other things: the public policy. It is the Labour Inspectorate that follows that rule. There are also clear demands in terms of both information, liability and not least solidarity – in the legislation we have. I record that in Norway we have opted for public service, in Germany the minimum wage has been chosen, and there are two very different systems. With regard to the documentation requirements that Germany has, I will be honest enough to say that I do not know all of them well enough. I'm recording there's a debate going on. I also record that Germany has received some criticism from the EU about the documentation requirements that have been used. I think it's interesting to follow that debate. What is important to me is to make sure that we get good rules, which are easy for the Labour Inspectorate to enforce, and which makes it easy to pick out those who are unprofessional, and keep the serious ones. I am pleased that the subject of tariffs has now been publicised in the transport and freight sectors, and that there is a better follow-up to it, so that it is the same information requirements that lie in both the care and solidarity obligations of that sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e807	I interpret the answer positively from the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. I think we have a common point of view here, and everyone wants to contribute to finding solutions. That was not the German solution to the minimum wage that was my main score. My main point was that the system they have in Germany makes them have a system with strict documentation requirements. So the next question is whether the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is also positive to the creation of a separate mission register, where driving tasks inside and out of the country and cabotage tasks are registered and made available to the control authorities, as is done in Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e812	Firstly, I am aware that Germany has good documentation requirements, where non-resident carriers have to be approved in advance when entering the country, and that there is also a need to provide evidence of pay and working conditions when entering Germany. In the case of having the same documentation requirements in Norway or not, the Minister for Transport is responsible for cabotage. I see that we are running an industry programme for the transport sector. I believe it is important in that industry programme to discuss with the parties how to achieve a good system, which is easy to comply with, which makes it easy to take the unprofessional, and which makes it easy to be serious. I believe that it is through the sectoral programme that we should also develop instruments. First, I think it's important now to sit down and look at how publicisation will turn on, and how it will work in practice, before you come up with new things.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e821	Now my original question was about the German documentation requirements and what to do with it. That is why I had also asked the question to the Minister for Transport. It is entirely unproblematic for me that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs answers. He has overall responsibility for this. In addition, the Minister of Transport is present, so I do not expect this to be a big problem. We are going to have international driving missions and cabotage to a large extent also in time to come. There is nothing wrong with it if it happens under neat pay and working conditions and according to the applicable laws and regulations. That's what's the challenge, which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is also well aware of. Then we must have good control bodies, such as the State Road Administration, the police, the customs services and the Labour Inspectorate, and these control bodies must cooperate. In addition – and that is the point of my question – we need to have good recording mechanisms. Then I ask the question: What registration and control mechanisms does the Council of State see?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e830	When it comes to registration, I am not able to answer it now. I have to get back to that. Point 1: The Government is engaged in combating illegal cabotage operations. Point 2: We just got an industry program. I think it is important that, together with the parties, the appropriate instruments are found for Norwegian conditions in the Norwegian transport sector through that industry programme. Point 3: I think it is important to have – and this government has been committed to – more coordinated supervision between the Labour Inspectorate, the tax administration and the police, which can also be done against the transport sector. That's a priority problem. I think it is important now to look at the means we are using. The fact that we also got publicized in the transport sector on 11 May is positive too soon, is positive. We should follow up on the tools we have today and see if they are sufficient. Then I'm ready to come up with new tools if that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e845	‘Tuesday 12 May, there was probably a race across both the line and the E16 in the Waksdal. Since the turn of the millennium, 260 races have passed on the E16 between Bergen and Voss. Nearly 40 times this has resulted in all traffic being stopped, as well as parts of the roadway have been connected about 30 times. Frequent breeds create great insecurity for travellers, delays and problems of freight transport. What are the Government’s progress plans for new, safe roads and pathways between Bergen and Voss, and what short-term measures are being taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e852	Let me first thank you for the question. It's a very important topic that's being addressed. Traffic safety, whether on the road or rail, is very, very important to us. It also applies regardless of whether it is due to the behaviour of road users or whether there is an accident on the part of nature. Making sure that both Bergen and Voss and E16 railways on the same route are safer and better is important to us – both in terms of road safety and travel time. The potential here to develop the region is very great. I have also, within the 19 months I have been the Council of State, been in this area five times, taken trains Bergen–Voss and Voss–Bergen and drove a car on the route. I know, and have experience, what challenges exist, both in terms of the situation on the road, and in terms of the risk to race. A concept selection investigation has recently been developed, in cooperation between the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration, which has outlined different solutions, ranging from doing very little to doing something very comprehensive. The project, if one takes the largest option that has been recommended, is very expensive. In the quality assurance process, however, the consultants have recommended that a person choose the simplest solution and hardly do anything. For me, that's not a good option. That is why we have started a work, which the Railway Agency is now carrying out, to look at various ways in which it can find good solutions – within a cost framework that I believe the Storting will also accept – in order to get these problems solved in the best possible way. This work is in progress right now. The national transport plan for the current ten-year period does not propose to take any action to change either road or rail. That's not good enough. That's why we're doing this job very thoroughly, but also at a certain pace. More grips have been introduced in the short term. This government has accelerated railway maintenance and renewal work. We have also increased the appropriations for the maintenance of the road, and we are ahead of the form for the granting of racial protection. In the Road Service Action Programme for this four-year period, a need of around 100 million has been identified. kr for actions on E16 between Voss and Arna. These are measures in the form of ground protection, bolting, nets and fencing. It is also announced that you may need a radar monitoring and signalling warning system. During this four-year period, around 120 million have been committed on rail. kr for racial protection and the increase in appropriations compared to 2013. It's added up to around 270 million. kr for renewal of the railway and, in addition, about 30 million. kr for preventive maintenance of the Voseban. So that's going to happen a lot. It won't be a final solution that will make a sheep change the lines, but it will make it better and safer year after year than it has been. But as I said, this is not a final solution. We're working on that through the KVU work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e871	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and for understanding the challenges you feel very much about this route, both in terms of road and track. Many are now, understandably, very impatient to have a safe path between Bergen and Voss. The concept evaluation on the table of the Minister of Transport was shown. I understand the arrangements that have been made, but I also wonder – I guess it's been about a year since this was over – what time the council expects you to come to a solution to what project you're going into when it comes to new roads and paths on the route.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e878	As far as the KVU work is concerned, it is correct: it was submitted last year. So it takes a certain amount of time with quality assurance. This government is concerned that such things should go faster, but we have not yet reformed that system, and therefore it has taken the time it takes. Then, when we've looked at the two different points of view that are completely broken – from doing nothing to doing everything – we have to do a more thorough job here, because in the light of all the other things that have to be done on the road and rail, it is important that we present projects that we believe the Storting will also vote yes and grant money. Having good plans does not help if they are pushed all the way out into the national transport plan. The work that the Railway Agency is now doing, they have started. They're expecting it to take a few more months, so that means they'll probably come back to us sometime after the summer, so that we'll get additional information and go on to figure out how to get good grips that provide long-term benefits and that are cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e885	I'm wondering if it might be appropriate to start a phased development of a new path and a new path, which I see has been launched as a way of ensuring that at least the worst sections can become racially safe. I also wonder: no matter what time new paths and roads come, years will pass, and, in the meantime, immediate action is also needed. I read that a lot of resources are in there, and that you can do little with the resources you have to consult. But there's a mapping of 29 racially dangerous areas, and one major action on that list is a new superstructure right where this crash went. It'll cost over 100 million. kr, for which they do not have money today. Is it relevant to give something extra in the meantime, while we are waiting for a new path, or do the Council of State think it should be done within the budget funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e892	It is not impractical to look at solutions and re-priorities, and today's government, through the Christian People's Party and the Left, has received so much funding for both road and rail that we have been able to speed up a number of projects. Then it's also important to look at what's possible to get purely physical. Some things are not planned well enough, and we have to look at what it has to do with the consequences for the operation of the railway and the road. But we're positive to look at this. What I'm concerned about is that when we do the grip, it should have a long-term utility and not be something that lasts for a few years, and then has a wrap around the road. Now we know that part of today's E16, almost no matter how you add the new one, will still be a local road. In this way, it'll be of long-term use to secure it because it'll still be used. I'm also positive to look at the piecewise expansion when it makes sense. Initially, I want to build out long distances, because then one more is left for the money, but it is also possible to imagine that one does reasonable projects that do not look at the whole route Voss–Bergen at once, but that look at long distances, for example. especially around the Vaksdal area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e905	‘Espeland Prison Camp is the last remaining Naziyleir from World War II. In 2014, the Stortinget decided to transfer the camp to the Espeland Foundation, which is responsible for disseminating the history of the camp based on hard work. The camp has not been maintained for the past 30 years, and the foundation needs about an annual period. Two million. operating and maintenance crowns. Will the Council of State contribute to the entry of the Espeland Prison Camp Foundation into the State budget and to the visibility of operations and means of maintenance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e912	Espeland prison camp has a special position in Norwegian prison history from the occupation period during World War II. The facility has eight out of ten original wrecks that were built during the war. This site documents an important element in the history of the occupations of the West and Norway. There will be fewer physical traces from the wartime in Norway. It is important to keep the remaining cultural memories. It is therefore very gratifying that Espeland was saved last year through the National Defense Plan of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This is a recognition of the qualities of this cultural memory. In 2015 we also celebrated 70 years ago the end of World War II. The cultural memory of the war is one of the most important efforts of the cultural memory authorities this year. I am aware that since its establishment in 2000, the Espeland Foundation has done a great deal of work to reconstruct, preserve and build a living museum and centre of expertise related to prison history and peacemaking. I'm familiar with the foundation's ongoing dialogue with the Museum Vest for a consolidation. War, occupation and human rights are one of the areas of activity of the Museum Vest. It will therefore be natural and professionally appropriate to continue to work towards linking Espeland prisoner camp against the Museum West. Hordaland County Municipality and Bergen Municipality have also given positive signals about this consolidation in their museum plans. By date, the Ministry of Culture has not received an application for measures relating to Espeland camp. On the other hand, we are aware that there is a significant lag in the maintenance of the camp, which the representative also explained on his question. This will require resources. Where State aid to Espeland is to be assessed, an application must be made to that effect. The application must, of course, be assessed in a regular manner in preparation for the following year's budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e929	I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for his answer. It's just that in the 20 years that the state has spent figuring out what to do with the camp, and what future the camp would have, no maintenance has been done. It was a fare report on the camp that described the clothing that was the rat, the electrical system that had to be replaced, the roof that leaked and the drain system that is in danger of breaking down. It's assumed that it'll cost about 30 million. to get this done. Consolidation or neither is it clear that there are significant means to enable this camp to fulfil its function as a good museum and dissemination centre. Can we hope that appropriations for this sector will be strengthened overall in the budget that comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e934	As far as the budget is concerned, we are going to have a discussion about it when the budget is being promoted. However, a key condition for being assessed in a budgetary context is at least that an application has been sent, and that application has not been received. If State aid is to be assessed for increased maintenance, it is important to have also promoted an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e939	Thanks for the answer. There are, as the Council of State had in mind, very many physical memories of the war that are being preserved on a duel basis by enthusiastic people around the country. Would it be natural to have a kind of national plan for how to take care of these memories, and not least how to finance it, how to operate it, and which facilities should be prioritised for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e946	First of all, I just want to pay tribute to all the many volunteers who are actually contributing, not only in order to preserve cultural memories of the war, but also in regard to a lot of other museum work around the country. It's a very important work, and for the authorities, it's important to stress that of course you want more of that. Without a strong voluntary presence in this work, costs would have been even higher. I'm somewhat uncertain about whether you need any national level, there's not so many of these measures in terms of cultural memories from the war, which need to be taken care of, but once again I stress that a prerequisite for considering whether to grant something must be at least that there are some applications. With regard to the museum sector in general, there is a huge backlog for the maintenance of all the museums around the country, and that is something the government considers to be an overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e957	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The Government has sent to the hearing a new regulation on parental payment in kindergartens. It proposes a free core time scheme for four- and five-year-olds in families with an annual income of less than NOK 405 000. In Oslo, in some urban areas with integration challenges, there has been a free core time for everyone independent of income since 2007. The consultation note states that this scheme will be terminated from 2016/2017. Governments have previously praised the results of free core time for all. Will the Governments reconsider the winding-up of the scheme?»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e966	In some parts of Oslo, integration challenges have been free core time for everyone, regardless of income, since 2007. The result of this experiment has been so successful that the government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, is now introducing a nationwide free core time system. Participation in kindergarten is generally high among four- and five-year-olds, but participation is slightly lower among children with migrant backgrounds. About 93 pst. of all four- and five-year-olds with a minority background are currently in kindergarten. Many in this group also live in low-income families. With the new national scheme, the government will ensure that the vast majority of four- and five-year-olds receive a kindergarten offer, including children in low-income families. The scheme will be enshrined in the Regulation on parental payment in kindergartens, for which the Minister of Knowledge is responsible. Free core time in kindergarten has been and is an important part of the state's contribution to the area operation in Groruddalen and in Oslo Sør, Søndre Nordstrand. There have also been attempts at free core time in the city of Old Oslo, Bergen and Drammen. The structure of the experiment has been slightly different with regard to age groups, parental income and parental activity obligations. From the autumn of 2014, a pilot project was also introduced with a more targeted device of the trial of free core time in some areas of Bergen, Drammen and Old Oslo. The attempt is directed against children in low-income families, and parental activity is also required, in line with the government's platform. Experience will be summarised during the year. All four- and five-year-olds in Groruddalen and Oslo Sør are offered free core time, regardless of the income of their parents. This scheme will continue the contract period for the regionalisation, 2016 and 2017 respectively. No decision has yet been taken on the possible continuation of the area deployment in Oslo since 2016 and 2017. Oslo, Bergen and Drammen may also apply for funds for trials and development measures to facilitate activities for parents and the recruitment of children to kindergarten. The three municipalities may also apply for funds for the transfer of experience and information to other municipalities relating to the national scheme for four- and five-year-olds. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity recently issued a circular on funding for the second half of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e981	I thank you for your answer. It is true that if you do it as it says in the consultation note – that is, if the free core time scheme for everyone in the districts in which it is in force, phased out, phased out – will have a major impact. For example, in Søndre Nordstrand, there are 1,030–1 040 children who have free core time today. If you set the income limit to $405000, it's going to be about $890 that will fall out of that scheme. It is clear that in the falling out group, there will be many with a family income of between 405000 kroner and up to 6000000 – 700000 kroner – where it will mean a lot to get the increased cost of kindergarten. In the past, the kindergarten coverage was there about 70 p.m., before you got free core time. Is the Council of State prepared to consider continuing the free core-time scheme for all in areas with special inclusion challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e990	First of all, I am very pleased that we have now set up a free core time system for everyone in the whole country with low income. It will help a lot of parents and families who have low incomes to get an offer of kindergarten that they haven't had before. It is important from an integration perspective, and it is important for the children concerned, who then have better assumptions when they start school. Then I am very happy to say to the representative that the area bet that is in Oslo will continue for everyone who lives in that area, at least in 2016 and 2017, and the government will then come back to the follow-up. It's a collaboration that we have with the Municipality of Oslo. Then I've met those municipalities that want us to have a better device on it with free core time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e997	I also thank you for the additional reply. Governments have previously visited the Groruddalen and praised the system of free core time and its results, and Vice-Chancellors boast that children now have better language skills. It's a very important assumption that this has to do with all the children, that it's not going to be as small a number as families that have income below 405000 kroner. There are very few families who have such a small total income, even if you go to social security, etc., it quickly exceeds that. For us, it's important that we all have children together, that we learn from each other. That effort is also important in making areas attractive, changing relocation patterns, etc. in these places in the country where we have special inclusion challenges. I would strongly urge the Council of State to follow this up and review what is in the consultation note on winding-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1006	I can assure the representative that this will be followed up closely, and the change that has been made since the fall of the year will give us an evaluation during the year. I have also met the municipalities of Oslo, Bergen and Drammen to meet the wishes of those municipalities, where they want to sharpen and target the free core time more than what has been done before. It was done from the fall of 2015, but at the same time we now get a national scheme that will benefit more children, which is very important to bring with them. Then I want to make it clear that all four- and five-year-olds in Groruddalen and Oslo Sør are offered free core time regardless of their parents' income. It's a plan that's going to continue out that term of the contract, so it's going to ensure the bet that's in those parts of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1017	It's nice to talk to the Minister of Justice about something nice: ‘The Government has granted 3 million. kr to animal police in 2015. When evidence is secured and more cases are investigated, more complex animal-crime cases will also be brought to justice, and witnesses will be obtained. In addition, the new animal police should have the opportunity to acquire knowledge and study rights to countries such as the United States and England, where they have experience in tactical investigations into animal-crime cases. How much animal police think we get for $3 million. kr, and can we expect a stepping up of funds for animal police in 2016?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1026	As the representative is aware, the government is concerned that crime affecting animals should be taken more seriously. That is why the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I set up a working group to work to strengthen cooperation between the police and the Food and Drug Administration. That working group presented its report at the end of April, entitled Pilot project Tierekrim in the South-Trundelag police district. The main focus of the working group has been to describe the best possible cooperation model for the police districts and the Food Authority locally and to strengthen joint work on animal welfare crime. I have commissioned the Police Directorate to launch the pilot project in South Trøndelag police districts in line with the recommendations in the report. The zoology team will consist of both investigator and lawyer and work closely with the environmental coordinator. At the same time, at local level, the Food Authority establishes its own crimping team to cooperate with the Animal Crime Group in the police. This is a test project which will last for three years and will be evaluated along the way. It has therefore been important to ensure that the project does not go beyond other police work, and therefore the government has proposed additional funding of 3 million. kr to the project in 2015. The aim of the project is therefore to develop the best possible system and good practices for the treatment of animal crime, so that serious crime against animals leads to criminal proceedings and convictions. In addition to the pilot project, a cooperation agreement has been concluded between the police and the Food Authority in general aimed at strengthening cross-border cooperation in the fight against animal welfare crime. In this way, the money is meant to finance this pilot in such a way that one will reap the positive experience that I suppose that project will give, to see if this can be further developed. Budgetary discussion in view of what is being prioritised in 2016, we almost have to engage in the budgetary processes for 2016, but I would like to stress that although this animal police project is now in the South-Trunde Team and is concentrated on South-Trundelag police districts, it does not mean that there is no focus around this in the other police districts. This cooperation agreement, which is an innovation in the cooperation between the Food Authority and the police, will help to raise this focus throughout the country. Then I have to say in the end that I also believe that the experience that one will gradually reap from the project in the South-Trøndelag will help motivate other police districts to prioritize these matters even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1037	On the part of the Greens, we would like to praise the government, and not least the Progress Party, for promoting this animal testing project, and we are, of course, concerned that this should be a lasting promise of competence for the police and for the cooperation around the police with the Food Authority and other agencies. We have understood that this has been a real negotiation case between the Progress Party and the Right, where the Right has not been as enthusiastic as the Progress Party might have been. That's why we're committed to getting the most clear political confirmation that this is a project that you're actually going to pursue, in addition to a trial project. So I'm going to go a little further and ask if the Minister of Justice can confirm that this is a system that will underpin a lasting increase in efforts to fight crime against animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1044	Let me first say that there is an overall government that is behind this animal-crime campaign in the South-Trundellag and the pilot project. The point of this is that one should be able to gain experience on the basis of which one should implement this not only in the South Trøndelag but also in other police districts. It is also useful to look up to the forthcoming police reform, where one will have a different police district structure with strengthened environments of competence and larger areas, which means that there is an even more up-to-date way of organising this work, precisely because today there is a big difference between how many of the kinds of things come to the police. Some districts have very few of these things. At national level, there are also relatively few. I think this project will contribute to more, because one sees that these are matters that are now being taken seriously, that are being investigated, that are being corrected, that end up in judgment. Then I can't pre-shoot the result after the pilot project scheme, but this is something we believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1053	I believe in the Minister of Justice's belief in this project, and the government, and that's very good. The Green Party has set aside 20 million. kr in our alternative state budget because we believe that this is a type of business that needs a serious effort, significantly beyond 3 million. kr. We respect that this is a pilot project, but at the same time we're a little concerned that such a limited amount of money will help to make the result not so good that you want to roll it on. The last thing we need is an animal police system that's being scrapped because -- in practice -- the pilot project didn't get enough money. A little personal question will then be: Will the Minister of Justice here confirm that he will personally work for this project to continue in 2016, despite the fact that there is a resource situation in 2015 that is so limited that there will necessarily have to be some limited results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1062	State Council Anundsen is given the opportunity to answer a personal question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1065	I think I will answer on behalf of the government, and the government is concerned that this will be a project that will succeed. We believe that we set the framework for a successful project. Then I agree that one must make sure that one does not get into the situation that, for example. lack of resources shall contribute to the failure of a pilot project. That is why we have now secured these additional funds. It could have been an alternative to ask for it to be funded within the existing framework. We have not done that, both to ensure that one has to have this fixed funding, and also to ensure that it does not go at the expense of other tasks. The commitment of the Progress Party and this Council of State is strong for this animal police trial, and I also feel that the government is very concerned that this will succeed. I still cannot conclude until the project phase is over, but evaluation will be carried out both in the course and in the end, and that means that an en route in this project will also receive signals if there is something missing, or things that should have been done differently. Then you can correct it before the project phase is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1074	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-20.ana.ud745e1087	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
