ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e15	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e18	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representative of Marit Arnstad and myself on the location of the main seats in the new police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e23	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e37	The President refers to the adopted debate from yesterday and we are continuing the debate of the throne with Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It opens up a line change limited to 13 lines after the Prime Minister’s posts. The President will propose that the 13 lines be arranged in this way: the Labour Party five lines, the Christian People's Party two lines, the Central Party two lines, the Left two lines, the SV one line and the Green Party one line. Those who sign up on the list of speakers will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e44	Fifty years after the oil adventure started, and after a long period of oil activity being the engine of our economic growth, it now seems to be agreed that we are facing a period of economic transformation – not because the oil industry will not be important for Norway in the future, but because other industries will have to bear more of the growth impulses of Norwegian society. It's a big change. It requires political priorities if the transition is to succeed, so that we will continue to maintain employment and value creation in the future. That is the basis for the welfare of the future. The transformation we are in is about. It requires offensive action in various areas. It requires investment in infrastructure. It requires a commitment to knowledge in school. It requires increased investment in research. It requires investment not only with money, but also with measures that increase quality, and measures that increase productivity in our economy and in all our social sectors in the future. We can be glad that things are going better in many areas. The University of Oslo made a jump at Times Higher Education ranking of the world's best universities. But we cannot settle down when we see that both Finland and Denmark are on the list, and that Sweden has three universities that all score better than our best. So it requires an increase in research, but also an increase in innovation. The EU Innovation Union Scoreboard 2015 tells us that we have a job to do. A 16th place in Europe we have to worry about, because the world is in a raging development. In building new future-oriented jobs, both on the basis of today's businesses and also in new areas, we need to be better than 16th place in Europe on innovation. We need completely new forms of work. We need completely new areas in addition to those we already have. In industry, more automation, digitisation, 3D printing and tailoring for each customer can rapidly change and be the new revolutions, as information technology has been for the past 30 years. We have to be in the front line – we have to step up our sleeves, we have to become more innovative and more competitive in all areas of our economy. These are priorities that the non-socialist majority on the Grand Duchy has shown the ability and the will to do, and that the government will continue next year. Tax is also important in this image. Since the tax reform in 1992, we have had a stable tax system that works essentially well. Now it is necessary to adapt the tax system to the new international trends. We need a tax system that better protects the Norwegian tax base and that finances our welfare systems in the future, which promotes investment for growth and employment in the long term, which quickly promotes work and activity in the face of the increased unemployment we are now seeing. This is possible to achieve at the same time as we ensure that it carries the heaviest bar with the strongest back. Wide opening up our tax system will contribute to stability and make Norway an attractive country for investment. I would therefore like to invite the Stortinget to a broad agreement on the tax reform, which we shall be tabling tomorrow. We have to point out a direction for the transition, and I especially want to bring forward two essential considerations. We have to convert to a business structure that is climate friendly. It's important for the planet's climate. But it is also important that we have jobs that are competitive as climate policy tightens up around the world. On the other hand, the consideration must also be that we get a society of small differences. We want a work life that is even more inclusive, which also has room for those who can't deliver 100 pst, and that gives a new chance to those who have got a hole in the CV. These reasons have to shape how we set up our instruments. We are now seeing an increasing unemployment in particular in the South-West. Although other parts of the country are doing well, there is evidence that the unemployment rate is spreading too. The government has therefore announced that we will promote a budget for work, activity and conversion. We're going to put in extra measures where the unemployment rate is going to be the hardest. Losing a job can be serious for the individual, and especially if you stay unemployed for a long time. Where unemployment is growing a lot, we are willing to put in place measures to link free hands to unresolved tasks in society. At the same time, exceptional measures against unemployment must be temporary and easy to reverse when the labour market normalises. That's what the government is adding up to. Our long-term goal must be to have more profitable jobs in the private sector, which can provide the economic basis needed to finance the world's best welfare society for our children, too, when entering the labour market. The government will strengthen the social security network in our society. The waiting time for health care treatment is falling. We're about to reverse the increase in waiting time that took place under the previous government. In particular, waiting time before drug treatment is reduced. The government has developed a strategy to counteract children’s experience of growing up in poverty and to help prevent poverty from inheriting the next generation. We have set up a moderating system, so that the parental payment does not stand in the way that the children who need the most kindergarten have an opportunity to go there. It is important to ensure the safety of the elderly and caregivers. Under this government, local government applications for grants for the development of nursing homes and day care facilities have almost doubled. We have strengthened our work with basic skills in the workplace. We have reintroduced support for dyslexic data equipment, which was cut by the previous government. These are all examples of how political priorities from the government and the cooperation parties produce concrete results for some of the most vulnerable. We are also facing some major challenges in the future. At the conference against extremism in Oslo before the summer, a young Norwegian somalist named Ibrahim Abukar took the floor. He said the following: what happens in a little corner of the world will affect us all. So let's start working together. A week ago, the UN High Level Meeting took place in New York. Rarely have so many of the world's leaders been gathered. On the one hand, there was a great deal of positivity: the consensus on new sustainability goals, the road to the Paris climate summit and the increase and commitments of UN peacekeeping operations. On the other hand, the discussion was marked by the fact that poverty, war and conflict have led to record numbers of people fleeing. Just after I returned, I visited the Foreign Affairs Department of the police on Tøen. My journey from New York to Tøen went quite quickly, safely and efficiently. But the journey for many others shows how right Ibrahim Abukar had. What is happening in Syria and in the countries around it affects the major acts and policies of New York. But it also affects a small family who have grown weary after a far more rigorous and dangerous journey than mine, and who thanked for the way they had been accepted. The flight inflow affects us all. It also affects the staff of the police’s foreign service, who had to improvise and find solutions quickly. It affects volunteers, who have made a wonderful effort. It affects Europe, the EU and Schengen cooperation and the functioning of the EU's external borders. When the government put its last hand on the government budget, it was based on projections from the June-July calculation committee. Now we see a completely different picture. At the end of July, about 300 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. In mid-August, this had increased to about 600 a week, in mid-September to 1,200. Last week more than 1,500 asylum seekers arrived. In the light of the developments we are now in, I can inform you that the government will promote an additional number for the 2016 draft budget. We're going to have to rust the entire receiver to handle the asylum flow at a completely different level than before. New forecasts will soon be completed. Preliminary estimates by the authorities involved are that in 2015 there will be 23 000, and in 2016 the level is likely to be even higher. Many of those who come now are young men, and we must expect applications for family reunification from those who stay. Overall, this will represent a significant number of people, people to be treated, either to be in Norway and integrated into a Norwegian community, or to be returned to their country of origin. We have seen that it has been very demanding for the department to provide enough capacity. A particular challenge has been the registration of the Foreign Affairs Department of Oslo. The rooms of PU are an office room, and although the capacity has initially been good, it is not dimensioned to handle an inflow that we see now. Already on 4 September, the Ministry of Justice and Defence gave instructions to the UDI to provide a single accommodation offer, and hotels near PU on Tøenen have been used for this purpose. Work was also started on a better form of registration of asylum seekers. It'll be in place soon, and that's absolutely necessary. The new pre-transit reception facility will have capacity for about 1000 overnight stays. Here asylum seekers shall receive food, clothing and necessary health care before being registered and transferred to transit receptions and regular receptions. UDI has offered 7 500 asylum reception points in line with their mandates. Of the 163 employees of PU who now work with registration, 78 are employed after the supplementary proposal was made. The government has chosen to go beyond its powers and to hire them before the Storting has dealt with the appropriations, in order to ensure that this does not stop. The government’s additional proposal for 2015 proposes increased staffing for the registration of asylum seekers, strengthening the UDI, increasing housing in municipalities and increasing mental health spending. There are important measures to manage the influx of asylum. We have also increased the appropriations for refugee measures in Serbia and Macedonia and proposed increased appropriations for refugees inside Syria and neighbouring countries. A further increase was agreed in the context of the revised national budget. The government has initiated a donor country conference for refugees in Syria and neighbouring countries. It is expected that the conference will take place in January. Norway has also signaled our intention to be part of the EU relocalisation programme, as part of making the EU's external borders work better. There can be no doubt that Norway will take and take a significant responsibility for refugees both at home and outside, but we need to be fully aware that this poses challenges in the long term. There will be a need for significant efforts both in terms of resources and in other ways in the coming years. It requires us to maintain the support and willingness shown so far, and we need to think thoroughly through all the challenges. As the representative Hareide pointed out yesterday, a large number of newcomers are likely to cause more children to grow up in poor families and larger differences. This will make housing, integration and work important. I look forward, with as great challenges as this is going to lead to for the Norwegian community, that we have a good dialogue with the Storting on the issues. It is important for the refugee situation and for Norway to deal with it, because it will be one of the biggest challenges facing Norwegian society in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e101	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e104	The Prime Minister referred to the economic situation in Norway. We should remind ourselves that many countries still want to trade with Norway. We have a starting point with qualified people, great confidence in the population and ability to change. I want to focus a little on the 120 000 — the number is rising — which is now available, the highest figure we have had over 20 years, and with a particularly alarming situation for young people. The working party has believed that the government has come after, with too little delay. The Permitting Code is an illustration: First, there was a reversal when the government took over, and then there was a constant message from the employer/employee to do something about it, precisely because companies want to take care of their skills rather than have to cancel it. It happened in the revised version. The Workers' Party has now made a proposal to extend the leave period because companies report that there is a need. The Prime Minister calls it locking up the workforce. Can she elaborate what she means by that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e111	I fully agree that it is important to do something about the 120 000 who are unemployed, the some and eighty thousand who are registered unemployed, and to ensure that they are met with good measures. The most important measure is to ensure that there are more jobs. It's the main focus of the government's budget, where we focus on work, activity and conversion, and then offering jobs is more important than offering measures, or offering people a longer leave. However, with regard to the issue of permitting legislation, when the parties addressed the government, the government responded positively to a change in the stipulation of leave in wage settlement. We carried this out in the revised national budget, and then we have come back to a situation where the permitting legislation is at a level that has also been experienced in the past when labour market difficulties have occurred. As regards the question, today the social partners do not have the same consensus. Both the operation and the NHO are as busy as the government that it may lead to locking effects to increase the permitting rules too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e118	What I'm responding to is this automatic association between being on leave is not getting to work, it's not creating a job. What I meet in many of the companies I visit is that they can wait for better times for what they've been doing, and they can change to do new things with the skills they have. The competence is at the heart of the company's business, and then it's to be able to take care of that competence not to lock them in, it's to prevent them from being locked out, and it's to be positioned so that the better time can come. Kværner på Stord hopes that there will be better times in the industry for which they specialize — and they are preparing for other types of tasks. But the key in what they do is that they have competent employees. So I hope that the proposal we have put forward here, to extend the period of leave to 52 weeks – as we did in 2009, when unemployment was lower, it was a temporary measure, it was reversed in 2012 when unemployment sank – is something that can meet wide up here in the hall and be adopted. I feel that this is a message we get from both the employee and the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e125	I have also said in the past that we will come back and give an assessment of the proposal that has been put forward, when the Stortinget asks for an assessment by the government of its potential impact, and what is the government's position on it. But to say that it is not a challenge in a transition period that labour is kept in one sector, which might be used in another sector – I think we have quite good evidence of it from previous rounds of the permitation code: we have seen that companies that had demand for labour did not get it, while the same competence was in the permitting elsewhere. That's this limit we have to figure out. Where the frontier goes, there will always be a discussion about, it will depend on where the labour market is. However, rejecting that it is a challenge to allow people to be allowed to walk for a long time if there is a demand for the same labour force elsewhere – then you delay the transformation that must take place in our society, and that is a challenge for Norwegian society and long-term well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e130	My point is that we are going to need measures for those who become unemployed, especially for the young, and here the government has been late. But on to another theme: I agree with the Prime Minister's description of the situation we are now facing with regard to refugees. I think we're going to assume that we're actually at a time gap. The figures now referred to by the Prime Minister blow up a lot of the planning perspectives for the UDI, the foreign administration, and we are facing what the Prime Minister describes as a great deal, and so we have to deal with that. We must contribute to the European legislation on external borders, on identity, on return, and we must take care of the institution of asylum. And then we have to support the municipalities. It is in the municipalities that people should live, that is where they should be integrated, learn language, get into work. I hope that here in Stortinget – the Workers' Party will contribute – we can have as broad a response as possible to a policy to enable the municipalities to do so. It will come through budgets, but it will also come through measures and innovation on how we can promote integration. Can the Prime Minister reflect on how she thinks we should strengthen efforts to enable municipalities to do the important job?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e139	First of all, I think it is absolutely right that we should have a broad and good dialogue at Stortinget. We need to discuss how we get to both integration and settlement in a better way. The largest conversion of the integration approach in Norway took place between 2002 and 2005. Then I was responsible for it. Then we made a systematic integration scheme, which we hadn't had before, we made the right and duty to Norwegian training, we provided an introduction scheme. It's a rather demanding scheme, but it's delivered better results than it had before. But it could be that we're going to discuss some of those pillars and see if there are areas where people with high skills can get out of work faster, if there are multiple ways we have to go to actually use the resources. Then I think it's an important thing that many municipalities do very well at integration. Both the municipality of Molde and the municipality of Fjell have reported that they have made a profit from the integration grants, and they have used it to strengthen the care of the elderly. Why did they do that? Because they're good at integration. So one of the things we might want to do is learn from the best municipalities, the ones that really get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e148	I fully agree with that, and I think, in particular, that people get started quickly with language and quickly being able to use their qualifications, are important measures. But I have to ask the question: if this is a good thing as we know it, that everyone is in that job, the Labour Party will put it up and support it under good measures. But I believe that now, when we are gathered in this room – I took it up in my post – we deserve an answer from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. The last thing we heard from the government's no. 2 was in the election campaign, where she not only had an opinion about refugee and integration policy – it is an honest matter – but she had a call for action, namely that the municipalities should not accept more refugees, they should say no, and one effect of it may be that we can stop the Syria agreement. It wasn't just a meaning, but it was a call for action. Now the Storting is together, and now a lot has happened to those numbers, so the finance minister may have changed his mind. But if the Prime Minister sees that for the municipalities who are going to be part of this task, it is a problem when the government speaks with two tongues and that reaches the government's no. 2 Do municipalities encourage them to say no to this major housing challenge, is it a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e156	The government does not speak with two tongues in the government, and the Minister of Finance has also been quite clear that the government has one platform, and that is that we should implement the Syria agreement and that we should ensure better settlement. That is why the Minister of the Progress Party, who is also responsible for housing, has made a very courageous effort, made a record in the settlement, personally involved and worked hard on this. And then it's like in a municipal election fight there's a discussion going on party politics and party politics dividing lines. I think that discussion must be allowed in the name of democracy, but the government's view is quite clear: we encourage the municipalities to settle. We're going to work hard to get to this, and we need to find new ways to work in the municipalities to ensure good integration that goes faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e161	I think the Prime Minister is spending too much time in government. I don't think she sees how this looks from the outside, how it sounds. I hear the Prime Minister talk and trust what she says. That is why we trust the Syria agreement – because the Right is in it. We could live with that. But there's a difference when the government number. 2, she who controls the money for this, says – and when seven councillors like this follow her party leader, she hears: the municipalities should say no. Now 50 new asylum recipients are to be set up, and the figures are increasing weekly. Are these people going to live on asylum receptions, or are the municipalities going to think they're going to get good integration, accept more? What was a huge challenge in accepting 8 000 over three years in June was the 5,000 who received it. It's still a huge challenge, and the municipalities have to be encouraged to take us with them. But it's not too late. The Prime Minister can once again confirm that what the Minister of Finance said here is not the government's policy. She can say those words, and the finance minister can use this day to somehow say that what she meant in August, she has a slightly different view of now. It'll be completely legitimate when we look at the increased numbers. The non-residence of municipalities is not a policy of good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e168	I can probably repeat for something such as the 25th time that the government's policy is to settle. This applies to all the seven government councils of the Progress Party that are now in government. They fully understand that it's government policy, and that's what we're working for. There's no doubt about that – we've answered that 25 times before. Now I think it's important to focus on what's crucial: how we're going to deal with the flow of refugees that's coming. Yesterday we talked here in the hall that we were going to stop sending people out. That, I would say, is a very bad strategy related to the refugee situation we now have. Returning people who do not have the right to stay is one of the most important ways to ensure that the institution of asylum is preserved as the institution of asylum. If we stop doing that, we encourage more people to come to the country without any grounds for asylum. Giving back signals of being returned is important for maintaining the institution of asylum we have. That's the challenges I see we have to work hard on, and that's what this government is going to do, along with housing more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e177	I want to thank the Prime Minister for a very good contribution. Here the Prime Minister invites you to a broad tax settlement and follows a good tradition from the governments of Harlem Brundtland, Bondevik and Stoltenberg, and I am pleased about that. I still want to focus on the extraordinary situation, and the Prime Minister himself says that there is a completely different picture we see now, than when the government put the last hand on the government budget. In the last few days, we have a total of 25 000. With the figures the Prime Minister presents today, there is reason to believe that this figure may be even higher. My question is: is it that the government is now doing what it can to equip the entire reception system – registration, construction, health care, housing – so that one can ensure that one now at all levels is best prepared for the great challenge we face?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e186	I would like to say that we are working on a bomb with reception capacity. I have registered that someone believes that you are working too slowly. In fact, I believe that those who work in the PU – who now have two shifts, 78 new employees – who work around the clock to get this to, really deserve praise and no more criticism. We're actually setting up a whole new pre-transit reception in consultation – probably next week it's time to go. This has been done in record time: in four weeks you set up a new reception centre. There's a good reason to say that this is actually working on blasts, and it's doing a good job. With that reception centre, with today's situation, we would be able to handle the registration in a completely different way, but it's clear that it needs to be expanded even more if there's even more. And that could be, and that's why you also have the readiness to expand your capacity further. Then we will return with an additional number to the budget, about the consequences for next year, and there will also be a description of many of the new measures and what needs to be done to maintain capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e193	I'm recording that the government is doing what it can. The reception system we have is not dimensioned to the challenge we're facing right now, and it's therefore important that the Storting too be involved in that work as early as possible, because a lot of it has to be done this fall. One of the challenges we're going to see is that the first year's refugee expenses are going to increase dramatically. Several governments have, among other things: because it is ODA-approved means of assistance are included and taken from the aid budget. There will be a paradox if there are the poor in the world to take that bill. We now see the effects of a country that is destabilised, such as Syria, and its consequences. Is the Prime Minister aware that it is not just the long-term assistance that must now be lost in the work we are facing this fall? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e202	I have made it clear several times that I believe we must be careful that we do not believe that we can only provide short-term assistance, because much of the conflict prevention takes place through long-term assistance. Knowing that the population of Africa can rise from one billion to three billion over the course of this century, it's actually a huge challenge if we don't manage to create better economic development than what we have. Fortunately, more countries in Africa are going better, with economic development, but we also know that there are wars, conflicts, and there are several countries that have collapsed. It is therefore important from my point of view that we also have long-term assistance, which contributes to economic development. My commitment to education – and not least to the education of girls – is precisely because it is a long-term, important part of conflict prevention, and also in order to ensure economic development in many countries. That's why we have to do both. Prevention is always the most important thing, it gives the best results. It is more expensive to deal with situations when they have arisen, but we also have to deal with those situations. We will also experience pressure on foreign investment from many countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e209	Prime Minister Erna Solberg conducts a policy that centralises Norway. Yesterday we saw the beginning of a massive centralization of the police. After the election, it was announced that tracts around the country would be built down. A strong centralisation of emergency services at the country's hospital has been announced. These are just a few examples. The government centralizes Norway, and we are in the Center Party against that. The biggest centralisation reform, the municipal reform, met massive popular resistance in the local election campaign. It was only in one of the fourteen municipalities that had a referendum, that it became a yes to aggregation. The people want services close to where they live. But government surveys and polls showed that the peoples of the same municipalities were positive – in the government-initiated polls they got the positive answers, but when people were actually asked for advice, they said no. What does the Prime Minister think should be given the most weight – polls or referendums?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e216	The government has invited a neighboring call between municipalities to look at the municipal structure. The individual municipality then decides how to consult its citizens on the road. In that consultation, there are some municipalities that have opted for a referendum, and this is linked to the advice given to local politicians on the road they are going to go further. As the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, knows, the government has taken a voluntary line in that neighbouring talk, although it does not always sound like it has been brought with it, and then it is the municipal politicians who are going to assess these issues. Then there was a tone in the question of polling institutions that makes inquiries because the government has asked about it, that it means – in a way – that there is no credibility in those polls. I'm actually going to reject that. It may be that the political debate in the municipalities has eaten up against a referendum leads to a different result than one originally had, but I don't think we should discredit the polling institutions in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e223	The community merger is a permanent change that we know creates strong feelings, and as we know, the recipe is centralization. The municipal mergers that have been successful have taken place on a voluntary basis and have had broad popular support. So the government has tried to get a little bit around it using polls. Now we've seen that the polls systematically misjudged the people's will. Where there has been referendum and polling, we have seen that the people in a proper election say no, while in the government-initiated measurements, so-called population surveys, the government gets the answer they want – that it becomes yes. It's completely systematic. The Prime Minister should say, I believe, that, of course, the government should respect the referendums, that it is totally inappropriate to override the local people's will, and when you see that the measurements and the population surveys are so systematically wrong, referendums should be taken into account. Does the Prime Minister think referendums are a better tool than polls?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e230	I believe that when we have submitted to the next-door chat, when we have made legislation that a majority on the Stortinget has supported, it is each municipality that decides how they consult. I experience that when you have had a good process of good involvement in Sandefjord, Andebu and Stokke, where there have actually been many large public meetings related to what will happen in a municipal merger, and you have been in favour of a municipal merger, you have consulted your population in a thorough and good way through several rounds of participation, and it has also been a good way to go into the depths of what a municipal structure change can mean for their municipalities. I don't intend to give you one example of how the municipalities will choose to consult and talk to their people about community mergers. Once we've put ourselves on a voluntary line, once we've had faith in the municipalities, we should probably also respect the fact that municipal politicians are able to do that consultation with their citizens in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e238	I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good speech, which she pointed to all the major challenges we face. Some of them are very serious about themselves. The refugee situation we are now seeing is a result of poor policy solutions. Refugee flows are always evidence that politicians have not been able to face challenges facing countries. What can really lead to large refugee flows in the world is that we don't solve the climate issue, that we can't solve the huge challenge it is. What the Prime Minister said in his speech, that business structures need to be climate friendly, means that we are to create jobs that go far into the future, including with a new climate policy. Does not the Prime Minister's mention of Sverdrup and the other oil fields move in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e247	First, I would like to say that poor political solutions – poor political craftsmanship, I think the representative said – may be a mild description of dictators and power-holders who are not willing to democracy, such as us. has seen in Syria. It is a challenge, quite simply, that there is a lack of international capacity to follow the principles on which the entire UN Charter is based and to implement them. Whether continuing to operate oil is a mistake in terms of a green shift: Norwegian oil business will be of less importance in the Norwegian economy in the years to come. It's still going to be of great importance, but less importance. I don't see any reason to accelerate the downward trend that is, because we're going to need both the income and the activity. And still, in the medium term, gas is part of the European energy demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e256	The second major part of the challenge facing us in Norway is to prepare the population for the big green shift. It's about competence, and it's about knowledge. In his speech and in his speech, the Prime Minister addressed the research and development of an important research effort, supported by the Left. She also included the impact of the Left in the budget, for example. making kindergartens cheaper for those growing up in families with poor advice. But our challenge in the future is both to expand the arrangements that make kids who don't have the same good start in life as everyone else, get the same start in life in terms of knowledge and training, and that we have a school that lifts all children. Then five-year-old teacher training, continuing the teacher's vow, is very important. It was not mentioned in the keynote address of the Prime Minister, but is the Prime Minister still willing to join the race that the Left is running, to lift all children in to face the knowledge challenges facing Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e265	The government has chosen to create languages of the throne that are not a list of all the policies we have, but concentrate on some broad lines about perhaps the most important challenges. I have heard several articles asking for a few pieces. We haven't canceled any parts of the policy we've been talking about for many years, but we don't have to repeat it in every single debate on the throne. We are still in the process of implementing the teaching promise we have told us to implement. A five-year teacher training is part of that. The teacher strategy that we put forward last year, we are following and working actively. We are strengthening the school – we are going to see it again when the budget comes tomorrow – in important areas, primarily to ensure that we meet the needs of teachers, for example. in real science and other subjects. It's a real science strategy. It is a reading strategy, which is not least about the youngest children, to ensure that everyone gets a good enough response. However, there are also childcare facilities, which will ensure that kindergartens become the pedagogical measure before starting school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e272	The Prime Minister began his speech by talking about the green shift. That's good, but the green shift in Norway is in blue. The government of Erna Solberg is doing very little to make Norway less oil dependent. The UN report on the new climate economy identifies fossil subsidies as one of the main challenges that prevent us from achieving the 2 degree target. The government of Norway and Erna Solberg had a total of 20.8 billion. kr in the tax expenditure of the petroleum industry. We subsidize exploration, while industry on land does not receive such compensation for start-up risk. We have far more favourable offshore depreciation rules than we have on land. The government gives large, targeted research appropriations to petroleum. Can the Prime Minister talk about green change when she continues to hold on to grey subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e281	There are a lot of companies that show that the green shift in Norway is going on, when we look at Karmøy, when we look at Tizir, when we look at a number of companies that have started up, which have received money and support to make their production considerably greener, among other things. because of the investment we have in the Climate Technology Fund. We are increasing the environmental technology system. We have increased investment in a number of areas that contribute to innovation and innovation related to just green shifts. These are not least maritime strategies. The fact that we have given clear and clear long-term notice that the NOx fund is being maintained also makes the emissions of the maritime sector greener. There will be capital and the ability to take part in the technological developments, which must be done for that industry. But it is not that we believe that we should then build up the oil sector faster. It will continue to be the root cause of future funding for well-being. I do not need to see more unemployed people, as SV obviously has, when they have voted against the Sverdrup field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e293	The Prime Minister is more explicit than ever that the transition from oil to a climate-friendly industry must now take place. Yesterday, the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party made a longer contribution on both climate and green shifts. Of course, the Greens welcome this positive development in our direction in the debate. However, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway do not decrease. The biggest investment is in the oil sector. Our biggest industrial project is Sverdrup. We spend more money on motorways than on railways, etc. When can we expect a comprehensive plan from the government based on Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions and Norwegian climate responsibility, which is at the heart of the problem and which shows how Norway as a whole will implement the green shift in practice, to which no figures can yet demonstrate that we are on the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e300	Even in a world where values are produced greener, Norway will need good infrastructure. We're going to need roads, we're going to need railways. But in many parts of District Norway, it's the way that's the answer, not the railway, because it doesn't exist – and I don't think either of us are going to find out that it's going to be profitable to build it out in these areas. But there's a lot of value production in the same places. Climate considerations are going to be very important in the way we handle the whole transport sector. Next year, we will enter into an agreement with the EU on how to implement the 40 pst cuts that we have committed ourselves to in the joint implementation bit. We know that the part of Norwegian emissions that is not part of the quota system is largely in the transport sector and in agriculture. This means that there will be a plan – as a follow-up to that agreement – on how to launch the main instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e307	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e312	The economic situation in Norway is challenging. Reduced activity in oil-related activities gives us great challenges, but also great opportunities. Inland is being developed as an area of the country where employment and the economy seem to have more positive features than other parts of the country. Don't let it turn into a rest cushion. In fact, significant domestic challenges are ahead of us. It will require more than a political line of nutrition and geography neutrality, as the government has so far foreshadowed. Unfortunately, the speech of the throne gave few signals about another growth-creating course. It is now appropriate to invest, including in an active domestic industrial and employment policy. A green shift in Norway would have to base much of its activity on renewable resources such as soil and forest. It's actually a win-win situation. Investing in primary industries could bring us great climate gains, increased employment and, not least, a stronger settlement across the country, and in such a situation I feel the need to raise the forest industry. The answer for the forest industry is not deregulation and state absence. There are now strong incentives such as significantly increased research efforts, better access to capital and the creation of strong clusters should be given priority. The time has not come to make the agricultural situation more difficult. The objective of reducing agricultural holdings should be significantly abandoned. It is appropriate to invest, both small and large players, in order to increase Norwegian food production. Such an image is also a recipe for reduced growth in government liberalisation. Removing concession law and price regulation is a bad recipe to ensure that we have people who dare to invest in small and large properties throughout the country. The debate has so far pointed to the distribution effect of the government's tax policy. The ones with a lot, get more. Those with less, actually get less. To finance constant tax cuts for those who have the most, including, inter alia: to cut into important budget lines for regions and districts, such as: regional development funds create a different distribution of bias. The districts are losing. Significant tax cuts, e.g. in the taxes on wealth, urban proximity benefits very much. Removing taxes on wealth in Norway, some urban areas in Oslo receive ten times more tax relief than, for example, Uppland and Hedmark combined. It's not a good foundation for creating nourishment and activity across the country and industries we're actually going to live off in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e323	It's thoughtful to hear all the stories of the many people who today are fleeing on our own continent. It helps put our own challenges in perspective. That's why it's reassuring to know that the government's priority is to help people in need, and that the government's emphasis is on receiving refugees in this country in a good way. It is also important to underline the work of the government to help refugees in Syria and the neighbourhoods with access to food, schooling and health services. The government is proposing to increase emergency aid by 1 billion. kr in 2016. The Prime Minister himself takes the lead in this work and has offered to the UN that Norway can host a donor country conference in the context of the Syria crisis. One of the most important things that politicians can contribute to in the long term is helping people and countries to cope with themselves. Then education is a key. The Prime Minister has taken a global lead in promoting education for development through a special commitment to girls and the poorest children. Education is, and will always be, high priority for the government. It is reflected in practical policies, and it is also reflected in the budgets. Under the previous government, training through assistance was halved from 13.3 p.m. of the 2005 aid budget to 7.2 pst. in 2014. In 2015, $2.4 billion. go to education. It's an increase from 2014 to 1⁄2 billion. kr. The government announces that it will promote a budget for work, activity and conversion. Already when the government took over power from the red-greens in 2013, this work started. To meet our own challenges at home, we rely on budgets to stimulate growth and value creation. Then, among other things, we must: invest heavily in education and research, and this benefits the government. To date, the government has presented an ambitious long-term research and higher education plan followed by increased funding. The government has launched a comprehensive structural reform in the university and higher education sectors, and students are prioritised through increased student support and record number of student homes year after year under the Right-Fremskritsparti-government. It seems hollow to me when the Workers' Party repeats a mantra that the government is doing too little and is late on the track, when we talk about the need for conversion. It seems hollow, especially because history tells us that they didn't take advantage of the space of action in the economy they had to invest in what matters to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the economy. The action space was used to implement standard increases and increase expenditure in a number of areas. Priority was given to measures to strengthen productivity and growth capacity in the longer term. It also underlined the President of the Central Bank in his speech in 2011. When the action rule on the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy was introduced, there was a clear premise that the increase in the action space would be used to generate future growth. What Erna Solberg and her government are doing is changing the direction of policy by turning the use of oil money into investment in growth-enhancing measures. This means reducing taxes on business, investing in research and knowledge, and investing in transport and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e343	I was inspired by the representative Trond Giske, who claimed that no government had ever taken over a better and more well-run Norway. It's a story I don't know all about. We took over a huge maintenance seat between 80 billion. and 120 B.C.E. NOK only on the road network, 17 billion. kr on the network – a lag on the railway which increased by 1 billion. kr in the year from 2005 to 2013. In August 2013, there were more than 1,100 people in housing queues, a queue that had tripled in four years. From 2005 to 2013, the number of health cows increased from 200 000 to 280 000, and while Norway had an average productivity growth of 3 pst from 1996 to 2005, Norway had an average productivity growth of only 0,8 pst under the red-greens. Is this really the best starting point? In my head, the inheritance that the red-green ones delivered is not a good starting point at all. That's a bad starting point. But we have accepted the challenge, and we have taken action. This year it is the first year of several decades when the delays in road and rail maintenance are reduced. Today there are 800 more police officers, and the percentage of information has increased from 37.5 pst. to 44 pst. We have put in place a lot of new prison sites, including 242 temporary ones in the Netherlands, to deal with the huge queues that the Workers' Party left behind, and as a long-term solution, we have put in place 300 new prison sites that come to South Africa. We've opened up to use free capacity in private hospitals, we've strengthened the economy, increased the input-driven funding. The last time we did that, it had a pretty quick effect on the health cows. Now we've done it again, and we see that the waiting lists are decreasing. There is almost no other government that has had a better starting point than the red-green government. They had a clean majority, they could do exactly what they wanted, but what we see, is that the retarded and the red-green decay increased in very many areas. Everyone knew that the Norwegian economy was vulnerable, but Trond Giske and the Workers' Party ignored the warnings and made the Norwegian economy increasingly oil dependent between 2005 and 2013. The warnings have unfortunately become reality, and while the red-green government felt that the oil price increased by over 200 pst. from December 2008 to April 2011, it is now up to the Right-Fremskritsparti government to manage Norwegian economy safely through a rough waters of falling oil prices. Fortunately, in many areas, we are now on the right track. Significant tax cuts in jobs and massive infrastructure investments are part of the recipe for a successful transition. I would like to point out again that there was no evidence for the representative, Giske, to claim that we had the best starting point when we started the job. I would rather claim that those who had a clean majority should have done a better job when they had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e362	The parliamentary leader of the Right is committed to telling us that they follow the will of the people. State Council Sanner told us that the government is listening to the inhabitants and that they have provided a predictable and good financial framework for the municipalities. It may be predictable, but in that case it is bad news for the municipalities. For if Sanner had really listened, he would have discovered that there are very few, if any, municipalities that believe they have a good financial framework. It must be allowed to be somewhat surprised at this kind of statement. There is no popular requirement for lower taxes here in the country. There's no popular requirement to sell State Forest. There is no public requirement to change the work environment law, on the contrary. But listen to the government – no. The answer is that the people and we don't understand that much. Now the people say they don't want Sunday open shops. But listen to the government – no. Students, teachers and parents will have a higher educational density in school. But the blue-blue doesn't think that's a very good idea. It would be interesting to know who it is Right talking about when they keep telling us that they listen to people and people. The outcome of the municipal elections and yesterday's polls can not be said to be proof that people and residents are particularly pleased with the listening capacity of the blue parties and the government. I have not seen a single action or demand from the people around Norway that the differences in the country should be increased. We want a society of small differences, said the Prime Minister, but it is the opposite policy that is being pursued. It concerns tax policy, social security, outsourcing of competition, privatisation and the Labour Environment Act. We have been promised that the concession laws are falling, and that the sale of Norway is important. If we are to believe in leaks from the coming state budget, the differences between people in this country will only continue to increase. More and more research shows that countries with small economic disparities generate higher growth and are better equipped for conversion. But the government doesn't care much. To those who still believe that more to those who have the most from before leads to more for everyone, all the research shows that the theory is wrong. On the other hand, we now see that the distance between people is increasing. When a small group owns more and more of capital and wealth, when the large majority receives an ever smaller share of cake, when an economic policy is pursued that excludes and creates inequality, it can have serious consequences. This gives us every reason to continue the work of a policy of community and small differences, an active policy of knowledge and industry, a policy of creating security and freedom for individuals, the creation of community values and income for individuals. That is what is the solution to many of the challenges we are now facing, a solution that is modern and effective, and which the majority of the people in this country obviously want. Finally, until now, the mantra of the Right and the Advance Party in the debate has been that we are opposed to change, we will not build the country, and, understandably, unemployment is the cause of red-green people. I only find one covering word for it – it gets too stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e379	Three themes have been throughout this debate: 1st@item: inlistbox Norway's contribution to creating security and a better everyday life for the large number of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who are travelling through Europe 2nd@item: inlistbox National and international responsibility for climate and environment 3rd@item: inlistbox The need for change in business and the large increase in unemployment in parts of our country The right parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, said in his main post yesterday that we are doing each other better when we challenge each other's ideas and solutions, and we make each other worse when we suspect each other's values and motives. It's well said and a challenge for us when we're in a difficult situation. We experience a turbulent labour market. In my part of the country, the fatherland friend could tell on Saturday that the time off increases by 18 p.m. compared to the same time last year. 4.1 pst is out of work in South Africa, and I think we're at the top of the country. A policy of work, activity and conversion is both necessary and welcome. It is a prerequisite for creating a robust Norway and for implementing the green shift. At the same time, we're going to build a society with opportunities for everyone to have a safe and healthy everyday life. The most important welfare in people's lives is having a safe job to go to. This means that we can pay the mortgage, support ourselves and our families. Therefore, safe jobs and new industries that can give us more weight to stand on are fundamental to this government’s priorities – while the Workers’ Party did not prioritise new jobs when Jonas Gahr Støre launched its main election campaigns in the municipalities. It's alarming in the situation that our country is in. I am particularly pleased that the government is now increasing the apprenticeship grant again, for measures against youth unemployment and for targeted measures for engineers. The situation in the South and the West is good. 350 new jobs for PPU means that a lot of engineers can retrain themselves to work at school, where we need more good real-time teachers. Increased investment in infrastructure means a lot to keep the wheels running. High employment and low unemployment are the foundations of the Norwegian model and are necessary to ensure well-being. Our society has its backs to carrying those who are out of work through this necessary conversion, which the red-greens could have started a long time ago. We need to use that possibility now that we have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e400	The new motto «green shift» must be given content in order to make a difference for people in their daily lives. What's the opposite of green? In my world, it's black. So green shifts are going from fossil to renewable natural resources. It's going in the direction of green energy: hydropower, geothermal, solar panels. It's going in the direction of biofuels: petrol and diesel from plants and trees. It's going from carbon that's from fossil energy – fossil carbon – to materials that have a base in green carbon. So the green shift is concrete. Going to a green shift must be based on the fact that it must be profitable for people and business. Low oil prices will make it even more difficult to achieve profitability in the processing of this green carbon, whether it is used for energy or for construction materials. Therefore, radical new economic instruments, new economic conditions, are needed to achieve this profitability. The profitability must be in terms of both production, technology development and industrial processing of this green carbon – raw materials from primary industries, because that is what we are talking about. In its basics, we're talking about cod, thymote and spruce, to be concrete. We're talking about the future of working life for young people in this business and working life, that you should be able to train yourself with a hope and a dream that you should do something interesting and socially useful. So we have to ask ourselves: what do we want with fisheries, what do we want with agriculture, what do we want with forestry? A green shift will require a change of policy in these areas. The Centre Party has put forward a concrete proposal for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of green carbon companies. It's a proposal that's now in the nutrition committee. It is a proposal that goes into concrete terms on the industrial side and is based on the tradition we have in Norway, namely an interaction between public, trade and private – i.e. the interaction between public, trade and private – to ensure the industrial development of products based on green carbon. This is an important concrete input that can give content to the green shift, and there is content that is now needed. We don't need any more honorary words without content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e411	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good report. The situation is serious, and the prerequisites for solving it are good. It's a serious hindrance: the financial situation, the unemployment rates and the greatest humanitarian crisis and migration we've had since World War II. Against this background, government policy should be assessed. I note that the Prime Minister protects about a double-communist government and legitimises two-message communications about the practical policy to solve what she herself refers to as the biggest challenge for the country. I'm excited about the long-term consequences of an attitude that, according to my concepts, is a laissez-faire attitude on an important topic. The language of the throne contained the formulations it is fully possible to join. But when we get to the instrumentation, the differences emerge: tax policies that create greater differences, we have 8 March markers like in the 1970s, labour policies where hundreds of thousands of workers go on trains – general strikes. Do you remember when it was the last time? Yes, 16-17 years ago. Most certainly, this government is leading us back to old days in many ways. The government's lack of willingness to listen to what people have to say is disturbing. Prison in the Netherlands was introduced despite massive opposition from PST, lawyers, relatives, trade unions and human rights organisations. Sunday-open shops are to be conducted, even if the resistance is like from here to the Churchnes. There has not been any conversion during the Stoltenberg administration, says the rhetoric. Alcoa in the list has changed since 2009 in the period until today and they will continue to change. The world's purest aluminium production has not come without conversion. The oil business of the Node companies that developed into participation in the exclusive world class, the establishment of the Mechatronic Innovation Lab at the University of Agder, where the government luckily followed up the Workers' Party's bet, or the Eyde network, which is now on the way up in the elite division of the process industry. Crime has led to the world’s lowest repeat crime, and crime has fallen in recent years. That's how I can keep going. Is this because we haven't changed? No, the conversions have given us a great advantage. That's why it's so important to have a legislation on leave that protects us from retaining the competences that these migrations have given us. The active substances are different, although the objectives may be the same. Community solutions such as the primary choice are key services such as education and health: Yes, says the Workers' Party. No, the government says. Tax policy that distributes and redistributes: Yes, says the Workers' Party. No, the government says. The Norwegian model is referred to as this: The biggest threat to the Norwegian model is that we are unable to change in time. It's not a threat. The threat is that you do not cooperate with the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e426	The opposite of the green shift is the black one, said Lundtegen. No, the complementary to green is red. So there's no more red policy we need. I want to address an important issue from the throne, namely security policy. We see a world of increasing terrorism, organised crime, piracy and digital threats, which also means more and more widespread consequences for international stability and development. Wars in Syria and Iraq and the emergence of new terrorist groups face increasing challenges. Conflicts and lawlessness are driving people on the run and attracting foreign fighters. This also directly affects Norway. Security policy needs to be adapted to a new era by looking at the threats in the context. Development and security are two sides of the same coin. It is more important than ever to pursue policies that contribute to stability, prevent radicalisation, violent extremism, organised crime and conflicts. Therefore, it is gratifying to see that the government presented a number of measures and initiatives in this field just before the holiday. We need to address terrorism, organised crime, piracy and digital security challenges in a context. It is important to continue international and regional cooperation with organisations such as the United Nations, NATO and AU. The Government will also strengthen the ability of the countries and relevant organisations concerned to prevent and address global security challenges. The government is now setting up a 100 million aid programme. against mafia activities and illicit trafficking. This includes, inter alia: trafficking in human beings and environmental crime. And it is proposed to set up a 100 million aid programme. against radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism. Norway is therefore not free from organised crime, piracy, the threat posed by repatriated foreign fighters, terrorism and digital attacks. This can threaten our way of living in our liberal society in the longer term. Therefore, we need to secure Norway, our well-being, our values. We must be better equipped to meet the unforeseeable, and here we must work long-term with a number of instruments. In the international field, aid, diplomatic, judicial and military instruments must play a better role together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e441	The Prime Minister pointed out many of the major challenges ahead of us. Some of the challenges are international, i.e. most of them are. The threat to the funding base and the joint solidarity financing of our well-being is one of them. Therefore, there are high expectations related to proposals that are now coming to limit the international concealment of incomes and wealth in tax havens and regimes, which make them with the strongest back, as the Prime Minister said, not at all with and bearing any load, because they are hiding away. This is the great threat to our welfare state and its financing. It's not that any disadvantaged or sick or disabled people get an income they can live on, or that we have a welfare state that helps people who have a difficult life. There is no threat to the welfare state. It is all of these that hide their income and wealth and do not participate in a joint financing. Then there is reason to remember that many of the companies that are now involved in eating the money for common well-being in care and health and other services are just these companies. When you invite for offers on child protection and care for the elderly and other things, you give orders to companies that hide in tax havens, and in a subtle way, they suck away all income, which means that they are not on the split layer neither here nor there. One of the other international threats to our most important resource, human beings, we've seen in the newspapers in the last few days, and that's unfortunately nothing new either. It's the case of those who are called the downloaders. I take it up because I see the Minister of Justice sitting in the hall. It is gross exploitation of children, who are injured for the life of assault, by people who sit and use image material from others who have committed the assaults and are therefore part of it, and of course there is a problem. I don't know how many times the Storing has discussed these things, and that these are what we need to protect. I don't know how it's possible to increase police resources then to a mild degree, but this can still happen. Some of these men that VG has revealed have also been taken before. There are no new situations. I would ask the Minister of Justice, when he is here, to take the floor and explain how he will ensure that this is given priority, because this is a very serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e452	I note that the Prime Minister answers very evasively both to Gahr Støre's questions about our proposals for changes to the law on permitting and to the challenge of the municipalities interpreting the Minister of Finance's statements on housing. At the same time, throughout the debate, I think that the representatives of the government parties have spent a great deal of time characterising the Labour Party's policy rather than talking about their own policies. I think Right Kårstein Eidem Løvaas spent almost all his time talking about the Workers' Party's rhetoric and policy rather than talking about Right Policy. Greece called for cooperation and constructive action. We should then perhaps expect a slightly more appropriate approach when we ask the government representatives – a legitimate question – how the municipalities should respond to the crackdown from the government in view of the great challenge we are now facing with ever-increasing arrivals of refugees, but also in terms of proposals that were promoted in the Storting yesterday on changes in the permit code – to mention something. I take the government parties' commitment to the Workers' Party over their own policies as a clear sign that the government's representatives have lost both confidence and ideas. We've put behind us a local choice. Local politicians have asked for and been given the confidence of the people, and with this comes a great responsibility. We have seen too many examples, I believe, that municipalities have refused media transparency in important information, either in terms of ways of organising businesses that prevent transparency, that elected representatives are not well informed by the administration, or that there may be employees who are refused to talk to journalists. In my view, this represents a democratic challenge that we have to take seriously, and it fits well with a local election. People don't know what's going on, and they don't get the opportunity to react before decisions are made. The public sector shall be the guarantor of transparency and the guarantor of the freedom of expression of employees. This fall we have the opportunity to seize. We're going to have an evaluation of the municipal law and the publicity law that's expected just before Christmas. I want to promote an interpellation with the Norwegian Minister of State on transparency in Norwegian municipalities. Newly elected municipal government representatives now have the opportunity to put this on the agenda and contribute to a new culture of transparency in public Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e459	This government wants to create the patient's health care system. This means conversion, new forms of work, and not least that patients should be granted more rights. This is something the non-socialist parties have always been the proponents of. We want to introduce new statutory rights for patients. This government has also arranged for more people to be treated in hospitals. Patients with mental health and drug disorders are a priority, and this group has been given a boost with the new government. Health undertakings have been entrusted with the task of dealing with several. The ‘Golden Rule’ has been reintroduced, and is a rule that areas of mental health and intoxication alone should grow more than somatic. The rule works. The waiting time for treatment in specialist healthcare in mental health and drug treatment has been reduced by almost 10 days. Hospitals are now turning their priorities towards treating patients with mental health and drug problems. In addition, money was allocated in 2014 to 200 new places for treatment by NPISHs. We wanted health regions to buy more services from private and non-profit actors with free capacity. Under red-green rule, drug institutions such as Phoenix Haga in Eastfold or the Finnmarks collective did not treat patients with drug problems. They're doing that now. The competence was requested. We have also announced that we will give 400 million. kr to strengthen municipal services in the field of drugs in 2016, as part of the escalating plan for the drug field. Those sitting at the bottom of the health policy table have been raised with this government. It must be a cross of thought for the Workers' Party that it had to go to a blue government to get to this. The Labour Party is also opposed to the reform of the free choice of treatment adopted by us. The reform will give patients with mental health problems and drug rights to choose and approve treatment institutions — a new right. The main organisation of the drug field supports this. Through the closure of the facility, hospitals have also been given the opportunity to treat several patients. The government has strengthened the hospitals' economy and facilitated growth in its two budgets, compared to the red-green economy in eight years. The working party calls for more money, but is not willing to introduce reforms that benefit patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e474	Yesterday, the representative Trond Giske stated that it is not the responsibility of the Right Party or the Advance Party that the oil price has fallen, or that it was the responsibility of the Workers' Party that we had the financial crisis. He continued to say that the policy taken to deal with crises is always the responsibility of the government. The results of the policy are also the responsibility of the government. Every government must ultimately be judged on the results it produces. I fully agree, and that is why I found some newspaper covers from September 2013. After eight years of oil-based speed in the economy, the Evening Post wrote that the economy was slowing down, and we were on the way to increasing unemployment and lower wage growth. It was the legacy of the red-greens. That same month, our country had the headline: ‘Ernna’s new government inherits a waste bomb’ The indentation was: ‘Hearing director Erna Solberg shall rule a country where schools and hospitals rot. Seven out of ten municipal buildings should be cleaned up, roads missing asphalt, and Norwegian churches should be upgraded.» As we all know, the inheritance fee was not removed until the Right Party and the Advance Party presented their first budget, so the inheritance after the red-greens came at a significant cost. The good news is that we thus have a concrete list of uplifts in these countercyclical times: everything that rotted on the root under the red-green. But we have to do it smarter than the red-greens did in the financial crisis. It is possible that 300,000 jobs were created under the red-green, but according to LO's chief economist Stein Reegård, the entire employment growth fell to foreign labour. Net immigration from 2008 was close to 260,000, and LO’s chief economist was in no doubt that this forced the Nordics out of the labour market. So I fully agree with the representative Giske: the policy put in place to deal with crises is always the responsibility of the government – in this case: the responsibility of the red-green government. The results are also the responsibility of the government – in this case: the responsibility of the red-green government. Every government must ultimately be judged by the results it produces. So the red-greens slowed the economy, higher unemployment, lower wage growth, a land that rots on its roots, and employment that has pushed the Nordics out of the labour market without creating lasting jobs. Let me also add: 15,000 more poor children from the red-green government, who promised to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. I've been on my own. I know how difficult it is to halve your income while making mortgages and fixed expenses, without any guarantee of getting your job back. In 2014 about 11,000 oil jobs were cut without any increase in unemployment. They got a new job where they needed more. If we were to follow the pressure of the Workers' Party, these would go further on half the salary before they were terminated anyway. This government has been shown to act when necessary, and it should continue as it dictates.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e499	Yesterday it was said from the left that a government must take responsibility for the policy being pursued, and I think it was repeated in Political Quarter today that the government must take responsibility for its watch. So that's the level we're at right now. Of course you take responsibility. Of course, this majority takes responsibility for the policy adopted during this period. But the question has to be asked: Was Norway well prepared for the situation that came? The answer is simply no. The Labour Party has talked a lot about its legacy in this debate. Speeches shall be presented with pride. The usual self-satisfaction that characterizes the Workers' Party, you walk forward, anyway. However, increasing unemployment was predicted because Norway was not prepared for the changeover. That's why for many years, the Right had spent time warning against an economy that was too oil-dependent. The red-green government did the simplest one a politician can do: traveled around the country and promised billions here and there. Then it might not be too dangerous for the results to be missing. Fifteen thousand more poor children were the result. Teachers who did not receive the continuing training they wanted were the result. Young people who became invisible in a welfare system that was unable to prevent alienation were the result. Economic projections showing a future budget deficit were the result. This is the legacy – the legacy of the red-green government, and that's where we took over. What Norway needs now is a responsible economic policy, with a level of taxation that encourages future investment, massive investment in infrastructure, research and education, and repatriation of employment services in our welfare system. In the debate, the Labour Party calls itself constructive, but one has to ask: is it constructive, for example. to create so much confusion around the local reform that their own municipal politicians react? Is it constructive to say that the government doesn't do things the government actually does? Is it constructive not to be able to give clear answers on fiscal policy? Is it constructive at one moment to produce the law of permacy as a static invention, so that it needs to be adapted to the labour market? To call the behaviour of the Workers' Party in this Chamber constructive is to deprive the word of any meaningful significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e515	I want to send a greeting back to the previous representative: you are the world of disclaimer and, not least, of abuse of the word ‘constructive’, because the policy of the Right is the opposite of being constructive. I wanted to take the floor because I was a member of the Council of Europe delegation who had a study trip to Catania in Sicilia in the fall. In a meeting with their counties, she stated that of course it was difficult and, not least, challenging to accept 300,000 refugees over two years of age. But she said, we're doing it and we're going to keep doing it, because it's our duty to help people in need. But she underlined: we expect the rest of Europe to take its share of the burden. The keyword here is the Dublin Convention. Later in the day, when we met the 26 young people who survived the shipwreck that killed over 800 people, I understood how powerful the driving force in humans to create a safe and good life for themselves and theirs is. Unfortunately, thousands of people have not achieved this. They found their grave in the Mediterranean. Who are these people digging these mass graves out on the ocean? Well, it's cynical people, for whom human life doesn't matter – only money, prepaid of course. Then people will literally sail their own seas, where the probability of dying at sea is great, very great. The last thing I heard from Sicilia was that the human traffickers have now begun to kidnap each other's refugees, and then to demand ransom for them. It just shows how cynical people can be. This must be taken. I want – like Karin Andersen – to ask the Minister of Justice, since he is in the Chamber, if he can tell a little about how Norway works to pick up this kind of network, where the traffickers really show how evil people can be. Such meetings set their mark. That's why I think many times, in a sentence where a party leader and state council member of the Norwegian government can say to Kommune-Norway: Don't accept the refugees who are seeking help here, that there is little dignity in such a message. It is in stark contrast to the job that the Norwegian team at the Siem Pilot has as its trademark, in both words and actions. Each refugee taken on board shall be met with dignity, and each situation — no matter how heartbreaking it may be — shall be resolved with dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e535	Sitting government spends more money on the state budget than ever, but for every year that goes, the share of culture for the whole country becomes less. In combination with a tight local economy, the difference between the services provided by municipalities is only greater and larger. Norway has been given a Minister of Culture who is looking for money for culture anywhere other than in his own budget. Let there be no doubt: we have received a Minister of Culture who has so long distances from everyday culture in Norway that she has lost her eye contact. The government makes it easy for me to point out the lack of ambition, but I wish it were more difficult. For the losers now are the ones who live their lives in the municipalities. It's also cultural life, and they would have needed predictability for their important work. Before the summer, a total accumulation of cultural ministers commissioned in the form of decisions to mention five points in particular in their library strategy. It is amazing when increasing efforts on the purchasing system for children and young people are then ignored. I allow myself to ask the government representatives what is the reason for this. It would also be natural to get an explanation of why the strategy does not mention one of the most important tasks of the libraries. It would have been natural for music to be mentioned at least. Of course, it is a challenge for libraries to manage this responsibility when the Minister of Culture does not have an opinion about it in his future library strategy. The fact that the government is now shutting down the over a hundred-year-old library service for Norwegian sailors is also a paradox in a sea of fine words in the library strategy of the Minister of Culture, with the background of the western pearl Karmøy. I only have one thing to say in conclusion: I am a little afraid of Wednesday. I know that once again the Minister for Culture is the budget player in the government negotiations – unfortunately a lost loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e550	It has struck me as I have heard the speakers of the right parties both in the debate here and in other debates lately, how conscious they are of swearing the Workers' Party and trying to doubt the leaders of the party. During Jens Stoltenberg's leadership we heard from the Right: «This had not happened under Gro Harlem Brundtland.» As if Right as if had been so happy in Gro Harlem Brundtland earlier. It was the leading Right-wing people who ran the campaign ‘Be quit’a!’ during Gro Harlem Brundtland’s leadership. Now we hear under Jonas Gahr Støre, "This had not happened under Jens Stoltenberg." As if Jens Stoltenberg was a better leader than Jonas Gahr Støre. Of course, this is done deliberately from the right to speak down or spread falsehoods about the Workers' Party and its leaders. Perhaps at long last, Right Kårstein Eidem Løvaas went into yesterday's debate. He said, "I miss the good old Workers' Party." Why did Eidem Løvaas say it? Since both Eidem Løvaas and I are related to his native South Odal, I have entered the election statistics for the South Odal. In 1967, the year Eidem Løvaas was born, the Workers' Party received 67 pst. break-up in the municipal elections. Is that what the Arbeiderpartie Eidem Løvaas misses? In 1985, the year Eidem Løvaas had the right to vote for the first time, the Workers' Party also received 67 pst. digestion in the south of Odal, then at the fallout. Is that what the Arbeiderpartie Eidem Løvaas misses? Did Eidem Løvaa press the Workers' Party into his chest? Of course he didn't! Right and Eidem Løvaas have never had the sense of the Workers' Party and never had the sense of the Workers' Party leaders. They've never had the sense of either Harlem Brundtland or Stoltenberg, but they say it in retrospect, in a strategy to talk down today's leaders. And it does, of course, Right-Awareness – a party that opposed the general voting rights of men, against the general voting rights of women, against the eight-hour working day, against the establishment of the State Loan Fund for Education, against the introduction of disability benefits and against the statutory right to further education. So I'm not saying that all these reforms are the Labour Party's profits alone, but the labour movement was on the barricades for these reforms together with others. When the various pieces of the welfare community were adopted, it was against the will of the Right. That's the truth. Once new reforms have been adopted, the Right has first protested, then they have accepted, and gradually they have applauded. But they've never been in the driver's seat. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e559	I wish the representative Myrli and his colleagues in the Workers' Party spent more time talking about their own policies. That could be interesting for more people. I am pleased that both the census and the Prime Minister's speeches today focused a lot on the challenges we face in the wake of a low oil price and rising unemployment. Tomorrow, the state budget will be presented, and it is already announced that it will be a budget for work, for activity and for conversion. We need to provide solutions to the challenges we see today, and we need to make Norway more robust for the future. In the last period of recession, in the context of the financial crisis some years ago, the situation was different. At the time, we had a petroleum industry that went high on a high oil price, and that had both a high and an increasing level of activity during this crisis. Today the situation is different. We don't have the same traction from the oil industry, and we have to take the concept of conversion more seriously and figure out the supports that will carry our welfare society forward. In the Prime Minister's speech today, she was clear that one of our main challenges in the future is building a business structure that is even more climate friendly than the one we have today. But at the same time, she stressed that the petroleum sector will continue to be the rootstock of our economy for a long time in the future, although it will not contribute to the same growth impulses of the economy as we have seen over the last decades. It's allowed to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. We both need to be able to develop a petroleum industry while building other industrial structures. And from a climate perspective, we should not forget that the oil produced on a Norwegian base has low climate emissions in its production compared to other oil provinces, thanks to both strict legislation and a supplier industry and a competence that has responded to the environmental challenges. Norway is today a major gas producer, and we have to take with us the fact that gas has half the climate emissions of coal when it is produced for energy purposes, and will thus be an important part of more climate-friendly energy production in Europe in the future. The most important thing is to create new jobs, both within existing businesses and in new businesses, and we have many points of light in this work: we have a population that has a high level of knowledge, we have a well-functioning partnership in the labour market, we have a government that sets rates on knowledge, on research and on development, and our task is to facilitate good innovation and industrial development and growth in the future, with many new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e576	Increasing unemployment requires action. For the Workers' Party, always high employment and low unemployment and close and good cooperation with the social organisations have been the very foundation and foundation of the Norwegian welfare model. The Labour Party facilitates growth and new jobs with active industrial policies. We want to have a diverse business life in different regions and communities and that the entire country's resources are used and used in the best possible way. The Labour Party will invest in the skilled worker, provide more apprenticeships, update equipment and machine parks in vocational training, invest in vocational teachers, strengthen vocational schools and improve access to professional letters and not least ensure decent and safe working life in Norway. Unemployment among young people is growing. In the past, increasing unemployment among young people was a major phenomenon in Europe. Now this is becoming a reality in our country too. It is important to put in place measures to prevent young people from moving into permanent unemployment. Work gives the individual the opportunity to realize their own dreams and create security for themselves and their own family. The following is in the Common Era: ‘Standing without work is serious for it. The public equipment is ready to assist those who have become unemployed in new jobs. Follow closely the situation of young people and other vulnerable groups.» In stark contrast to what the government itself says, the situation for a number of businesses across the country is very critical. The government has chosen to send out refurbishment work in response to tenders. This has now resulted in at least 60 pst. the volume of these enterprises is transferred to commercial operators. In Nord-Trøndelag, Frisknet won the entire county. It's also a commercial actor. In the South Trondelag, Euroschool, a commercial actor, has taken almost all of the county. On the Fosen they have won all tenders. This almost halves the action sites from the turn of the year and affects Noris AS in Rissa, SAVA AS in Ørland and Bjugn and Fosen Vekst in Åfjord. Rosenvik AS on Orkanger is another company that is heavily affected by this bidding round. Seven employees must leave the end of the year. These are groups that lose their jobs and are very uncertain about what the future will bring. These are jobs dealing with assistance and follow-up for vulnerable groups. As far as the tendering process is concerned, my clear impression is that the government is striving to get commercial operators to carry out reintroduction work in the future. This will ultimately lead to the decommissioning of the societal tasks of today’s companies. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs wants a greater diversity of actors in the reintroduction industry to justify the launch of several screened actions. That's absolutely the opposite, because this is where vulnerable groups are pushed into unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e598	«The labour market needs fewer and fewer people who are good in mathematics – unless they also have a high level of social competence.» This wrote economist Mari Rege a few weeks ago in a chronicle in today’s Business with the title «Knowledge Is Not Enough». Rege has a point, although under no circumstances will I work politically to get fewer math talents in Norway. But that's not what Rege really means either. What she's doing, on the other hand, is pointing to some of the absolutely essentials of living, producing, contributing and exploiting the entire potential of a human being. It's neither about knowing the number of years, pugging the periodic table, quadratic equations, nor that one is the fastest reader in the class. These knowledge is of little value individually and alone. Knowledge of the students must be used as a building block for more knowledge. It must be able to be translated into practice, and students must learn to do so at school. There are skills that create more flexible and adaptable people. In 2013, the red-green government dropped the Ludvigsen Committee, a selection that would take on nothing less than the future school scheme — the students' education in the future school. The committee worked for two years, and some of the main conclusions presented before the summer were: more creativity in the school students need time to go deep; the school needs to facilitate in-depth learning students need to be trained in sorting knowledge and being critical students need to be reinforced in mental health education that needs to be cleared up in the curricula These are not simple and simple recommendations. The Ludvigsen Committee has challenged us politically to see more of the context and the whole of the school, and it engages more than us. The Federation of Education has held debates. The student organisation has it on the agenda, and the NHO and the trade union movement follow the recommendations with interest. In the autumn there will be consultation conferences, and then there will be what we politically choose to do. As usual, the working party has been at the forefront and has, among other things, recently promoted a proposal for a representative to focus on more mental health in school, knowledge among students and action. It would be a good start if the Storting could gather on this proposal. Yesterday we had a line chord shift in this room to take the most important one first. The father with it is that one is in danger of forgetting something on the road. Don't let that be the fate of the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee – there can be great consequences for students' learning in the future school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e631	This year's debate is marked by the situation we have with increased unemployment and poorer economic prospects. The refugee crisis, which we have not seen in post-war times, is also a feature of the debate. This requires that we think new. Conversion is the very word of these two days. Of course, then there are natural themes to get into research, school, education and competence, i.e. knowledge, and there is a broad consensus in this room about focusing on knowledge. Prime Minister Erna Solberg also took this up. But I noticed that there was a bit of a funny introduction to the theme, that of going about the Shanghai index, which is one way to rank universities in the world, and which is questionable, as the University of Oslo – which went on, as the Prime Minister said – takes a pinch of salt. It's hard to measure universities, but what I feel that maybe more problematic about drawing out the Shanghai index in a reasoning around knowledge is that it signals a further focus on ranking, on elite betting, and that government policy is along those lines there. More knowledge and skills are needed throughout the country, in all sectors, wherever in Norway, and whether you work in the public sector or in the private sector. Of course, we need to strengthen the competitiveness of business, but if we are to succeed in something close to the ambitions of the public sector, whether it is in the justice sector or in the transport sector, with which the government is represented right now, it requires much more pressure on the development of skills and research in the training of professionals and those who are to train engineers, those who are to train nurses, those who are to train in all the other welfare professions, and those who are to train teachers. There we have seen a lack of initiative from the government. There is a lot of elite bet – too much elite bet – in the university and higher education sectors, while we see that professional training does not receive the corresponding bet. Better quality is needed. More and better research is needed to achieve a promise – not least because it is absolutely necessary to achieve the goals we have in society. So I have high expectations for tomorrow, that there will be more money for knowledge and more money for research. But I also hope that you think about breadth, and you think that the whole country is going along, and that it won't be an elite bet again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e642	As I heard what Prime Minister Solberg said about the refugee situation, there is no reason to think anything but that you can join it. It is very nice that the Prime Minister in this debate tells the Stortinget that the government will promote an additional proposition in order to deal with the very current situation. She also invited, as Jonas Gahr Støre said earlier in the debate, to do. All of this is good. But there is still something that has been a review tone in this debate, and that I am sure the Prime Minister is well informed about, and that is what has been raised over and over again, namely the relationship with her Minister of Finance. It might start getting a little boring, this, because it's asked so many times. But we're in this situation here in Stortinget that despite all the good Prime Minister says, we don't get her to say that the Minister of Finance shouldn't have said that the decision of the Boicotte Storting was to be boycotted. We don't make her say that. She should, if she were to maintain her authority. But it doesn't surprise me, because that's how it goes when you take parties like the Advance Party into the government – right-wing populist parties claiming the right to run twice. It must be extremely tiring for those who represent the Right in this Chamber, to sit and listen to this, to hear that not one representative of the Advance Party is in a position to say something properly about where they really stand in two days. Allowing them to continue in this way is a new fundamental feature of Norwegian political reality resulting from the fact that the Progress Party has now become a government. And it's the Right's responsibility that they've brought them in. You can draw another -- funny, I kept saying -- end this. Does what we have now been told is that we are going to have a large additional proposition, that the policy of the Progress Party in this area is zeroed out altogether? Maybe that's the way it is. It would be good – but I doubt it, they'll be back. The representatives of the Workers' Party have taken this theme seriously in two days. And then I have a surprise in the end, and it's that I notice that none of the middle parties are taking it up – not the Christian People's Party, not the Left. They should do that with the commitment they have to the refugee sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e653	Now I have followed this debate both yesterday and today, and a symptomatic feature of several of the Workers' Party's articles is that you talk in large words about conversion. However, when mention is made of the Workers' Party's own measures to promote migration, only short-term countercyclical policies are mentioned. Countercyclical measures may be well and good, so does this government, but facilitating conversion is something quite different. It's a long-term work. The representative Gahr Støre mentioned two actions in his main post yesterday, as proposed by the Workers' Party, to facilitate the transition in Norway, namely the upgrading of the shuttle and a new permitting legislation. It may be well and good – I’m not going to discuss it now – but it’s definitely not measures that necessarily lead to change. We're not going to make any changes in this room, but we can do it with the means we have at our disposal. Common to those means is that they work in the long term, such as: development of the way and the way in which labour markets are increased – the larger the labour markets, the greater productivity, the greater the ability to convert – or to invest in research and development, both at the academic institutions and in enterprises, or something as banal as a commitment to the higher the skills of teachers at primary school or to entrepreneurs. If we're going to create change and new green jobs, which many people talk very much about from this pulpit, we're totally dependent on people who are willing to take risks. Now, when Innovation Norway cuts its processing time from 60 to 4 days, it lowers the threshold for people to take that risk, and when the government cuts the property tax, it makes it easier for entrepreneurs to operate. You can imagine running an IT company that has a brilliant new technology, and going out to get money from investors to make that technology better. You sell 20 pst. of the shares for 2 million. kr, which is to be used to further develop the company. Then the company suddenly has a paper value of 10 million. kr before you have earned a single penny. One might wonder whether a large additional tax bill contributes to promoting or inhibiting the ability and willingness of entrepreneurs to develop the company and take risks. This isn't a sought after fantasy example, but the everyday life of an amazing number of people who have a good idea and who want to bet. I have continued to benefit after 14 hours of debate to hear what the Labour Party's solutions are to facilitate the transition we need. All I hear is short-term measures. I think we can establish that the Workers' Party's efforts to meet the transition we are entering are 'too little, too late'.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e666	Through this debate these two days, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have claimed that it is new that the Workers' Party is continuously concerned with the transition – again through the article by Erik Skutle just before I went up to the pulpit. The fact that the Workers' Party has not done anything to convert Norway into a greener direction is wrong. Norway was at an early stage of introducing environmental taxes. The sulphur tax was introduced in 1971, the CO2 tax in 1991. A limited national CO2 trading system was introduced in 2005, which was extended and integrated with the EU ETS from 2008. So it makes companies and consumers get a price on their emissions, which stimulates smaller emissions and more migration. In 2007, the NOx tax was introduced, the car tax has been converted in a more environmentally friendly direction, the CO2 tax has been increased for domestic aviation, and the base charge for heating oil, the petrol tax and the diesel tax has increased. Right repeats to the boring what we didn't do in government, instead of actually doing something now when they're in government. In addition, the claims are often incorrect. Prime Minister Erna Solberg is talking about a green shift, but in several cases the left-center on Stortinget is taking the initiative. Electrification of Johan Sverdrup, coalesced out of the pension fund and climate law – the government disagrees. We are now in a demanding time. It's been 20 years since the total number of unemployed in the country was higher than it is now. There is no need to overdramatise, but there is reason to look at measures, especially when these developments are so clearly affecting one region and one type of industry. The most demanding is the situation in the West, in the oil and gas industries. Cost cuts in the oil industry reinforce the effect of the low oil price and have led to extensive rounds of redundancies. Comparing unemployment in Rogaland now with September last year, unemployment has increased by 70 p.m., and Nav believes that the number of unemployed will increase at the same rate until next year. At the same time, the government's own report shows that employment rates are increasing in most professions. But for those who now experience losing a job, there is little comfort in the fact that others get a job in other states, and there is little comfort in hearing the Prime Minister say again that there will be action in the government budget. Responses are urgent and actions from January 2016 can be too late. Unfortunately, we have a government that appears to be the paralysis of action when an entire region is struggling. I do not doubt for a second that the government takes the situation seriously, but from taking it seriously to taking action is unfortunately the long way for the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e692	It is positive that the Prime Minister encourages participation in the efforts needed to meet people in a dignified manner. It is particularly positive after an election campaign that has appeared as a pure parade march in small measure by the Progress Party. We've seen a party that has developed artificial contradictions, and has asked questions about helping our own elders or strangers. Noise has never been in the way of a good old age policy, but silence can stand in the way of a warmer society, especially when the contradictions that are drawn up are both dangerous and wrong. Although the Prime Minister was silent in his speech about the duality of the Advancement Party, many common people have raised themselves and their voices and distributed food and engaged themselves by collecting money and trying to find solutions to, for example, the problem. housing when politicians are stuck. The good spirit lives among people, who have never bought the picture that you have to starve your mother to feed a foreign brother. Because people have seen that image is fake. SV has gone to the elections to ask people to take the fight for a warmer society, for elderly care, school and environment, and at the same time to open up their communities to people on the run. I also have to comment on some articles about the great inheritance, about the inheritance from the red-green ones. For what was it really? Well, it was a Norway where the differences fell for the first time in 25 years, while the differences hit speed elsewhere in Europe. It was Norway as a model in gender equality policy, one of the world's best countries to live in and be a mother in. And it was a Norway with a youth unemployment that was one of the lowest in the world. In such a perspective, it's interesting to hear shellfish words about the red-green heritage, while another legacy is being petrified, and the differences are increasing: if you're rich, yes, you're going to be richer. I am not impressed by today's government's efforts in the serious situation that many people in our country experience. Getting hold of thumbnails of solutions that both red-green parties, LO and NHO promoted last year, is not being in the forefront. That's why I say: Be so good, we have more than better solutions for succession schemes that can be inherited, and I promise that it is completely free of charge!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e703	After following this debate, I have to say that I hear a working party trying to draw a picture that the idea of conversion was created by them, it has always been carried out by them, and it is those who have the right answers also for the current conversion. But what is the content of this story? Well, it's that the transition Norway is facing needs one thing in particular: a better law on permitting. I agree that what was done in the revised budget on legislation was correct and necessary. But is the answer to the situation we're in, always going to be a larger extension of the permitting code? Now, if we were to give people who lose their jobs in the oil industry the opportunity to go on leave for a year, is the next natural step then two years? But the Workers' Party is at least recognizable. As a rule, they are more concerned with areas of action than with jobs. While government party representatives have used this debate to make what is done to create and secure jobs visible, the Workers' Party uses its time to talk about a law on permitting. The representative Gahr Støre used two of his lines on the Prime Minister today to talk about it – not one word about measures to create and secure jobs. I can only interpret it as that the Labour Party fully agrees with all our actions here, so I look forward to boasting about this when the budget comes tomorrow. The representative Gahr Støre also said today, early in the Political Quarter, that we should not combine what is happening in the oil industry with the debate on conversion. I partly agree with that. But there is a very separate transition debate going on in the oil industry. It is about cost reductions, efficiency improvement and standardisation. Everyone agrees that the level of costs in the industry must be reduced. The industry must work more efficiently. But can it not also mean that there must be fewer working there? Cost level is also about the number of people employed. If the industry is to work smarter, it has to deal with fewer people in the future. Why, then, does the Labour Party think that the right answer now is to lock up labour in a industry that strictly enough would not have room for as many people as before? Is it not more reasonable to use free hands for other unresolved tasks? I believe the representative Gahr Støre's attitude to wait and see and hope for better times is incredibly passive. We're not going to change away from the oil industry, but we have to realize that it has to work less here in the future to ensure its sustainability. The responsibility to do so is to ensure a good transfer of skills to other industries, to facilitate the creation of new jobs and to ensure that those who have lost their jobs have another safe job to do in the future. Everything else is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e718	It was great to hear the Prime Minister today. She reminded us that this year it was 50 years since the oil age really started in Norway. The first announcement on the socket occurred in 1965, and history from now on to now is history of how our welfare society was built, and what wealth it has given us. We have to take into account the fact that innovative enterprises, through their competence, have both a maritime industry and an oil industry in the future towards more efficient extraction and operation. They've developed new technology. Norwegian-based maritime and oil service companies are among the world leaders in their field, and bidegreg to the highest degree to the green shift. This shows that Norwegian competence is very competitive in the oil and maritime industries. But the oil price has fallen dramatically. It reminds us that this is a cyclical industry, and it will take a long time for solutions other than oil to be competitive as raw materials. Despite the low oil price, several fields will be added to the Norwegian base in the years to come, and one expects that production will stay at the current level for many years to come. Of course, for the oil companies it is very important to equip themselves for a low oil price, and it must also be done by the Norwegian economy. Right went to elections in 2013 to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. It is important that the mainland industry in Norway also asserts itself internationally. We need more bones to stand on when oil production falls into the future. The first budget presented by the government, in 2014, was characterised by a number of good measures to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. This is the Norwegian business force that wants a lot more of today. What politicians can best contribute is an internationally good competitive environment for our industries. Maritime nutrition along the coast has so rusted the government for her maritime strategy. Feedback is very good, and the best thing we can do is to realize the strategy and the government platform. But as we have heard from several people here – the conversion has its price. What we experience is painful for those who lose their work, and we notice it very well in the West. But fortunately, we have very good public schemes to help the individual in a transitional phase. These arrangements have also strengthened the government. Enterprises have also been stimulated and the rate of additional labour market measures has been increased. But we should also have removed the property tax. Before the end of the year, 100 offshore ships are in operation. Many have lost their jobs, fleets have no job, boats have no income, and there are large storage costs. The renters have to pay taxes on wealth. This cannot go into length. Still talking to the Labour Party that the wealth tax is tax-free for the rich. They should definitely understand better. During the debate on the throne, there have been many speeches here, especially by the Workers' Party, which present policies that actually triggered the necessary change. One example of this is the debate that we also heard from the representative Tina Bru on the legislation on permitting. Postponing this conversion is not what Norway needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e733	Instead of arming the community against the future, this government's greatest investment has been huge tax cuts for the richest. We also see a government that is a little responsive to the needs of people around the country. We see a government that is more concerned with business neutrality than with pursuing an active industrial policy. We see a government running a policy that promotes strong privatisation and centralisation – at all, a government that takes Norway in the wrong direction. Many around the whole country are concerned with the national health and health plans announced in the autumn. I hope that when it is presented, it will help to create security around the country, and that it does not add up to a large-scale centralisation of emergency preparedness. The Workers' Party has made a significant contribution to the local economy in its alternative budgets. It is absolutely necessary means if we are to lift school, care for the elderly, climate, etc. We see a government that is not willing to compensate for the large tax failure experienced by the municipalities. In the summer we also experienced very strong reactions when the government sent out its proposal for the removal of property taxes on works and uses. Whether or not some regulatory adjustments may be needed can certainly be discussed, but this proposal involves a strong transfer of funds from municipalities to the State. Around 150 municipalities have protested strongly in their hearing opinions. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have indicated that they do not support the government, and I expect that the government does not promote this proposal. We see a strong increase in unemployment, especially in South and Western countries. The Labour Party package before the elections meets our challenges well in the region. The Node cluster has been a success. I am also pleased that the government finally came after us and allocated funds to the Mechatronic Innovation Lab, and I expect further follow-up. Another measure that the Workers' Party has taken, and which Node is committed to bringing up the activity, is the maintenance of wells in the North Sea. A commitment to green data centres will provide many jobs. It is important to establish an agreement with Statnett as soon as possible, so that fibre is added to the current cable that is now to be placed between Norway and Germany, which can otherwise save between 60 and 70 pst. Here, according to my view, the government has spent a long enough time, and the time is about to run away from us. Immediate action by the Council of State is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e750	In the debate, several of the representatives spoke about Norway’s need for more legs. It also agrees with the Right, and we show that through a policy that stimulates increased activity in different fields, a policy that solves important tasks today and that equips Norway for the future. Oil and gas are the main industries of the Norwegian economy, but most workers do not work directly in this sector. Most in private jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises of different sizes and with different things. We often talk about finding out what Norway is going to do after the oil. I don't think it's going to be one thing, but many things, and one of these is going to be the creative industries. If you are an artist, an artist, an artist, a script writer or an actor, you are, with a few exceptions, usually your own employer. The ringing and value creation of cultural industries has not been particularly high on the agenda until recently. The music cardist or scriptwriter is not just himself, they have a number of other people and companies to make their final product. The creative industries consist of many small enterprises and individual enterprises, which together constitute a growing industry in Norway. It is therefore gratifying that the government, through its policy, facilitates these. Simplifications for enterprises are also important for the cultural industry. It is also the founding policy of the government. In addition, for example: Innovation Norway some business courses specifically aimed at the cultural industry. This is very good. In addition, the government has announced the introduction of a new incentive scheme for foreign films. This scheme will give Norway a competitive advantage in line with what many other countries already have, namely that part of the VAT is refunded. For local film workers in North Norway and the West, it will be more business to participate in it, and local businesses and tourism will notice this on hotel nights, travel internally in Norway, etc. In addition, the final product will be good advertising for Norway and another good for an industry in Norway that also has a greater potential, namely the tourism industry. As you know, Norway won't be the cheapest, but we can be the best. For the creative industries, too, we need to ensure that we make sure that it is attractive to establish ourselves in Norway because Norway needs more legs to stand on, and this could be one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e761	In the autumn, the government will present a national health and hospital plan, in a situation where Norwegian hospitals have an average occupancy rate that is among the highest in OECD countries, and where only Israel and Turkey have a shorter lay time than us. In fact, Norwegian hospitals have too few beds for too many patients. Corridor Asians have been a common phenomenon, a serious threat to patient safety. The average occupation in Norwegian hospitals is currently 93 pst. There are eight percentage points above the internationally recommended limit for defence at 85 pst. High coating rates lead to reduced quality and care and increased risk. A large German study recently concluded that an over 92.5 occupancy rate significantly increases mortality among patients and increases disease among those added. The central party thinks that we have to introduce a ‘responsibility ceiling’ in Norway on 85 pst. coatings in ordinary hospital operations, as England has done. But both the government party and the Labour Party have publicly opposed this. It's alarming. In reply to questions from Stortinget, the Minister of Health has stated that all new hospitals in Health South-East, such as a new hospital in Drammen and a new hospital in Gaustad, are now planned for an occupancy rate of 90, which is far beyond the limits of what is justified. How can they defend this? The administration opens up to centralize all patient treatment requiring emergency surgery. The problem is that the government has not explained where these patients are then to be treated – in overcrowded hospitals in the big cities with a patient-hazarding occupancy rate? We need all the hospitals and local hospitals we have in Norway. We need to strengthen our capacity and quality not only in local hospitals, but also in the larger hospitals. We don't need privatisation and free treatment options, we need a political effort to get the public hospitals back on foot and an acceptance that we have a population structure and a construction pattern in Norway that requires a decentralised hospital supply that includes surgeons in emergency clinics. Sickhouse is a policy. The centre party invites a broad cooperation across the whole opposition on a quality model that prevents the government from centralising its health care system, where we are absolutely clear that Norwegian hospitals must be governed democratically, based on cooperation rather than on competition between hospitals and, of course, have a non-directly patient-hazardful coverage rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e778	Those who arrived in time yesterday got the article from the labor party leader, where he pointed out that the government of Solberg in the two years they've been running, hasn't led a policy that answers the challenges we're facing in society. Instead of equipping the community for the future, the biggest bet of the government has our tax cuts. This is money that could be spent on more teachers, more added to the care of the elderly, and help to those who need it the most. There's a wait-and-see attitude with the country's prime minister, while we need a government that understands and acts. Right has our passive, and the government has been behind a lot of things. I would like to mention the following in flong: permitting legislation, action sites. The government hesitated to send a too weak package to youth resolution. The initial wager does not appear, but a plan arrives in the autumn. Missing efforts towards nutrients such as wear and tear, and a long-term climate-friendly transition are completely lacking, as well as tax failures in municipalities. And then I'm pretty excited that the government says that the Stoltenberg government didn't start work on the conversion. This is completely wrong. One of the main dimensions of Message. St. 39 for 2012–2013, Variety of winners, as we presented in the spring of 2013, were just about transition in business. This message rejected the Solberg scheme to handle. So she didn't come up in Stortinget. Now it's been two years, and the pipe's got a different sound. The working party has spent these two years on both an agricultural platform, a fishing platform and a report on the possibilities of conversion – to name a few – and there will also be work on an industrial strategy. The Prime Minister refers to the changes in the law of leave as locking up the labour force. It is frightening that Norway should have a prime minister who does not take seriously and sees the value of conversion and rescuing internally in the companies. We in the Workers' Party believe that it is those added that are the most important capital of the enterprise, even outside the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e793	In this debate, part of the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party have punished the Centre for opposing centralising reforms. They believe that we do not have our own alternatives and that we are against everything, especially the centralisation reforms proposed by the government. When you stand in the middle of such debates, one sometimes gets a pretty surrealistic feeling, and I got that today. Yesterday, the Directorate of Police presented its recommendation and position on the centralisation of police and emergency services, and today the regional newspapers are many places a rather strange reading. In several counties, the biggest representatives who voted in favour of this centralisation go out and say that they should fight against the recommendation from the directorate. So they're going to act like lobbyists to a directorate about a decision they could make here in the Storting, but they've written off what they have open eyes to make. Because it is not a law of nature that the future organisation of police masters' offices is to be taken up in the Police Directorate. Until now, municipalities have both had the right to object to the closure of the Länsmannskontoret, and they have had to go to the Council of State to make changes in the structure. And with open eyes, the majority of people in our population have centralised and reduced the number of police districts from 27 to 12, but it has also simply abandoned the possibility of ruling over where these main seats of the police officers are going to be. This also applies to emergency centres, where they have said that co-location makes sense. When the proposal arrives, they will later become lobbyists. It's the same thing as not standing straight behind the decision that one actually was making, and the centralization that one has signed. It is a complete discharge from liability, from among others. The representatives Hoksrud, Rodum Agdestein and Vågslid. The centre party also wants changes in the police districts, but we want the so-called county model and believe it would be much more balanced. It's too far between Drammen and Kristiansand. It's too far from Bodø to Trondheim. We also believe that the Storting should take responsibility for the decision on where emergency centres and police officers should be located. That is why we have today put forward a proposal in Stortinget to give a new opportunity to do so, so that all those who are now concerned can have the opportunity to participate in a new assessment. There is reason to believe in what is now happening in the police: a strong centralisation, a lack of resources in the police districts, and so now we must also face a localization struggle, caused by the majority of the population of the sea and carried out by the same majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e806	Now, when we're in debate on the throne, we're halfway through the magnificence period. There have been significant changes. The Trontal uses the term ‘Norwegian model’, and in the past the Right has tried to give the impression that there is a common model that many in Norway have been behind and developed. Yes, Kåre Willoch still writes books about it in good conservative tradition. But the new thing is that with the entry of the Progress Party into the government we have got a government party whose party leader at his last national meeting before the election ten times attacked the Norwegian model in his lecture and said it stands in the way of the Norwegian people. That's politically interesting, because while the Right has previously held the role of brake block in developing what we know as the Norwegian model, the Progress Party has a clear liberalist political base. This has made us see a division that goes deep into the Right itself, because the Right has previously been held in the ears of the Centre Parties and the Conservative side of the Right has won. Now we see that the liberalist part of the Right has been supported by its colleague in government, and we see a completely different political direction. We see systematic attacks on the Norwegian model. We are looking at economic policy, where the new direction is less fragmentation, more oil money use, but less willingness to pay hard over the tax bill, and less distribution – which even the OECD says is that economic performance is poorer and more diverse among people. We're looking at it in collaboration with the parties, which is another carrier. We saw it in the context of the Working Environment Act, we have seen it in the context of the Permitting Rules, and we have seen it in the context of Sunday open shops – that the current government has no dialogue with the social partners and thus contributes to a positive development in society. We also see it on the third leg, which is the well-being, where, in last year's proposal for the state budget, we saw a significant cut in the benefits of those who have the least: cut in the child supplement for the disabled, 1 billion. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Norwegian model has served the Norwegian people well. It has won wonder and admiration in many other countries. It is now under direct attack by one of Europe's most liberal governments. It's not new ideas – it's old ideas, and it's not good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e819	In one of the previous speeches in the debate, I dared to miss the old Workers' Party, and it did not work out, among other things. Representative Myrli's house over. He made a visit to my old municipality of residence, South Odal, and wondered if it was the 67 percent that the Workers' Party achieved in the election the year I was born, or the 67 percent that the Workers' Party achieved in the election the first year that I had the right to vote, which I missed. I don't think I miss any of the parts. It'll probably do it instead of the Labour Party, because the numbers are a little bit different today. But at least I can tell that growing up with such numbers is a trace of inspiration and at least recruited me, even though entering the Right in the South Odal in the 1980s was the closest thing you could get to a youth uprising right there. In any case, what I miss – in order to clarify it – is the responsible Labour Party, which is not to reverse, and which is not to be heard, is to oppose the important reforms and matters with which we are now going to work together in the future. Because there is a loud protest against almost every reform and every little tab of Right Policy, even if one likes to accept it quietly at last. What it is all about is that we should come together to arm Norway for the future, and I miss the fact that the Workers' Party is more involved in it. What is also important to clean up, is the Haukeland Liadal representative’s statement on the state of the culture in Norway. A slightly sad image was painted with a sad voice about the cultural field as budget papers, and that it was less to culture, and the whole thing was crowned with that this was a wild loss. It's quite violent to say. For in the period 2013-2015 – when the current government managed the budget – the government budget has grown by 5.6 pst. In the same period, the budget for the cultural field has grown by 9.6 p.m. It may not be a ‘wild loss’, a ‘budget paper’ or a ‘minor to culture’. In addition, if you include the games, which also go to volunteering, culture and sport, the transfers from the public to the field have increased by almost 15 pst. So 2.6 times more than the general growth in the state budget. So we have good reason to be proud of the cultural budgets that the government has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e830	I was not allowed to finish my previous post, so I continue where I left off. It was linked to the tendering of reintroduction companies in Norway by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. These are enterprises that have so-called organised offers linked to reintroduction, follow-up and sheltered measures. When more than 60 pst. of what is being done today in the country, is now lost to private, large-scale actors, with the justification that there is a desire for greater diversity in bidders, that is the very opposite. This is serious for the individual who has the organised offer, but also for communities that have small and large corner stone companies carrying out these tasks. There are serious effects of privatisation and outsourcing of key institutions and tasks that the blue-blue government is now carrying out, affecting vulnerable groups in our society, which are in stark contrast to what the government is saying and trying to give an impression of. Another vulnerable group affected by government policies are patients who need a good mental health service. We now see that St. Olav's hospital, among others. has proposed a reduction in the allocation of €3 million to the Orkdal District Psychiatric Centre. NOK, which means five bed places or four years' worth of work. It's about centralisation from the districts into the cities. We also see that it is proposed to close the emergency facility at Orkdal Hospital with the reason that it is more effective to add it to Trondheim – to St. Olav’s hospital. This, of course, affects those living around the districts, and the good health provision that is there, and not least all the good trade union workers working at the DPS, at hospitals and other health services in the region. At the election now in the 428 municipalities we saw that there was a clear red-green wind. It was a clear warning to the right that we do not want more centralization. We want more decentralization, where people live, and the problems have to be solved there. We, who belong to the non-conservative group here in Stortinget, want a fairer distribution that ensures good and safe welfare services across the country, and not a tax cuts policy that dismantles our country bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e842	Those outside this house who have heard the debate, I think I'm left with a question after these two days here: How are we going to meet the transition – with better framework conditions for businesses, or with increased taxes for Norwegian owners, with creating new jobs, or as the Labour Party leader surprisingly said in Political Quarter this morning, waiting for maybe better times to come? If this is the response from the party leader of the Workers' Party – and the response from the Workers' Party – to the change we are facing, there is reason for concern, because the question is above all whether we should bet on jobs or action places. Are we going to meet the transition to reform, or, as the Labour Party wishes, turn the clock back and reverse the absolutely necessary reforms? Although the Workers' Party is trying to make history in a different way, the Right has long talked about the need for conversion. By 2015 at the latest, the Labour Party was most concerned with drawing a solar image of the Norwegian economy. There was no sign of concern that the unemployment rate could increase, on the contrary, the Labour Party was concerned about highlighting the low unemployment rate. Some people in this room believe that companies that make less money live well with paying more taxes. I do not agree with that. On the contrary, it has rarely been as important to lower taxes as it is now. We need to create new jobs, and they need to get into projects that can be realized quickly. For this reason, it is so important that the government pays attention to maintenance, especially in the transport sector. However, in the two package of measures that the Workers' Party has now presented, there is not one krona for the maintenance of transport – not one krona has been set aside by the Workers' Party for maintenance on transport, measures that we know will be involved in in the short term and create many jobs around the country. Of course, the budget is important, but it also depends on our success in making important changes to equip Norway for the future. Therefore, the government has amended the Working Environment Act, which is why we have established a railway reform. Then it's wrong, as we now go into it, to say that these reforms are going to be reversed. We can't wait for better times to come. We must be forward-looking, we must ensure offensive development of the country. Then we can't turn the clock back and reverse reforms and increase taxes for both people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e853	This debate is approaching the end, and then it is reasonable to see what has been the hallmark during the discussion. I will go so far as to say that even tin soldiers set up in sequence and row will appear as more committed than the Right and the Progress Party's representatives have emerged as when they have defended the government's policy. These are representatives in the defence position. They say they're not in debt for the oil price drop, they're not in debt for the increasing unemployment. That's not what it's about. It's not about debt distribution, it's about taking responsibility. The fact that Norway today has the largest unemployment rate of over 20 years is on their guard. I repeat, it happens on their guard. It must be reasonable to expect more. The Prime Minister says they have a policy for conversion, but in reality they have a policy for increasing disparities. It was those who proposed changes in property taxes, a tax regime that led to 50 pst. The tax went to the 5 pst. The richest in the country. Independent experts believe that it is difficult to get into tax cuts that are less conducive to growth and more provocative to differences than the government has come with. They have a family policy that can in the long run help to make family life and work more difficult when they have proposed to increase cash support, when they have led a policy that can lead to higher child care prices. The sum of this draws in a direction that makes it harder to participate in the work of young children's parents. They have a policy of increasing social segregation when they want to increase the levels of private actors, especially in schools. These are not changes that will occur overnight and will change Norway overnight. What this is about is that their policies are drivers of increasing differences in Norway, not drivers of small differences. It weakens our ability to meet the demanding future that we are facing here. Leading experts, OECD, IMF, all point out that increasing inequality is potentially damaging to economic development and growth, and it also reduces the potential for conversion. Then it says to see if the budget will change on this tomorrow, whether it will equip us better for the future, or whether we will continue to bet on drivers for increased differences in Norway. This is ideological drive, it's not professionally supported, and it brings me to my last point, namely ideological legitimation. Because there is striking how elusive the Prime Minister is in the face of a quote from the Minister of Finance from the election campaign to sabotage the government's policy of settlement, because then the Prime Minister gives his legitimacy to the failure of the Progress Party to attempt to play on negative reactions to refugees. It's a legitimacy the prime minister shouldn't be comfortable giving.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e864	Since I became a big-time representative, I have learned the importance of explanation of vote. After reading the speech of the throne, I believe that I need some explanations of reading. The government writes that our welfare society is built up by work – working over generations. I fully agree with that. The fact that people are at work is also essential to the self-esteem of individuals. Knowing that you actually mean something, that you contribute to the community, gives people a good feeling, that in turn gives you the desire and desire to contribute even more. There is now a need for explanations of reading, for how has the government shown workers that they value their work? The Prime Minister said today in his speech that tax is important. I agree with her. The government writes in the Common Era that the tax system should be structured in such a way that it contributes more to growth and value creation. That sounds promising. The working party will contribute to it in a known style. But what has the government done so far? Well, they've spent the big money on tax reliefs that have largely ended up in a few neighborhoods in Asker and Bærum. Ordinary workers have received a few dollars in tax reliefs. And raise your hands on those who believe that ordinary workers will want to give something extra when they see what the government of those degrees prioritizes. Where did the significance of work come from? I have been so lucky that I have been involved in building up a business from the ground up. And yes, there's a lot that's going to flap to succeed with a business start-up. But I dare say that a key factor is that you have the workforce involved, that everyone who works in the company feels that they matter, and without them there is actually no business. The same applies to the nation of Norway. If we're to succeed in conversion, and if we're to succeed in building tomorrow's societies, we also have to help workers feel that they're just as valuable as those with big fortunes. Unfortunately, the government's tax policy has not given them that feeling so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e875	It is always interesting to listen when socialist colleagues here in Stortinget talk about competitive outsourcing and privatisation in the care of the elderly. It may seem to me that red-green politicians are so afraid of a diversity in our municipal services that they don't even know the difference between the concepts. Privatisation is when you pay for a service yourself, outsourcing is when the public pays for the service received by the user. I'm not afraid of competitive outsourcing, but I'm terribly afraid of the great, unfortunate variations in quality that we have in Norwegian care for the elderly. That is why I am pleased – and it is popular to talk about ‘on our watch’, as a nurse, I can say – that on our watch we have a government that is concerned with measuring quality, which is concerned with building competence in this care. In the case of differences in quality, the distinction between non-profit-making or private-run nursing homes and public-run municipal nursing homes is certainly not followed. Therefore, the example of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes yesterday on dementia care in Finnmark may be important in a debate on quality, but it is a completely flawed diagnosis to believe that the quality challenges of elderly care in Norway are about who provides the service. Knag Fylkesnes’ party leader, Audun Lysbakken, and I visited the Mangler Out Home together with the Health Committee this winter, a nursing home run by private on contract with the Municipality of Oslo. It was a fantastic meeting with management and employees, who dedicated driving dementia care with one goal in mind, to create a good, meaningful everyday life for sick patients with severe dementia diagnoses. And Oslo measures quality. Since 2010, ideal and private scores have been about the same in quality as measured against the quality objectives developed and used by the Municipality of Oslo for its nursing homes. Privates scored about as well on quality as the ideals, which have much higher operating costs, and significantly better than the municipal ones, which also have higher operating costs than the private ones. So the debate on the diversity of care for the elderly reminds me of the ideological struggles about diversity that I was involved in the local government when I became a baby's mother for the first time in the late 1980s. I envy toddlers the freedom of choice and the diversity they have today. They can choose between an innumerable kindergarten with a pedagogically driven profile, or there may be a nursery in Eidsvoll with a few kids. In fact, I think it's high time we won the same kind of freedom of choice for the older generation. I am not a tin soldier, as one of the previous representatives chose to characterize us. I am a politician who has a definite and important ambition to create better care and a much greater diversity in these services over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e886	Let me start with a little comment to Hofstad Helleland. She informed in the debate instead that in the Political Quarter she had heard Jonas Gahr Støre say: Let the companies have the opportunity to wait – tied up with the permitting code. If there is a Right-wing approach to the proposal that was made yesterday to amend the Permitting Code, I understand that the Right has a hard time being involved in such a proposal. Then the Right has actually lost its nerve in what is going on in the cyclical part of Norwegian business now. It is clear that what is included in the proposal we have made on changes to the legislation on permitting is absolutely necessary for those companies, not to lock workers into those companies, but to ensure that those companies actually have an opportunity both in terms of conversion and in view of a situation in which, if necessary, the economic situation would change. But this only goes into the range of rhetorical points put forward by the Right and the Progress Party in this debate. The second is that they have consistently waived any kind of responsibility for the present through the debate. Almost every other right-wing representative is up and says, after eight years of red-green government. That's when I ask myself the question: isn't it time for the Right Party and the Advance Party to take responsibility for the situation they're in now, instead of blaming others and what has actually been done over two years ago? They have to face up to the challenges they face, take responsibility for them and try to show some way into the future. But I haven't seen and heard so much commitment to it in the course of the drumming debate that we're about to have been through. It's actually that after eight years of red-green rule the situation in the country was different, significantly different, than it is now. We had created 350,000 more jobs, 70 pst. in the public sector. We built a strong community, had secure employment for employees and employees, and we didn't have to destroy the Working Environment Act, as the Right Party and the Progress Party have just done to create flexibility and room for action for employers to trample on workers. That's the situation. It is the one you now have to take responsibility for the massive unemployment that blames inwards. One's talking about conversion. Yes, the first thing you did was throw Message. St. 39 for 2012–2013, which was presented by Minister of Industry Trond Giske, and which contained just themes on how to meet the time we entered, because it was uncertain. But you threw it right into the trash bin because you didn't have the ability to go into the topic of conversion at the time you took over. It is time for the Right Party and the Advance Party to take responsibility for the reality in which it is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e897	I don't think I've heard the same debate as the Aasland representative, and now I'm just as confused about the debate as he is about numbers. Because at least I can give the Workers' Party that it was probably 70 pst. In the private sector, jobs were created. But if Aasland had also heard, work, activity and transformation are the headlines of the throne and of the challenges ahead. I have to say that the impression I'm left with after the debate is that you haven't taken up the challenge Norway is actually facing. I've said many times that the fact that our exchange relationship with the rest of the world is reversed creates enormous challenges that we don't quite have the solution to. Then I heard Gahr Støre say yesterday that we cannot pick the winners, but support up under industries with natural advantages. So you've talked a lot about this. But I thought the most important natural heritage we have in Norway is competence. There's actually no one in this room who can say where the good ideas show up, but we can say a lot about how we're going to grow them. Then there is no doubt that the government's solutions and government's policy over the last two years, which I also expect to continue in the budget, with efforts on entrepreneurs, on taxpayers, on equity in Norwegian business, on transport, on knowledge, are the solutions that hit most, and that do not pick industries that will win, as I hear my colleague from Hedmark, Knut Storberget, go back to. I would like to remind you that Hedmark was not exactly the winner of the oil economy created by the Workers' Party. It's also another thing that amazes me, and it's Gahr Støre's embrace of the Menon report. Yes, what did it say? It said that all tax havens work. They seem a little bit different, but they all work. Grünfeld, who was the leader of the sample, also said that you can reverse the conclusion: all tax increases will weaken investment. That's what the Workers' Party will answer. There are two assumptions in that report. One is that we have the perfect capital market. The second is that it doesn't matter where ownership belongs. Both parts are very unrealistic -- I'll almost say on earth. There are a lot of reports that show that ownership is important, including where you invest. What you also need to be aware of is that the report requires perfect capital markets to bring in foreign capital when Norwegian capital is not there. Ergo wants the Workers' Party to have a greater share of foreign ownership in Norwegian business. You're going to have to start to answer this soon, when you're actually facing a pretty big transformation. We know that it is in the companies that the new jobs come, and the Workers' Party does not have one solution for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e906	There are a lot of strong words about competitors and friends and what they've done and not done about conversion, last from the representative, Gundersen. Right Erik Skutle said earlier that conversion is long-term work. I fully agree with that. There is continuous work, but now there is an extra need for effort because we have invested too much on oil, so that the need for conversion becomes enormous when the prices of oil and gas fall. The question then is what to convert to. We must be specific here. What industries should we bet on? It is not enough – as the representative Gundersen talks about – with competence. Competence is seaworthy. Competence must always be improved. But there's competence in what you're going to use it for. What industries do you have in an international market to be competitive in relation to the major international challenges, where climate is one of the major ones? We have to give the content of the green shift. We have to give content to what we want, concretely. There are so many families and businessmen who have been disappointed by Storting's overall, general rafts that you have not been able to trust. Under the red-green government, we got a forest package that invited us to 500 million. kr. investment in Investinor. It's proven not to work. The state councils that took part in it must be involved and take maritime criticism in order that it did not work. The right had no better suggestion. So we're all really in the same boat. We have to get down to the practical. We have to give the content of the expression "green shift". The Central Party has submitted a proposal for a 10 billion state green investment company. kr. There are no comments on the proposal. There is no alternative proposal from the Right on how to industrialise the products that have their basis in renewable natural resources. I think that people and business people need clearer signals from Stortinget about what we're putting into it that we're now talking about so nicely. One must have predictability, one must have profitability. Young people need to find interest in learning in these industries that one sees have a hope for the future. But then we have to change the economic rules. It's going to cost you a lot of money. We still have the opportunity in Norway. We have to bet now, because if we don't, it becomes harder and harder to take those investments when the problems get even bigger than what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e919	This has been an important debate. It may not be the most exciting drumming debate I've ever had, but I still think that the day we've had today is going to affect Norway's cottage. First of all, I am thinking about the invitation that the Prime Minister gave to a broad tax settlement. It's a follow-up to something that's happened in Norway before, and that's been a success. In this room, we have found good, broad tax settlements that have both led to more efficiency and increased resource availability. What we're standing in front of now is that we're forced to deliver on something that no one in this room has actually promised. As far as I know, there is no political party that has promised the big reductions in corporate tax, but it is absolutely necessary because the countries we compete with have done just that. The second is what the Prime Minister said about the refugee situation. It's a dramatic situation, which will be demanding. Europe stands ahead of what the UN High Commissioner has said is a ‘moment of truth’. The numbers that the Prime Minister presented today just show what jobs we're facing. Here's the receiver that needs to be dimensioned up, and we have to be ready for the challenge we're facing. At the beginning of this election campaign, the Minister of Finance encourages municipalities not to accept refugees. It becomes paradoxical with the situation that the Prime Minister was doing well today. I said, when the finance minister said that it doesn't work, and I mean the words are very good with the situation we have today. I have noticed what the Prime Minister has said. She has been very clear about what is the government's policy, but I would have wished that the finance minister too had used the first possibility she has, when she is in this room, to accept the challenge of Jonas Gahr Støre to say what she stands for in this matter as the Council of State. I have noticed that she has not done, and I have to say it is very clear who is this government's number 1 when you see how one has behaved. There will be more immeasurable who is this government's number 2, even after this throne debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e930	In yesterday's debate, Hørres Kårstein Eidem Løvaas said that he missed the old Workers' Party. When I challenged him in the debate earlier today on what he really meant by it, he admitted that he probably does not miss the old Workers' Party. And I don't think he's ever done that either. But Løvaas and Right often say that because it is used in a strategy where they believe that those who were leaders of the Workers' Party earlier were much better – a kind of strategy to swear the current leaders. Under Stoltenberg we heard it: «This would never happen under Harlem Brundtland.» Now we hear it under Støre: «This would never happen under Stoltenberg.» But the Right has never had the sense of neither Stoltenberg nor Harlem Brundtland. That's the truth. The right has never agreed with the leaders of the Workers' Party, nor is it today. For the Labour Party and Social Democracy, there has never been a question of whether we should have either state or private. We need both – both market and governance. None of the parts are targets in themselves. There's nothing wrong with the market. It has its advantages. But the market can never solve the societal challenges. The market can never be a sensible distribution policy. The market can never deal with health care, education or poverty reduction. The market must operate within a democratically defined framework. Thus, we reap what some might call two systems – the market system and a governance system. That's why there's no difference, as I hear some people from the Right now saying, between switching and taking care of what we have. There is no contradiction between good rights for workers and high productivity in business. More often than not, there is much evidence that there is a clear link between good rights for workers and productivity. There's no difference between taking care of the business we have and facilitating new industries. We have to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e937	I believe there are two things that have dominated this debate. It's work and conversion, and it's refugees. I would like to stress very clearly that the Labour Party's policy over eight years in government, the red-green years, was the year of conversion, 350,000 new jobs, major public sector reforms, major pension reform, and in 2013, according to the World Bank, Norway was the sixth best country to invest in. It was a good inheritance to pass on. But it's the responsibility of the watch now when we're discussing politics today and towards 2020, and what we're doing, among other things. for the 120 000 unemployed. I want to refute the idea that having a law on permitting that responds to the challenges is to wait and see and have people on action – on the contrary. What you hear in the companies is that by being able to use the permitting code you take care of what Gundersen thought was the most important thing, namely the competence. And the companies shouldn't wait and look at better times, as someone allowed me. No, they're going to prepare to meet times that are changing, and then the employees are the key to succeed with it. To Gundersen I just have to say about picking winners, betting on industries and the region he comes from: one of the reasons why things are going well in those areas today, is that they have succeeded in switching, and the policy has played on teams, built up under industries that are now doing well, and we should keep doing that. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, and we hear the government talk about it, I would say that we have gone and waited for the company's start-up, waiting for the company to start, waiting for action. We have put it forward in our alternative budgets and spent money on it rather than on the big wealth tax laws. So for refugees, and then I want to say one thing: this government said it would listen more to the Stortinget. The Prime Minister was not present when the debate began yesterday, and she arrived late at the end of today, and the Minister of Finance is not here. Several of the parliamentary leaders have asked the Minister of Finance to answer a question. She's not here, and she's not answering. Does she say that she advises the municipalities not to accept refugees at a time when her chief, the prime minister, says that it is the national virtue, and where we other parties say that we should stand up, here we must stand together? The persuasion debate taught me to be the opposition's debate. It's the opposition's ability to ask government questions and discuss the plan presented, and then I respond to this approach. So Siv Jensen will not clarify, and Erna Solberg will not be able to answer it on her behalf. Then I have to disagree a little with the representative Hareide. Yes, it's true that this government has a number. 1st@item: inlistbox It is a little unclear which responsibility of the government no. 2 takes, but if there's some ambiguity about the government's no. 2's responsibility, it's a problem for the government's no. 1st@item: inlistbox It is a problem for the Prime Minister that she has a number. 2 which encourages that this will not be done. This could have been clarified in this debate. When the Minister of Finance chooses not to answer an overall opposition really, including among her cooperation parties, ask if, I believe this is an expression of great weakness in the executive power and leadership of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e952	There has been a plenary debate with clear distinctions in terms of leave, and also in relation to a number of other questions. The great reformer of the government, which was so prominent in last year's debate on the throne, has been virtually absent in this year's debate on the throne, and, to the extent that it has been commented on, it has appeared through some attempts to stigmatise the critical voice of the Central Party. We're living with that, we're doing it. We know that the work on these so-called reforms, the centralisations proposed by the government, will continue, and a critical debate is needed on what this really means, and on what consequences it has, just as a critical debate on the international free trade agreements is also needed, which intervenes in a completely different way in domestic policy than before, because we know that they can weaken both local maritime governance and the role of the Storting. We are going to spend a lot of effort and resources on receiving refugees and asylum seekers as well as integrating the same groups. The centre party is concerned that resources must already be invested in the integration phase, because it is going to be a broad and long-term work, and it has to go on increasing the provision of housing for people, it has to be that we have municipalities that are able to give them opportunities for work, it has to go on speeding up the validation of skills and knowledge, and it also has to go on mobilising the voluntary sector that we have seen so positively in the last few weeks. But like the representative Gahr Støre, I have to say that in the work that is also going to require a broad majority in the Storting, it is important that we know where we have the government, not just no. 1 of the Government, but also No. 2 in the government. It is not important that we only know where we have the seven government councils of the Progress Party, but it is important that we know whether we have a Progress Party in government and a completely different Progress Party in the Stortinget, because this work is going to require the breadth and anchoring of many parties in the Stortinget. If we are to be part of that work from other parties, we must know with certainty that both sides of government are behind both numbers. 1 and No 2 in the government, and there's also a total government group in the Stortinget that's behind it. I have to say that is the biggest open question that remains after this throne debate, and it is the Prime Minister who has to clear up because it cannot stand in the way of the important work that needs to be done in the future. I believe that the Prime Minister has a responsibility to both No. 2 in the government and the big business groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e964	This has been a debate with a lot of focus on industrial policy. I am surprised that we have three ministers responsible for industry in Norway, and none of them have been sent to take part in this debate, either the Minister for Industry, the Minister for Fisheries or the Minister for Agriculture. Another sign of this debate is that the concept of 'transition' is supposed to be something that the blue-blue government has invented and that the business community has not been involved in in the past. There is an error ending. Similarly, the government takes the credit for finding out about the bioeconomy strategy. A presents it as if one has decided to develop a bioeconomy strategy. It will be a very important measure to create new jobs, but it is therefore the Storing that has forced the government parties to join in developing such a strategy. One can also, when one hears the debate, get the impression that under the previous government, he worked right to have a less offensive oil and gas policy. I don't recognize myself in that story, but it fits the story that best suits the day. I believe that the government has a total disclaimer of responsibility for the situation in which Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers are now in. There is much of the same disclaimer as the Prime Minister in terms of refugees and the Minister of Finance's call to the municipalities to say no. A prime minister who takes responsibility would have made it clear that this statement is not acceptable, and people are right to respond to the double communication with which the Right and the Advance Party operate. It may also seem that the government has a little difficulty interpreting what is going on around the country, whether it is about refugees, business or the discussion of community reform. So it's been presented from this pulpit, from the government parties, that the election result gave support of 88 pst. to the government's municipal reform, because one has added together the votes of the Blue Alliance and the Workers' Party, which then received 88 pst. I think it's a sylt thin use of numbers. My appeal is that the government clearly captures the outbound flows, no matter what the issue is, and that it is now time to take responsibility for the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e981	Siv Jensen has now had a little more than 15 hours of debate on the subject to answer a simple but often repeated question in this debate. The representative Arnstad has asked the question, the representative Hareide has asked the question, the representative Gahr Støre has asked the question – I have also asked the question – and it must be allowed to expect the Minister of Finance to answer that question when it is so clear that so many parties on the Stortinget want answers. I'm going to be the first one to argue that there should be room, even within government cooperation, to mean different things. It pointed out to the Prime Minister in the reply earlier today. But it's still a credibility issue for a government when you talk to two tongues about something that's not just about disagreement, but is about whether or not to actually implement the decision of the Storting and the government's policy or not. The reality is that we have a campaign behind us where half of the government has been campaigning to sabotage what they want us to trust to carry them out from their council posts. Then it is reasonable to ask the Minister of Finance to clarify, here in Stortinget, what she believes today about what she herself said in August, and what her attitude to what the Prime Minister says is that we should count on the government to be united behind it. The only way to interpret Siv Jensen's lack of attendance to answer is that it is so unpleasant to answer the question that she would rather not. Then the answer from Stortinget must be that we're going to keep asking that question until we get the answer, so it's really up to the government to choose whether this should continue beyond the harvest or not. At some point we'll get an answer, but the best thing would be to get it now. SV promotes two proposals for voting today. One is the proposal that Norway should follow Germany and disregard the Dublin agreement on the return of Syrian refugees to other European countries and on the return to countries such as Italy and Hungary. Of course, I hope to receive support from several parties until today. In addition, we are promoting proposals to conclude long-term agreements with non-profit actors on the operation of asylum recipients, so that we can create stability and security for them, and to avoid that the refugee crisis leads to the commercialisation of refugees in Norway. I would encourage other parties to support those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e994	That's when the call is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e997	We have witnessed a very tired Progress Party these two days, a government-tired Advance Party, quite clearly. Parliamentary leader of the Progress Party was heard yesterday more as a worn-out auditor than as a parliamentary leader: the framing of different actions and little visions and little visions. We are now witnessing the greatest refugee disaster we have seen in Europe in 70 years. Then the responsible state council, Anders Anundsen, sits here, and he must be very tired when he chooses not to take the floor in this debate, which is so big and so profound for our society. The responsible state council sits here without saying a single word and obviously tries to hope that it will pass, so he will not believe anything about it in the staging room, and postpones it as long as possible. It is incomprehensible that the responsible State Council does not participate in such a debate, which is so far-reaching for the whole of Europe and for Norway. And it is incomprehensible that the Prime Minister has not received the Minister of Justice when this has been promised as a main theme of so many parties, and that the Prime Minister allows the Minister of Finance, who had it played out at the beginning of the election campaign – she was also the Council of State when she had it played out – not to clarify that it was an electoral campaign that she does not have as a councillor. Obviously the strategy has been: let the FrPs sit as quietly as possible, let them have as little views as possible, and then we'll hope that this goes over. Then it's also interesting to listen to Gunnar Gundersen, a business spokesperson in the Right, who criticises an active industrial policy. Is that what we need now is an active industrial policy – how we can launch new measures to create new jobs, just as we did in the oil and gas sector in its time, where we created our own tax rules and took our own initiatives to create new business, just as we have done in the forest sector, where we have used many fiscal instruments to create new jobs and create predictability, as we did when we spent a lot of money on three-based innovation programmes to create new products and new jobs. That's the opposite of a passive industrial policy we now need. We need an active policy where, as politicians with business, we take bold action and not just sit and hope that the macroeconomic picture will change, and things will go over. Then I have to take a little visit to the police reform. I read Varden this morning in the early days, where Bård Hoksrud – he is obviously not quite tired yet, because he is so angry at the government – says that it is completely incomprehensible that there should not be his own police officer in Telemark, and he suggests that a new police headquarters be built on the border between Telemark and Vestfold, as a compromise proposal. So dear Bård Hoksrud, the next time it comes the kind of centralization reforms, you should wake up before you vote for them, and then you should go to your own council and say: You should turn around, it was a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1008	I feel that the headline of the entire debate on the throne is very good: work, activity and change. I have the impression that there is quite a consensus in the hall. And to Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum: My point was that I mean the policy that the government is pursuing, perhaps the most active business policy you can pursue. You give everyone opportunities and build an infrastructure, build up knowledge, make everyone better able to succeed. I guess that's where the answer is. I am glad that Gahr Støre listened to my post, but he did not answer. Since many in the Workers' Party have used the chance to use the Menon report to criticise the government's tax regime, I believe that in fact you should get an answer. The first is that Menon and Grünfeld were very clear that lower taxes give rise to increased investment, no matter how the tax relief comes. So, as I said instead, it's different effect of them according to that report. Grünfeld also said that the conclusion can be reversed. So: Does the Workers' Party believe that the solution in today's situation to the migration requirement in Norway is increased taxes, which will give lower levels of investment? I would like an answer to that question. Then I also pointed out that there are two prerequisites for the conclusions of the report that are quite interesting. One is to require efficient capital markets. The second is that you assume that it doesn't matter where ownership belongs. I think both of them are very wrong. If we look at the statistics, we know that SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – are the ones that provide new jobs, and that is where much of the innovation in the Norwegian economy comes from. If we look at the ownership of those enterprises, there is almost no foreign ownership – in the statistics there is almost no. Foreign ownership is in the major corporations, and it is also state ownership. So there is nothing to suggest that we have efficient capital markets in Norway. Lack of capital is a major challenge for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, on which we need to build in the future. So the Workers' Party says that it makes sense to discriminate against the capital of those companies. There is hardly any other country in the world that believes that it is a sensible strategy at a time when we are facing conversion, to discriminate against its own ownership, and in particular the ownership that may be interested in investing in that type of enterprise. I think you should actually have a little answer to that. When conversion, work and activity have been the main headline throughout the debate, one must also respond to how to provide the capital needed to build solid jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1019	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1022	SV has two proposals to do something about the major challenges we face on the refugee page. One is national, namely a new housing scheme. So that's number. 2 in the government that we are going to sabotage the settlement system we have today, which does not work well enough. This will make you unable to handle the responsibility. And the Minister for Housing and Integration is also sitting here and has not said a word. The second proposal is to deal with this in a European international context, namely to use the humanitarian clause in the Dublin Agreement in order not to return to countries where the system is in the process of collapsing. I heard the Prime Minister at the pulpit refer instead to the proposal as if it were not going to return anyone at all. I expect a little more factuality and a little more seriousness from the Prime Minister, to take that proposal seriously. It is the other European country that sees that they must now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1029	I have not commented on the proposal from SV at all earlier in the debate. I have commented on the statement that we should not continue to send people out in general and concentrate on registering. I still believe that if we do not return people who have not been allowed to stay in Norway, we will actually just make sure that more people come, and you weaken the institution of asylum. After listening to all the requests made by state councils, I suggest that next year's debate be done a little longer. With the number of possible places for the government to participate in the debate, we have chosen to talk about transport and infrastructure, we have chosen to talk about health and care for the elderly, we have talked about the foreign policy situation – not least in the area of security policy – and we have given the Minister of Labour a few minutes because we believe that unemployment is important. Then there is no room for so many more government councils. But if you want more speaking time, I think that all our state councils would have liked to have stood there and made posts and explained what they're doing in their areas. Then, of course, you can think that transportation is not important, that health is not important, that a special foreign policy situation with a defence situation that is different from that in many years is not important to include in the census. That's what I meant, and it's been important. There is also no tradition that the Minister of Finance is present during the debate on the throne. Most people know you're working on the financials and the budget for tomorrow. I don't think I've ever seen the Minister of Finance sitting here for a long time during some throne debate. I have, as I said, relatively long seagoing time from this hall. So I would say to the representative Myrli: there is no difference between good conditions for employees and high productivity. On the contrary, high productivity is a prerequisite for good conditions for employees. This is a matter on which the Right has been concerned for many years. Without high productivity in Norway, we are able to save neither the high wage level, the high level of private welfare nor our public welfare in the future. This goes right into a discussion we've had over many years before we got into the situation of the oil price drop we're in now, that's the need to ensure future welfare. There is nothing new – it is quite right: the need to ensure the welfare of the future, the need to convert the Norwegian economy to have more legs to stand on has been known for a long time, but the difference is that we have a government that does something about it, unlike the previous government, which every year prioritised things other than what contributed to growth capacity in the years to come. This is why it becomes even stronger when it becomes apparent that the impact and need for conversion are even faster. But there's a big difference between the transition we're facing today and the transition we've been facing in the last 30 years. Then we have replaced low-wage jobs with high-wage jobs. Now we don't know where the new jobs are coming from. This is a bigger challenge than Norway has faced in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1040	The debate on the throne is one of the most important debates in this Chamber. It's drawing the long lines, it's drawing cooperative constellations, it's dealing with the big and important questions. Two years ago, many were excited whether the bourgeois majority would end up in a four-party government, or possibly what minority government we would get. When it was clear that the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left could not sit together in government, one was anxious whether the Right would choose to go to the centre parties with the Advance Party as a supporting party or go to the Advance Party with the Christian People's Party and the Left as a supporting party. Right chose the Advance Party, joined the government with them and expected support from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Of course, the right could have chosen the opposite, walked towards the centre and had the Progress Party as a supporting party. It had been unlikely that the Progress Party had been the guarantor of a continued Stoltenberg government. Today there is no one in this Chamber who, after the debate, imagines that the Christian People's Party and the Left will enter the government that is now ruling. It appears to be running on board a sinking ship. What is more alarming is the incredible lack of enthusiasm that this government project radiates in this room. Where did Siv Jensen, who, after the debate on the throne in opposition, talk about all the solutions she had to health problems, in the hospital sector, in the care of the elderly, in retirement, in unemployment, in public bureaucracy and on savings in the state budget? Where did the development of industry come from? The Minister of Industry has not shown up in this Chamber – and the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of Finance, all those responsible for contributing to the growth of employment. The Minister of Labour is responsible for managing unemployment. It is a big and comprehensive task – with this government there is a 22 year record in unemployment. And so the Minister of Finance does not participate. The question asked by many from the Workers' Party, namely whether it is acceptable for a member of the government to go out actively and encourage municipalities to sabotage a decision on the gross domestic product, has not yet been answered. To put it at the head: Is it acceptable for some government council to go out and recommend that municipalities not follow up on the Storting decision on climate action because they do not believe in climate change? Is it acceptable for one of the councils to go out and encourage the municipalities not to hire more teachers because you do not believe that the density of teachers contributes to learning, although the Stortinget has decided – with the help of the Christian People's Party – that it should be a field of activity? Of course, it is possible for a party leader to have opinions about his or her politics and party, but it is part of a completely historical exception that a government council, which is even no. 2 in the government, calls for a decision not to be taken in the municipalities. Since Solvency Horne is the next speaker, there is reason to ask: Does Siv Jensen's call to the municipalities not to settle refugees her job more easily, or does it make her job more difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1051	I can assure the Storting that this throne debate has actually followed. I was here yesterday, and I've had it in my office the hours I've been there, and I've followed enthusiasm in this debate around it with housing and integration – a demanding, challenging situation that we all face. Sometimes, when you hear the debate, you wonder if a person lives in two different worlds. Some representatives have argued that it is arduous, that the councils look worn out. Yes, it is arduous to be a councillor, but God better how fun it is too, and so interesting, and as much as you are allowed to do! And so it's a demanding situation, and we work every day to do something about the refugee situation that we're in. Two years ago, this government took over. Then over 5,000 were received, an inheritance from the previous government. There was an increase in people who stayed from 2011 to 2013. Where, then, was the exposure from this hall and from the government? So we've done something every day. We have asked all municipalities – not just medium-sized and large, but all municipalities – to participate in the housing process. We have increased the integration grant, we have increased the housing grant to Husbanken, we have met with many rapporteurs and with municipalities – eight dialogue meetings – to hear what municipalities need. So it's voluntary residence in this country. I have not heard any party now, except SV, that goes for another model. If we are to succeed in the settlement and integration, then we must also listen to the municipalities: what do they need, and what capacity do they have out there? On the day that the TV lights are switched off and this no longer has the news interest, the local authorities have to do the work. Integration work, getting them into work, getting them into education and becoming a part of society, is not something that municipalities can do alone. They have to do this with Nav, together with business, with volunteering and with government. I can assure the Storting that this is a work that the entire government takes very seriously. It also shows the additional proposition we promoted for 2015, and it also shows the work we have to do in 2016. But as Minister of Integration, I also want the Stortinget to take on board the fact that this work is being done in the municipalities. We need the municipalities on the team, and the municipalities need to get what they need. So it's voluntary settlement, and it's about the capacity of the individual municipality. The work we are now facing is going to be demanding, and it's going to be challenging for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1068	It was nice to find out that the Swedish Council of Solvency Horne disagreed with the party leader, Siv Jensen. What we're waiting for then is what Minister of Finance Siv Jensen thinks about party leader Siv Jensen, and I understand from the Prime Minister that we still have to wait for, and then we'll have to take the next opportunity to bring it up again. That's what the government itself takes. Of course, it would have been possible for the Minister of Finance to answer that question yesterday or today. When I spoke again, it was because the Prime Minister was in both the SV's Dublin proposal and the debate on broadcasts. It might be interesting to know what the Prime Minister now thinks about Dublin returns, because Germany has thus stopped returning Syrian refugees and stopped returning to countries like Italy. We believe it would be a solidarity act right now to those countries that bear the greatest burdens, and to refugees who do not receive good enough treatment in some of those countries. Before the Storting should vote on that proposal, it might be interesting to know whether the Prime Minister still categorically rejects it, or whether this is something the government will consider. So no one has said – and that's not what I said yesterday – that no one should be sent out of Norway. We are strong followers of the fact that those who have no reason to stay in Norway are sent out. But what I was talking about yesterday was the message of concern that came from the trustees of the Police Foreign Unit, that they are using so much force on the figures they have received for broadcasts from the government, that it goes beyond the possibility of prioritising the criminals, who are the ones we all want out, and of identifying and registering in connection with the high number of arrivals of asylum seekers. State Secretary Jøran Kallmyr said on News Day 18 a short time ago that the government and the department would assess these figures, and then I am a little surprised that the Prime Minister does not repeat what the State Secretary from the Progress Party said, but instead almost categorically rejects the fact that something is going to happen with these priorities. So that's what we wanted yesterday. Finally, a small explanation of vote: the SV Group will vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal relating to the refugee situation, which we think is good. We will also vote in favour of the two proposals from the Left. The left and SV have worked together for a lobby register for many years, and it is natural for us to vote for the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1082	The Prime Minister said that in order to allow more people to do so, it might be necessary to change the speaking time of the state councils. That's for the presidency to assess. Let me start by saying that it was a good throne speech, with important emphasis on different themes. I thought the weight was good, but it's interesting that when one of the major issues is the refugee disaster, we haven't heard the Minister of Justice. We now heard the Minister for Integration all the time, in a three-minute time, where she almost saw herself forced to respond on behalf of her party. And so we cannot hear the Minister of Finance – after the party has asked to hear her after the party! Others have sat longer in the Storting than I have done, but when it's the opposition's debate and the opposition asks to talk to a councillor who's in the house, and we don't get it – well, what conclusion are you going to draw from it? Yes, Solveig Horne, it's interesting to be the Council of State, I agree with that, and the enthusiasm you show for integration, I think is affordable, and it also deserves the Council of State praise. But there must be reason to ask questions about what she does and encourages – the settlement is to take place in the municipalities – that is, the party leader, who says to the municipalities: Don't live! And by not settling, you can prevent the implementation of the Syria agreement. It stands as a matter before the debate, during the debate and after the debate, and it is, in my opinion, an even greater matter when it comes to the debate, that, after these hours, one has not been able to give an answer. To Gunnar Gundersen, who doesn't – well, there he is, in the background: the taxes are going down, it gives increased investment. That's the clock faith right there, and you can ask the question, how far down? Can we expect that the wealth tax, which is such a big problem, will be abolished in tomorrow's budget? Is that about right where it is now? Our point has been – and this confirms the Menon report – that if you choose to do something about taxes to promote investment, you have to start elsewhere. The taxes on wealth are going down a great deal. The point is the alternative use of money. So last year's budget suggested, as we remember, that 50 pst. the cuts were to be given below the 5 pst. richest – 60 pst. Of them, pensioners – and it can probably get along, but if there are more investments, will there be more jobs? So we don't think so. And I have to remind you, because he stresses the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises: yes, they are important. So they became 350,000 more jobs during our reign – two out of three in the private sector – and when you took over power, Norway was the sixth best country to invest in, according to the World Bank. There's reason to remember this, because the more you face challenges in this government, the more you get busy in those years. And we'd be happy to answer for them anytime and anywhere, but you're responsible for this guard, and it's about looking forward to 2020, and you're going to face criticism from us for wrong choices. Tomorrow there will be a draft tax reform, and I repeat: the Workers' Party is open to a broad agreement for a good tax system that promotes good investment, is redistributive and contributes to the financing of the fragmented welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1097	The President reminds the representative Gahr Støre that the speech should be addressed to the President, and not to individuals with ‘you’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1100	This is the day before the big day when the budget comes, and I also think, naturally, the debate has been influenced by it. Norway is facing major challenges. It also shows this debate. I think the last post to Jonas Gahr Støre so far is promising in this way, for if a rattles away much of the rhetoric, there are two major challenges this throne debate has been about. One is how we can rust Norway best for the future – how we can convert, how we can create new activity and a green shift, and help to keep the oil industry important, but that we also have more legs to stand on. It's gone again. And then there's been a discussion, of course, about who discovered the need for conversion first, and someone thinks that conversion happens anyway. We'll get a government budget tomorrow that's going to address these questions in a very good way, of course, I think. That will be a good opportunity for debate. The second main theme that has gone on again is the very serious and tragic situation we have, with the refugee crisis, with civil war in Syria, with a world that has been in total change, really, in the last two years, where one has experienced tragedies that one did not think was possible in such proximity to Europe as one now sees, where millions of people are fleeing, and where Norway, as a humanitarian power, is doing its best to contribute — both in the neighbourhoods and by showing generosity and concern for those who come here to the country. The Prime Minister announced in his speech today that there will be an additional proposition. The budget could not take account of the explosion we have seen in the last few weeks, by the fact that almost 5,000 asylum seekers have now arrived in September, most of them from Syria. It will give the Storting ample opportunity to discuss, and I look forward to that debate beyond the fall and hope that it will be shaped by the cohesion and the spirit of virtue that this country actually deserves. The proposals presented, the first three, deal precisely with the refugee situation, with immigration. We want to take this debate when we get this supplementary proposition, so we want to vote against it today. Proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the left are repeaters who have previously not voted for and have not intended to vote for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1113	Solved Horne talked about two different worlds, that was the entrance to the post. Obviously, here you live in two different worlds – we in Stortinget and those in the government. But there must be two different worlds in the government, for many of us sat and followed closely what Siv Jensen said when she opened the election campaign of the Progress Party, such as the Minister of Finance and the Council of State: «The more municipalities that say no, the greater the possibility of the agreement not being implemented». It was Siv Jensen – party leader Siv Jensen – his world. Then comes the Progress Party Council Solvency Horne in its world: we have asked all municipalities, large and small, to settle. We've been standing day and night. We have increased the integration grant. We're doing everything we can to make the most of our living around all the municipalities in the country. I wonder if it is a new parliamentary or party practice that what the party leader says has no weight. If the party leader says that, it means nothing. The fact that the Minister of Finance says that doesn't mean anything. It's my world as a Minister of Integration who matters, and we're running on and giving the bluff in what the party really means. The Prime Minister should also get the government number two to say that, of course, what I said at the beginning of the election campaign was wrong to say. In fact, there are a lot of refugees here now who need a place to live, and we have to use all the power, regardless of the party color, to get it done, because people are here now, whether we like it or not, and more will be. And we have to do the job. If there are two different worlds, then in the government there are two different worlds – there is one party that still has some energy left, and one that is soon completely empty of energy. Right now I'm a little excited. It's interesting to hear Gunnar Gundersen, a nutritionist in the Right, talk about the macro-economic. But he forgets one thing that really pleased me with the languages of the throne, and that was the emphasis that we had our own currency. It went on again both in what the King read, and in what Torbjørn Røe Isaksen read, that it was a main explanation that we managed to make the transition that we can now, that having our own currency has increased our competitiveness. Not least, it has benefited from the type of industries in which it operates in parts of the inland, forest sector. One main reason why things are going a lot better in places where things went a little bit worse before is that we've got a lower price. The Prime Minister, who is so opposed to referenda, should be happy that people said no in 1994, and be happy that she did not get through to her dream of introducing the euro into Norway, because now it is a main instrument that we actually have our own currency, that we have our own monetary policy, and that we can therefore actively use it when we are going to convert Norway into an even better country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1122	I can assure the representative Schlagsvold Vedum that I am not empty of energy, but I think it is actually the first time in my life that I have been mentioned as an accountant. [[Laughter]] First of all, the government is responding to the Storting in this room, and in terms of the decision of the Storting, the government has said that it will be followed up. Let's do it. Every government follows up the decision of the Storting. That is the visit I have planned to take to that matter. So to reforms: yeah, I formally bubble over by enthusiasm for the project we're in, because now we're finally going to be able to make some changes. We're going to have a near-police reform in place. The centre party is, of course, against. We're going to have a railway reform in place. The centre party is, of course, against. We have been given free treatment options in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The centre party is, of course, against. We have notified a national health and hospital plan. The centre party has announced that they are skeptical. We have put in place a road company that we are doing. Of course, the center party is skeptical. Yes, in the field by field after field, the government proposes a number of new measures. We come up with a number of simplifications and red tape, we've made sure that there's a new place in agriculture, that it'll actually pay to produce food. Of course, the centre party is skeptical and opposed. I have a suspicion that it is not the people of the Progress Party who are tired, but the people of the Centre who are tired, because you say no to everything. I have not heard Battle Violence Vedum say that he and the Center will vote for one of these reforms. It's no, no, no, and no. But of course, it's very often the easiest thing to do when you don't want to change. I think it is very nice that Battle violence Vedum has been given some rest after his reign. While he looked awfully tired out in recent years, and the government was very tired and did not come up with any reforms, this government actually wants to make changes, come up with measures so we can get a step further. We need to change, we need to take action to meet the future, but then we can't dig our head down into the sand and hope that everything should be like it always has been when you take your head up again. With regard to the proposals on the table, the Progress Party will vote against all. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1137	Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1140	This hall can't be done with what the Progress Party says about immigration. We just have to live with the fact that the representative Tybring-Gjedde believes that Islamisation is already underway. We must live with the fact that the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party at the national meeting of the Progress Party chooses a clothing with sea motifs and 'Good journey' while the dead children are washed ashore on the shores of the Mediterranean. This is the case of the Progress Party. But a state council must follow Storting's decision and Storting's policy. When a government council doesn't, it's the prime minister's responsibility to make sure you do it. The Prime Minister addressed formalism when she said that Siv Jensen could not answer here today. That's wrong. Paragraph 57 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure states that government members participate in major debates in the same way as depositors. She can take a three-minute post at any time, she can take another three minutes, and she can take a short note. It is only in the agreed blocs of five minutes for the parties that the Council of State has measured time. She could say yes or no in seven minutes on this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1147	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice before and also gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1150	The party of progress and the centre were almost evenly larger in the autumn's choice. Unlike the Progress Party, we want emergency preparedness near where people live. It was not without reason that the Progress Party in More and Romesdal went on the election bell of the times. People don't want that centralization of hospitals, police, hospitals and schools. If the Progress Party is now thinking of continuing this centralization reform that we are now in, where everything is going to get bigger, where it's going to be removed from people, I think soon we can't say we're equal, because people aren't too centralization. Today I saw to my great joy that Mr. Bård Hoksrud, the great representative of Telemark, has turned around and believes that it is very wise to do as the Central Party has said, that we should have police preparedness near where people live. If the Progress Party does not turn around soon, there will be more, and everyone is welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1159	One thing I agree with Mr Vedum's representative is that the preparedness must be there for people to live. But that doesn't necessarily mean that because you have a house or a building there, the readiness is where people live. That's what it's all about. The reform of the police calls for more policemen to be available and to be able to respond quickly. I think that's very important. So I actually don't think the Tryg Battle Force Vedum could have read the Varden very well. He's at least read parts of what it's all about, because it's like when you come from a state and represent a state and you don't get up in the fight, and you choose that it's the professional reasons to base the steps you're doing, then I actually think it's right as a politician to ask the question, do we do things wrong? Should we perhaps do things differently to succeed in getting things to our state? That is what Telemark wants. What are we going to do to ensure and ensure that in the future we get many of the important services that we want to have of the main functions on in our county? It's completely possible to do that, and that's exactly what we're doing right now. It's a hearing now on where the police officers are going to be located. That means that it is possible for both states and others to make representations on how to succeed in getting it to their state or to their region. And we're going to do that in a good way in Telemark. So Schlagsvold Vedum thought that we are empty of energy – I am definitely not empty of energy. I have a lot of energy and I'm looking forward to the next two years here. You're going to notice that there's still a lot of energy here. As for the forest sector, on which the Battle of Vedum was in, it is very happy in this government and very happy in the Minister of Agriculture and Food and in the Minister of Transport who has made sure that what was a trial arrangement for eight years with the Centre Party has actually become a permanent arrangement. The regulatory framework has been streamlined and simplified so that a new section for the carriage of 60 tonnes can be approved more quickly. So it shows a government that delivers and that makes it easier for business as well as for ordinary people – and I'm proud to be a part of it. And it is definitely such that, with the Progress Party Councils in these departments, you will actually be pleased with Trygve – excuse me, President, in the representative Battle Violence Vedum! But it's sadly so that Battle violence Vedum has one lead, and that's to be against everything that's new, all of the reforms, all that's new. I'm really glad we're going to have a rail reform, I'm really glad we're getting a new road company in place, and not least I'm really glad that we're getting reduced tolls through a toll reform. The centre party voted against all of it. Get a little more involved in making things more efficient and more rational!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1172	The President would also like to accept these kind of expressions of love, as they cannot be addressed to individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1176	I'm not sure if I accept the same statements, but what I want to say to the representative Nesvik is that we're not going to say no, no, no today. We will vote in favour of the own proposals of the Christian People's Party, and we will also vote in favour of the SV's proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I actually summed up the debate in my previous post, but when I heard the councillor, Solvency Horne, saying that we need the municipalities on the team, I wanted to say two things. It's OK for Solvency Horne – she's been able to bus more than the previous government actually did. But then there's also a paradox that the government's number two in August invited the municipalities to do the opposite. It's incomprehensible to me. But the more happy I am that the Prime Minister has today taken the lead in the refugee and asylum debate. She did that with her posts today, and it's unusually important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1183	I have received a lot of energy from listening to the Battle of Vedum, and there may be a need for clarification. The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, was concerned that there was a need to be prepared where people live. Yes, that is what this police reform is all about – using police capacity, police resources in the district, where people live, turning administrative services into more efficient police services, so that the security of the individual out there is better taken care of. With regard to the other reforms that have been referred to, it's just that we're going to get more money back. If there's one thing that's going to be challenging in the years that come, when we see what happens, it's getting enough money to solve the challenges that we're facing. Then we have to work smarter. Then we'll have to change. And we have to think differently. When the representative Schlagsvold Vedum also referred to my major auditors – or lacks such – it was like a call, as a question, because the government was challenged by what kind of action you want to take to meet the developments we see, especially from East-Agder and along the coast up to More and Romesdal, where we have an increasing unemployment rate. Then I went through the point after the point that the government wanted to implement. And tomorrow night. Ten come the government with its government budget. Then the representative Schlagsvold Vedum will also be able to see what lies behind different measures, and then we will see if Battle Violence Vedum is able to say yes to any of them, or whether he will say no to anything then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1194	The centre party can assure the representative Hoksrud that we have read Varden carefully. In fact, what is in Varden is that the representative of Hoksrud now has to fight against what he and his party have voted in favour of in Stortinget. They have voted in favour of centralisation of police districts, and the number goes down from 27 to 12. And when you're going to discuss where to put the 12, Hoksrud is going to start fighting against his government, which is proposing the Drammen. I fully agree with the representative Hoksrud that it is far too far from Drammen to Kristiansand, but it could have been solved easily by having a police district in each state, as the police analysis also suggested, and which was the Central Party's alternative during the debate. It's the whole project with first voting for something and then starting lobbying against what you voted for, which is part of the problem here for the Progress Party. Then the representative Nesvik has been concerned that the Central Party has said no to the reform. Yes, of course, we are saying no to this kind of centralizing reform that the police reform is. Everyone knows that the word 'near-police' is a great curiosity; there is nothing close to that reform at all. It's gonna be a car and phone police. The next blow and difficulty for the government parties is likely to come when the offices of 100 to 130 members of the government that exist today are to be closed down. Then the individual Progress Party representative will come running to fight for the maintenance of his Länsmannskontoret. We hope that we will have Hoksrud's support for the proposal that the Central Party has put forward today in the Stortinget, which is that it is the Stortinget who is to decide the location of police districts, as the Stortinget has always done before the majority in this Chamber suddenly made it a matter for bureaucrats in a directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1205	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1208	I wonder if the representative Arnstad should go back and look at what the decisions say. It is true that the division of police districts has been adopted, but it is POD who has been given responsibility for where the various police officers are to sit – not that the government has decided where the various police officers are to sit, as the representative Arnstad was just up here and said. There's a significant difference, and the significant difference is actually that it's about making the good arguments. I am committed to making the good arguments for Telemark because I am also the ombudsman of Telemark, just as I am sure that Werp, Wold and others are also concerned about their county – are ombudsmen for their county – and that they will get the police chief there. Then you have to find the best arguments to get it done, and as the Ombudsman for Telemark, I am busy working to get it there. But I agree that the technical arguments must also be based, and then you have to make the right arguments as to why they are best professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1215	I'll try to be brief and not extend the debate. Three times in the last 15 years, the Stortinge has adopted reforms by the police. Every time, the organisation of security and preparedness, by the police forces in Norway, has been responsible for corruption and government. It was only this time that the bulk of the population deliberately shift the responsibility from one to the next to the Police Directorate. There is no law of nature that says that the Police Directorate is to decide the location of the police master's office. It was the big crowd that was too cowardly to take the decisions sailed, when they were first to centralize the police, and then they chose to push it down to a directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1222	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1225	I want to make a brief comment about the new road company, to which the Central Party was quite rightly critical because we want more road and less road bureaucracy. Now one in Telemark sees a concrete result of this decision. One can read in Telemarksavisa on 3 October that the E18 through Telemark, the route Rugtvedt-Dørdal, is delayed because one needs to have an explanation of the framework and rules applicable to the new road company. The solution of the center party would be to start building that road, in line with the plans that existed. The Progress Party would have a new bureaucratic body, with the result that a stretch of which Mr. Bård Hoksrud has been involved is delayed. So that's the basis for saying that we have a reason to say no to the road company, and that's because we say yes to more road, faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1236	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1244	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to replace tendering rounds for asylum reception operations with long-term contracts. Such agreements shall, as far as possible, be concluded with public or non-profit actors which do not take dividends from reception operations.’;» The central party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1273	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the humanitarian clause of the Dublin Regulation and to deal with all asylum applications from Syrian refugees in Norway, irrespective of the country of first arrival. The majority also requests that refugees from countries other than Syria, who have come first to countries with high pressure, be treated in Norway. This has been done in the past for refugees with Greece as the first country of arrival and should now also be done for refugees who first came to Italy, Hungary and other press areas.’ The Left and Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1290	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a registration system for those seeking political direction in the departments or in the Prime Minister’s office on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the government in matters for consideration.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1307	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Size Requests the Presidentship of the Storting to prepare proposals for a registration scheme for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others to influence the Storting on matters pending its consideration.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1324	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case to improve the care of lone minor asylum seekers by transferring care responsibilities for single minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 to child protection.’ The Socialist Left and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1341	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 160th Great by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-06.ana.ud1650e1404	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
