ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former North-Trøndelag’s representative, Steiner Arvid Kvalø, is dead, 93 years old. Steiner Arvid Kvalø was a representative of the Stortinget for 12 years. He met permanently as a representative for more than four years between 1973 and 1977. Then he was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee. Steiner Arvid Kvalø was an honorary member of the Workers' Party. By his death, Vikna and Namdal have lost a marked personality. Steiner Arvid Kvalö's life can serve as a picture of the journey we as a nation have made through the wartime. In addition to being a staging representative, Steiner Arvid Kvalø was also a fisherman and a resistor. He was a trained skipper and the work as a fisherman in his own boat. He had a strong and burning commitment to the fisheries along the Namdal coast. He was a member of the Norwegian Råfisk team for 31 years. In 1941 he contributed to the beginning of a Milorg department on the Namdal coast, which received arms, food and clothing from the United Kingdom. As late as May 8th this year, Steiner Arvid Kvalø was honored for the resistance work he did during World War II. Steiner Arvid Kvalø joined the Workers' Party in 1939 as a seventeen-year-old. After the war he became a powerful voice for social democracy, both local and national. He engaged himself in the society he came from, and contributed to the design of post-war Norway. He spent several periods in Vikna City Council before he entered Stortinget. He also had several public duties, including: as a member of the Aktaksnemanda in Nord-Trøndelag, Fiskeremenda in Vikna, a member of the Government of the Ports of Rørvik, a member of the Department of the State of Fiskarbank in Bodø and a chairman of the Board of Older Persons in Vikna. One characteristic of Steiner Arvid Kvalø was that he was clear, both personally and in politics. When he had made up an opinion, he was not to be misunderstood. The Labour Party has lost its honorary member, a clear and generous man. We light peace over Steiner Arvid Qualus memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e78	From the Workers' Group there is an application for sick leave from the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 13 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods Audun Otterstad shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e101	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e104	On behalf of the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I would like to make a proposal relating to the temporary armament of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e109	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The agenda of the day has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e.: 24 hours. However, the President will propose that matters on today's agenda be dealt with now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e127	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e141	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e155	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e167	So far this year, more than 700,000 people have crossed Europe’s borders – many of them fleeing from war, others looking for a better life. The situation we're facing is demanding. In this presentation, I will describe our efforts nationally, internationally and in cooperation in the EU. I want to start by describing the international picture. To understand the current situation in Norway, we need to understand the underlying causes of the flow of refugees and migration into Europe. This will be a central theme at the Valletta Summit next month, to which I am going to attend. In the next part of the presentation, I will describe the EU's actions and how Norway deals with the work that is being done at EU level. In the last part of the presentation, I will describe the management of the asylum influx here in Norway. Why is the world now experiencing major migration challenges? A number of unresolved conflicts and humanitarian crises characterise the international agenda: Syria and Iraq, the Horn of Africa and Mali – to name a few examples. This year, the consequences of these conflicts have reached Europe to a greater extent than before. We must remember that this is about human creatures, for example. on Syrian small children’s families willing to risk life in small rubber boats across the Mediterranean to escape bombing in Aleppo. Some of them end their journey at a transit reception in Norway and seek security here. One of the explanations of the migration picture is that many now no longer see a future in their own country or neighbourhoods. People on the run need the world community to set up. We're going to do the same thing. In a world where more and more people are getting better, there are still many countries in a geographical belt from Afghanistan to West Africa that are characterized by stagnation and a weakening of state control. The refugee and migration crisis has led to misguided policies in a number of countries. In many contexts, the international community has failed to act or its efforts have failed. War and conflict arise because ethnic, religious, and other tensions are cynically exploited rather than subdued. The crises are also due to oppression or poverty due to weak political institutions, the absence of freedom and human rights and the lack of economic opportunities for young people. These challenges cannot be solved in the short term. They require long-term political, economic and social changes in many societies. Processes must be started from the inside, even if they can be supported from the outside. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, over 60 million people in the world are fleeing. And refugee and migration flows can continue to increase. As I pointed out in my April presentation, it is necessary to distinguish between refugees and other migrants. The Syrians, who now dominate their arrival in Europe, have a constant need for protection. Many other migrants, e.g. from the Balkans, living in safe societies, but still looking for a better future. We don't have to be naive either. Some will take advantage of the situation and try to find a place in Europe, even if they do not have a need for protection. That's also part of the picture we see. It is up to the world community to provide protection in line with the Refugee Convention and the International Human Rights Convention. At the same time, it is important, not least for those who need protection, to return quickly those who do not have such a need. The armed conflict in Syria is within its fifth year, and it shows no signs of slowing down. It's totally unacceptable. It is essential to put an end to warfare and to make a run for a broad and swift political solution. The main responsibility for ending violence lies with President Assad. International responsibility rests primarily on the UN Security Council, in cooperation with a number of regional actors as well as the warring parties. Norway supports the work of the United Nations. Like our allies, we in Norway have expressed serious concern about the Russian air strikes in Syria. It is essential that Russia clarify what is the real purpose of the actions also in order to avoid unintended conflicts with the fighting of the coalition members against ISIL. In the absence of a political solution, violence is increasing in Syria, and the humanitarian crisis continues to increase. Five years ago, Syria was an intermediate country in the process of reaching the United Nations’ Millennium Goals. Today, large parts of the country are in ruins. More than half of the country's population is displaced from their homes – 7.6 million are fleeing in their own country, and 4.1 million have crossed the borders of neighbouring countries. Despite this desperate situation, it's only 43 pst. of the United Nations appeals for humanitarian aid for Syria and neighbouring countries fulfilled. This includes, inter alia: at: The World Food Programme has stopped feeding over 360 000 refugees in Jordan and Lebanon due to a lack of funding. More than 700,000 refugee children in Syria’s neighbouring country are out of school, and the schools receiving Syrian schoolchildren are overcrowded, underfunded and understaffed. The inability of the world community to ensure that basic needs, education and health care can be cared for in the neighbouring countries of Syria is a contributing factor in many refugees from there. When nearly 60 pst. the need is unmet, the international community must take a firm stand. In order to mobilise the necessary resources, Norway has taken the initiative of a donor country conference for Syria, which will be held early in 2016. We are in dialogue with Germany, the United Kingdom, Kuwait and the United Nations on the details. For the same reason, we have also increased our own humanitarian efforts towards Syria and neighbouring countries. Norway is the sixth largest donor country in the region and the second largest in relation to the population. In our preliminary sale to the 2016 state budget, we propose that the total amount of humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries will be at least 1.5 billion. kr next year. We also propose to increase the overall humanitarian budget by more than 30 pst – to 4.8 billion. kr. This is the highest humanitarian budget ever, and it will put us in a better position to help in Syria and neighbouring countries and to respond to crises and humanitarian needs elsewhere in the world. In addition to Syria, there are a number of other countries that are dominated by long-term conflicts. Many are vulnerable states threatened by violent extremism. We find several of the world's poorest countries among these. As mentioned in my presentation in April, particularly parts of North Africa and the Sahel area are unstable. These areas are used by networks of smugglers, which make large amounts of money to transport people, drugs and weapons. These networks flourish when countries like Mali and Libya are affected by long-standing conflicts. Organized criminals therefore have the same interest as terrorist groups in undermining Mali's peace process and exploiting the power vacuum in Libya. So far Libya has been primarily a transit country for migration. If the conflict continues, the risk of Libya becoming a country of origin for refugees and migrants is increased. We are facing major tasks of stabilising vulnerable countries in the future. Today’s crises need to be met with a broad range of both immediate and long-term instruments. In the short term, humanitarian assistance and development assistance are needed. In the long term, however, there is a need for a good international framework for trade and investment, support for good governance, promotion of human rights and efforts for peace and reconciliation. These measures must go hand in hand. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees plays a crucial role in assisting people on the run. Norway has increased support for the High Commissioner in the current year, and we have strengthened cooperation with the organisation in the field of education. If the world community is unable to provide education for all children who are now on the run, we will deprive them of opportunities for a good life when the war ends. The government is also turning a major part of our development aid towards fragile and vulnerable states, and we are continuing Norwegian traditions in peace and reconciliation. I have recently discussed development issues at the UN High Level Meeting with both the Head of the Commission of the African Union and with the Prime Minister of Lebanon. I have also met the Prime Minister of Turkey about the situation there. It is important to involve Turkey in the international discussions on the migration crisis, and I welcome the new cooperation we are now seeing between the EU and Turkey on these issues. In November, European and African countries will meet at a summit on migration in Malta's capital, Valletta, where I will attend. The Valletta meeting has an ambitious agenda. The objective is to establish long-term, committed cooperation on the many challenges of the migration pressure we are now looking at against Europe from south of the Mediterranean. The Valletta Summit shall address the root causes of migration. African countries are concerned with increasing opportunities for regular migration and mobility. They want more legal roads to Europe for their citizens. European countries, for their part, will demand increased willingness to return migrants who do not have protection needs and who are in Europe without legal residence. There are also significant joint interests between African and European countries. This applies not least to combating criminal networks benefiting from traffic, strengthening protection and humanitarian assistance for en route refugees and improving border control capacity in central transit and origin countries. The Valletta Summit must help to strengthen the long-term development measures, urgent measures to limit illegal and irregular migration and measures to save lives and alleviate distress in the acute situation facing us. In the light of the many and long-standing refugee crises we are seeing, Norway must in future be prepared to provide more of our assistance for measures that can stabilise countries and prevent migration. We need to think in the long term, and the migration perspective needs to be even more integrated into our foreign policy. The Valletta Summit offers a unique opportunity to establish committed and trusting cooperation on long-term challenges that we must jointly solve. The historically high number of asylum seekers who have come to Europe in the last six months puts Europe's capacity for the dignity and humane treatment of asylum seekers to the test. The most recent estimates show 720 000 registered asylum seekers as of 1 September. The complete figures for August and September remain uncertain. But we know that the influx of asylum is different in Europe: About half of the asylum applications so far this year, based on the figures we now have – and that is what I said, uncertainly – have been made in Germany and Hungary. Germany’s official forecasts for the whole of 2015 are 800,000 asylum seekers, but it is clear that with the latest inflows, these forecasts can also increase. Sweden received 24 000 asylum seekers only in September, and the Swedish Migration Agency is now preparing for a scenario where between 150 000 and 180 000 people can apply for asylum in Sweden in 2015. Finland received 11 000 asylum seekers in September. This is a high figure in itself, but this also includes the fact that Finland has had very low asylum flows in the past. Poland, a major European country, received a comparison of 1,600 asylum seekers in September. Many countries now feel that it is difficult to deal with the influx of asylum. Norway is taking a large share, but we see that some countries have considerably greater challenges than us, while other countries are almost unaffected by the migration challenges. Dimensions are too large for countries to deal with this alone. For the past few weeks, I have discussed this with others. the German Chancellor and the Nordic Prime Ministers. It is natural to maintain good contact and exchange experiences with neighbouring countries. We agree that the challenges must be met through joint European action. Norway will, inter alia: as a member of the Dublin and Schengen cooperation, actively contribute to the search for good European solutions. The EU Commission presented a package of measures in September. The most important instruments that the EU and its Member States are now implementing and discussing are: the relocation of an additional 120 000 refugees from Italy and Greece, in addition to the 40 000 adopted before the summer of restoring the external borders of Schengen, and assistance for the registration of asylum seekers through so-called hot spots, i.e. Reinforced Arrival and Registration Centres – in Greece and Italy a permanent relocalisation mechanism a common European list of safe countries of origin more effective return policy increased focus on the foreign policy solutions that need to be put in place and increased support for refugees in the region The action package is well received by the European Parliament and the majority of the countries. Overall, this is an important starting point for a better and coordinated response to the migration picture in Europe. On the Norwegian side, we recognise the need for strong and coordinated action at EU level to meet the migration challenges. In order to strengthen the control of those crossing the external borders and to ensure a fair and orderly distribution of asylum seekers, the EU shall relocate a total of 160 000 asylum seekers. This shall take place over a period of two years. The relocation mechanism is limited to asylum seekers with nationalities with an average grant rate of 75 pst. or more. In Italy, work is already under way, and the first relocalisation took place last week, when 19 Eritreans were transported to Sweden. The government’s intention is that Norway should also participate in this mechanism, and this is communicated to the EU. We will come back to the concrete conditions around Norwegian participation in the additional number of the State budget for 2016. The EU will also establish hot spots in Greece and Italy. These should include, inter alia: assist with health checks, registration, information to migrants and effective return work. This is a very important measure. When we participate in relocalisation, there will be a clear expectation that Europe will now be able to control uncontrolled migration without external borders and without registration. In addition to the short-term measure to relocate 160 000 asylum seekers, proposals have also been made for permanent mechanisms for the allocation of refugees between European countries. This discussion has not been concluded in the EU. The Government has been and is committed to returning as soon as possible persons who have been refused their asylum application. We therefore see it as positive that the EU is now in favour of stronger work on returns. Return is undoubtedly a necessary instrument to prevent irregular migration into Europe and to protect the institution of asylum. Many European countries, including Norway, face challenges of returning people to countries of origin who do not comply with the obligation to take their own citizens back. The government will continue to promote return agreements with such countries. Norway also supports the EU's work on a strategy to develop secure reception capacity in third countries to which asylum seekers can be returned within the legal framework set by the Refugee Convention and the International Human Rights Convention. The EU initiative on a common list of safe countries of origin is good. This can help to strengthen the return work and facilitate the migration pressure somewhat. Norway already has a 48-hour rapid procedure that can be used for asylum seekers from a number of countries. The procedure implies that UDI takes decisions within 48 hours of the registration of an application. The countries included in the rapid UDI procedure are considered safe countries of origin. The nationalities to be covered by the rapid procedure are assessed on an ongoing basis, based on available country information. To sum up, there is still a great deal of work to be done on EU initiatives. But with the influx we are now seeing, it is important for Norway to ensure that the control of the external borders of Schengen is restored, that we protect the institution of asylum for those who need it, and that we get good pan-European solutions. Without such mechanisms, we will experience countries trying to push the problems between themselves. No one is going to be served, at least of all those seeking asylum. Norway will also continue its efforts to save lives at sea. We continue the support to Triton under the auspices of the Frontex Border Control Agency and assess the continuation of the support to Poseidon together with the Rescue Company. These operations aim both to save lives and to secure the outer boundaries. In the first instance, the ‘Siem Pilot’ will continue until the end of February. If Frontex needs a further three months, the contribution will be extended until May, which is the duration of the contract with the company. I will once again give tribute to the Norwegian team involved in the triton and Poseidon maritime operations. The same applies to Norwegian shipowners and crews in the Mediterranean, who continue to do important rescue work. I would also like to commend the many Norwegian humanitarian workers who contribute both to the Mediterranean and elsewhere in Europe in the neighbourhoods. As a result of the migration flow from North Africa, a substantial maritime presence and significant monitoring capacity have been established in the central parts of the Mediterranean Sea. These are important contributions that need to be continued. I am pleased that the UN Security Council last Friday adopted a resolution authorising the inspection of ships on the open sea off the coast of Libya if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the ships are being used for human smuggling or trafficking. Vessels may be seized if they are confirmed to be used for such purposes. The UN Member State may also assist Libya in border control and combating trafficking in human beings, if Libya so requests. Norway also contributes in other ways to support countries in Europe experiencing a high level of migratory pressure. In Greece, we contribute significant EEA funds to strengthen asylum treatment and other migration measures. We set up a reception centre on the island of Lésvos and finance the daily operation of the centre for one year to come. Greek authorities are working to open this centre. We are involved in activities in countries such as Italy, Cyprus and Greece which are intended to help countries to provide a decent offer to migrants and asylum seekers. We have expanded our support for Serbia's and Macedonia's work on refugees. Through the Norwegian Emergency Response Team NoRCAP, the government supports the deployment of humanitarian experts for UNHCR work in transit countries. 24 experts have been sent so far to assist in the management of the refugee situation in Greece and in other countries south of Europe. We have also made it clear from the Norwegian side that we are willing to contribute additional EEA funds to support migration and integration actions in several cooperating countries in the coming years. The sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers to Europe has also led to a large increase in Norway. In the first half of this year, arrivals in Norway were lower than predicted. In August, over 2,300 asylum seekers arrived in Norway, which is the highest number of arrivals for a single month in several decades. In September, this number was more than doubled, to 4,900. There is a particularly strong increase in applicants from Syria and single minors from Afghanistan. Another development is the increasing number of asylum seekers arriving over Storskog in eastern Finland. Nearly 1 100 asylum seekers have come over Storskog this year – about 850 of them in the last month. By comparison, in 2014 it was approx. 20 asylum seekers who came this way. Many of those who come to Norway will be accommodated. Most applicants for asylum in Norway this year report being from Eritrea, Syria and Afghanistan. Norway has been consistent in returning rejected asylum seekers, which means that fewer asylum seekers from low-admission countries come here. I'm impressed by the commitment we've seen at home to help the many who have come. Either the effort is to stand still as refugee guides, knit warm socks or distribute food on the Tøjen is important, and it shows the hearts of the North. We're going to need a lot of volunteer work in the future as well. The main responsibility will always lie with the authorities, but there is plenty of room for assistance from voluntary Norway in the years to come. I would also like to commend the great effort that has been made by employees of the Foreign Affairs Department of the police, the UDI and the other parts of the reception apparatus for the past few weeks. They've gone far, improvised and done their very best. We're going to help. However, when the needs for different measures increase so much and so quickly, a scaling up of supply will not occur without squeezing. We should be open to the fact that the increase has created a number of challenges related to registration, accommodation and processing. In the future, the handling will also become demanding. It is important to ensure good reception and arrival records. PU's premises in Oslo have not been dimensioned for the high level of arrivals and have not been arranged for longer stays. It has therefore been necessary to make an adapted registration. This means that persons who are not yet registered are sent out into the reception system, which poses a significant challenge. UDI has established emergency facilities throughout Oslo for asylum seekers to have a place to sleep while waiting to be registered with PU. Large arrivals do not only require changes in physical reception conditions. It also requires people with the right skills and, in many cases, considerable training. As an example, I would like to mention that there are now some 160 employees working with registration in PU. A total of 78 new posts have recently been put in place to strengthen the registration process. In connection with the arrivals to North Norway, PU and UDI have established their own reception apparatus in Kirkenes. A lot has been done in a short time. At the same time, it is necessary to improve the recording of arrival and to organise the arrival phase better for asylum seekers and for the foreign administration in the future. Therefore, an arrival centre is now established. The centre will be located in the City Council and will be operational from the end of this week. This is a completely new solution that will take over as the first point of arrival for up to 1 000 asylum seekers. The Centre shall offer overnight accommodation to newly arrived asylum seekers for a few days, while the PU shall make the first registration of them. A health service is also planned to provide both emergency health care and necessary health studies. Registration work is important, not only in order to safeguard the rights of applicants, but also in order to ensure control of who comes. The PST follows the situation closely and will potentially also need increased resources. One main challenge now is that many migrants do not register in the first country of arrival but continue through Europe to the desired country of destination. As a result, some countries have introduced temporary border controls in line with the Schengen acquis. It is important for Schengen cooperation that the external border control function and asylum seekers are registered in the country of arrival. In Norway, no internal border controls have been introduced, but the Directorate of Police has been given the task of intensifying personal checks in border areas in order to have a good overview and knowledge of who is entering our country. It is important for national security. The PST has provisionally stated in its threat assessment related to the influx of asylum seekers that asylum seekers related to extreme Islamism do not appear to be a key concern in the short term. It is considered unlikely that the Norwegian Asylum Institute will be used by groups such as ISIL and Al Qaida by bringing asylum seekers with a pre-determined intention of violence to Norway. The increased influx of asylum is primarily considered to have a negative impact on the threat picture related to the external right environment in Norway. Resistance to immigration is an important mobilising factor for this environment. This is important to be prepared and keep an eye on the future. In the longer term, it is possible that some asylum seekers will pose a terrorist threat in Norway. Asylum seekers are a vulnerable group for radicalisation, but there will be great variations here. Another challenge we need to be aware of is the scope of human smuggling. Police are working to detect human smuggling upon arrival in Norway. Current cases are followed up and investigated as serious crime. Police officers on board the ships ‘Siem Pilot’ and ‘Peter Henry von Koss’ in the Mediterranean Sea also focus on detecting possible cases of human smuggling. Norway has actively expressed its support for the EU’s response to trafficking in human beings, and we are participating in the multi-national police cooperation in this area. The capacity of asylum recipients is under severe pressure. In particular, this is the case for transit reception in the eastern part of the country, where applicants live in the first phase. To meet the challenge, a large number of new reception points, including temporary accommodation, are now being set up. In some places, reception is now established at very short notice, both in places where it has previously been received and in municipalities that have not received before. It is demanding for both the new receptions and municipalities to handle this. Many municipalities have shown the will and ability to contribute to this exceptional situation. We appreciate that. Good cooperation between the State and the municipalities is essential to address the challenges of the reception system in a good way. We have seen in other countries that it has become necessary to change the standard of reception in order to deal with the situation. Our neighbouring country Sweden opened last week to the establishment of tent camps to provide a roof over the head of all asylum seekers who are now arriving. We will also consider simpler solutions. We also see that a greater proportion of aid resources in other countries are now being used for refugee measures in their own country. This is also happening in Norway. This assistance is in line with the OECD Development Committee guidelines and has been an established practice in Norway since the early 1990s. The share of single minors has increased dramatically this year. They come mainly from Afghanistan and Eritrea, and there is a tendency that more of these are somewhat younger than before. More than half of them, according to UDI, have informed adults that they have organized their journey. It is very worrying that minors are sent to Norway alone with human traffickers. These children need care, and they should. The UDI has tripled the transit capacity of lone minor asylum seekers and a number of asylum recipients have been established for them between 15 and 18 years of age. The establishment of reception for single minors is demanding because the need for organisation and service provision for this group is great. We have also had an increased need for places in care centres for single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. Buffetate has therefore entered into contracts with private suppliers to set up several care centres for this group. They have slightly expanded the capacity of existing state receptions. So far this year it has arrived approx. 460 single minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age for care centres. In comparison, 188 lone minors under the age of 15 came in total last year. Too many single minors – approx. 500 at the end of September – now waiting to come to a municipality and find footholds in our society. This group is at the top of the priority list of those to be settled. If there's one thing I want, it's that the spirit of virtue in the population is also going to lead to more people volunteering for child protection. If we can get more minor asylum seekers in foster homes and fewer in institutions, it will be better for integration and give children a better and safer start to their new lives. Here people really have an opportunity to make an important difference. The forecasts for the number of asylum seekers to Norway in 2015 were estimated to increase from 11 000 to 16 000 in the context of the additionalproposal to the State budget for 2015. The UDI now estimates that there may be 23 000 asylum seekers this year and 33 000 in 2016. On the basis of the new forecasts, the government will return to Stortinget in the context of the 2015 re-saltation and, in a short time, will propose additional numbers to the 2016 government budget. The high levels of asylum arrivals involve high costs. The size should now address the additional proposal for 2015 as a result of the increase in the number of asylum seekers. I would already like to inform you that several figures have to be adjusted during the new aging later this fall. In particular, we will see a significant adjustment in the cost of presenting the additional number for 2016 that comes later in the harvest. On average, each refugee is about 1 million. in government expenditure for the first five years. For single minors, expenditure is several times higher. Without cost-reducing measures, the latest forecasts indicate that we will receive additional costs of several billion kroner in 2016. Forecasts of arrivals are uncertain, but if 40,000-50,000 stay, the costs over the next five years could be between 40 billion. kr and 50 brd. kr. With a large proportion of single minors, the figure will be considerably higher. In addition, long-term socio-economic costs are added. These will depend in particular on the participation of those who come. It is important to be practical and solution-oriented in this process. We have to get the cost down. The asylum seekers must receive a good and fair but sober offer. Therefore, we need to critically review the arrangements we have today, in order to make an offer in a more reasonable way if possible. Norway must have adequate and dignified arrangements for asylum seekers. At the same time, we should not have schemes that are so good that more than what is natural, chooses Norway as a country of reception. The arrangements and benefits of asylum seekers must be in line with other countries that are natural for us to compare with. When, in April of this year, I gave a statement to the Stortinget about the influx of refugees into Europe, the municipalities of Norway had decided to settle 8 100 refugees. The government has given this work a high priority. Dialogue conferences were held with rapporteurs and advisers from about 100 municipalities to hear their views and to inform them that the government has improved the framework conditions for the settlement and integration work in the municipalities. In addition, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity has a close follow-up to the municipalities. This has produced results. We are now in over 11,400 decisions on housing in municipalities in 2015. It is therefore expected that this year we will have a record high settlement, which I would like to praise for the municipalities in Norway. At the same time, we are still in deficit, and the queues in reception are likely to still be around 4,500 people who need a municipality to live in, at the end of the year. However, as UDI is dealt with by the large number of asylum applications now being made, this figure will grow. We also need to settle a large number of transfer refugees in the future. During the summer, all municipalities in the country received a request from the Directorate for Integration and Diversity to make a total of 14,000 refugees in 2016. Municipalities have received a deadline for reply by the end of November 2015. The IMDi will also send out a new request in October, based on new forecasts. On the part of the government, we encourage the municipalities to continue to contribute actively to the settlement due in the future. Let me be quite clear on this: the housing work is going to be very demanding in the future. With the new forecasts, we are facing a whole new situation. We need to discuss and consider new measures. Integration is becoming very central to dealing with the situation we are facing. The goal must be that those who stay here can get to work quickly. They must then be given the opportunity to learn Norwegian quickly and to assess their competence. There are people who have had to leave everything they had loved, and many carry the loss of their closest and other heavy experiences with them. Then it is particularly important that we enable them to maintain the self-respect that lies in being able to support themselves and theirs. Introduction programme and Norwegian training will be important in the future. We have made some concrete proposals for increased efforts in the government budget for next year. We're proposing 20 million. to various measures to enable newly arrived refugees to use their skills to get out of the labour market more quickly. We propose to strengthen the integration grant with an additional grant of 50 million in total. kr to municipalities that reside more in 2016. We have also increased the grants to the House Bank. At the same time, the new forecasts make us face entirely new challenges to which we come back in the supplementary number of the budget. It is important to cooperate with volunteering in order to achieve good integration and to create a good community environment. Voluntary organisations play a significant role in, inter alia: providing Norwegian training, cultural activities, creating meeting places and contributing to dialogue between religious communities. Voluntary participation allows people to participate, while helping to solve many important societal tasks. With the great popular commitment we're now seeing, there's reason to be optimistic. I think the refugees will have the opportunity to be resources in their new communities, but it's also going to be challenges. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity must be prepared to assist municipalities in providing good solutions when they receive many new citizens without knowledge of local conditions. What I have now described is a situation that is going to be demanding for all stages of the asylum chain – in the foreign administration, for the municipalities, for the police, for the health care system, for the protection of children and for the whole of Norwegian society. This may include, inter alia: longer procedural periods, more residents in reception and the need for a significant increase in residence. There is still a lot of uncertainty, but we have to take into account that the refugee crisis can continue. We need to take the necessary steps to ensure that Norway is prepared to deal with any consequences of this in the future. The increased arrivals of asylum will have a major impact in several areas of society. The discussion of this becomes in itself demanding for us as politicians. When we're going to accept so many people, it won't happen painlessly, and we're going to have to make priorities and make choices. We have some clear starting points, and I have explained them today. Migration challenges cannot be solved through strange schemes, but we must seek European and international cooperation. Borders must be protected, and we must have control of asylum flows. We must protect the institution of asylum with a clear and predictable policy of protection and return. We must ensure good integration. At the same time, the economic reality of this is that we have to be sober. But behind all these assumptions we should remember that there are people coming to Norway now with desires, hopes and dreams for the future. Many have had a demanding journey here and may have lived for several years under extremely difficult conditions, with uncertainties and acts of war around them. It's always important to see the individuals in the big numbers. Although this becomes demanding, I know that Norway is able to solve these problems. I am sure that the parties at Stortinget are prepared to participate in this work, and that we can provide a basis for broad agreement on many of the measures. If there's something in general good about the Nordics, it's good. In the autumn there will be a need for political effort. But the efforts and efforts of the Norwegian community will last for years to come. I thank you for the opportunity to explain here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e422	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one contribution of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e427	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the presentation – for the content and for the tone it was given. The number alone, 60 million people on the run, draws a picture of something that's not a passing phenomenon. Unfortunately, the world has no warning that the crises we are facing are on the way to being accompanied, and it illustrates, in a more eloquent way than much, that what is far away can become very close to us in Norway too. I fully agree with the Prime Minister's emphasis on the need to end the wars. There has to be another process of peace and development, which will make people want to turn this challenge around. I also fully agree that we should stand up for people on the run. The instruments that guarantee human flight, protection, are vital to stand up for. In fact, no more than a few decades have passed since Norway itself was dependent on someone being willing to do so. That was before we had the right conventions. And as a Syrian refugee in a boat said, it's not the welfare systems in Europe we're looking for; it's security -- being protected from war, extinction and bombs. So I believe that in this effort we should fence the institution of asylum. So it's not about saying a general yes to migration in this situation, but about taking care of those who need protection. There may be many motives for wanting to travel to Norway — many of them are understandable — but what we are going to stand up for here is the requirement and right of protection. Norway shall take responsibility, diplomatically, through a humanitarian commitment. We must take responsibility with EU countries in the Schengen area, stick to an overall response. If this issue is raised in Europe and 30 countries individually looking for solutions, it won't be better for the refugees, it won't be better for us, and there won't be better opportunities to make an effort outside the region. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the meetings she is going to attend, including: in Valletta. We see in some of the neighbouring countries that not only international traffickers are scouring refugees, but so do countries that believe they are vents towards Europe, which can use it diplomatically, politically and economically. It's a challenge I'm assuming is also coming up at this meeting. I agree with the Prime Minister that we need to find a balance between the humanitarian and the long-term, discuss the arrangement of our assistance. We know that our assistance per capita is high, but we are a small country, so the sum is not the most important thing, but that's the way we use this strategically – that we can also influence the way the world is involved in putting in efforts and getting solutions to crises. Here I would like to encourage the government to have close Nordic cooperation and perhaps to live some of the Nordic cooperation we have had for many years, especially within UN frameworks. So to Norway: The New York Times had on its first page the other day the story of Storskog as an illustration of the geographical contrast, the fact that people are now crossing this border. A dangerous journey may be over for many, now a new journey begins into our society. And I think, as the Prime Minister said several times, that we are facing a completely new situation, and we have to take into account the seriousness of the concept of a completely new situation – or, to put it another way: an extraordinary situation, which can last, with what it requires of us. I agree with the meaning of return – to put it this way. I believe it is related to the desire to protect the institution of asylum, that for those who do not have the right to protection – where it is clarified – it should be returned. We also support the efforts to have more return agreements, but they must contain fundamental guarantees of human rights in order for them to be practised. The extraordinary test us to deal with it practically – in line with our values – and society as a whole must contribute. This means that we – and the Labour Party will support it – must go through all parts of what are now affected: registration, extremely important, by those who come, that they can be sure that they are seen as they are, and that the society that accepts them can be safe about who they are, accommodation and proceedings. But I would warn you that this willingness to improvise and find temporary solutions leads to a downward spiral, which is going to be permanent. These are people who can qualify to be part of a C-class and a D-class in our society. We don't have to set up the auxiliaries and fixtures to make them faster than they should, and we have to try to avoid it. Here I believe that the major challenge for us as a society is integration and to ensure that we have new partnerships between UDI, UNE, volunteering, working life, and not least the municipalities. And this is my last point: these are the municipalities we now have to bet on enabling us to do this job. That's where people live. It is through economics, and it is through burden-sharing. We now see that the municipalities bear different burdens. We in the Workers' Party are open to considering financing solutions that can last over time. We must, as I said, avoid these schemes moving towards defining this as a permanent subclass in Norway. We have to do that good. Finally, I would also like to encourage that there is a good government in between, so that we get one speech from the government, one speech in the invitation to the municipalities, and that the municipalities perceive that they are seen, and encourage them to make the effort they are going to be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e450	Thanks to Prime Minister Erna Solberg for a wide and thorough review of the major challenges now facing Norway and Europe. The refugee situation, which was challenging when we discussed the Syrian refugees, has only worsened through the summer. Now we are facing challenges that require roughness, firmness and new political grips. A little personal reflection: on March 1st and 2nd, 2011, I was with good colleagues here in the Chamber of the Municipal Committee. We were on a tour to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. In Damascus we visited several refugee camps where there were Iraqi refugees, there were Palestinian refugees – there were large, well-run camps in the middle of Damascus. In the evening, several of us rustled around the old town of Damascus. It was a friendly atmosphere, we probably had a feeling that someone was looking after us, but 14 days later the uprising that led to the terrible war we have now seen in Syria – 14 days later. Syria was a printer, the Assad regime apparently had control, and Syria was, as the Prime Minister said, in the process of reaching the UN's Millennium Goal. Today, more than half of the country's population is on the run. 4 million have travelled out of the country, almost 8 million are refugees in their own country. The neighbouring countries have accepted hundreds of thousands, yes millions of refugees, but now many are moving on. The UN has only received 43 pst. of what they have asked for for the refugees in neighbouring countries. Help in the neighbourhoods is essential to provide hope. Hope is lost, new hopes are sought in Europe. TV 2 had a report yesterday evening. The interview was an acid that accepted his brother, and he had one appeal: we need more help in the neighbourhoods. It was his appeal, and it's also important to bring it. I am pleased that the government has also taken the initiative of a donor country conference, and I believe several countries now see the consequences of the lack of assistance. In Norway, we received relatively few Syrian refugees in the first half of the year, but now we have seen a current that only increases in strength. When hundreds of refugees arrive on bicycles across the border of the Churches, when only last week we received 1,946 asylum seekers, half of Syria, all realize that we have a new and great challenge. The Prime Minister had a thorough review, and I am pleased that Norway, as a Schengen country, is actively participating in the work currently under way in the EU and that it is working on a number of axes to help people to escape with dignity in Europe and Norway. At the same time, it is more important than ever to be clear and consistent that the asylum institution should not be eroded by being allowed to stay in the absence of protection. The return work needs to be strengthened, while we are doing massive upgrading of the reception apparatus in this country. Because that's what we need now, a virtue where everyone participates; the UDI, the police, the health services, the municipalities, the child protection, the volunteer organizations and anyone who wants to contribute to the Norwegian community. The municipalities have done a great job this year – 11,000 settlements are far past years, but we need many more places in months to come. The majority and political Norway also have a challenging task. We have to find the right quantity and the right quantity and the right quality. With the great influx we are seeing now, innovation and creative action will be needed that can quickly bring the refugees to the fore, while at the same time ensuring good integration work, where the goal of Norwegian knowledge and participation in the labour market are important milestones. The Government now announces that additional appropriations will be required for 2015 and, if not for a long time, the Government will present an additional number to be entered in the budget for 2016. Norway has long and proud humanist traditions. In 1922, Fridtjof Nansen Nobel was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on refugees. Now it is Europe and Norway that are being tested. The government is inviting to political action. Let us show that we can work together on solutions that deliver results both in and around Syria, on the islands of Greece, in Italy, in the EU, in Schengen and here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e469	First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for taking the initiative to come to the Storting and give this thorough account. It is affordable and absolutely necessary. There is a serious situation in which this magnification, Norway and the world community in general, is now facing. Millions of people are driven away. More than 700,000 people have crossed Europe's borders this year and more are expected to arrive. Despite the world’s current situation in the region, the UN lacks large sums to meet the very basic needs of those in the neighbourhood. This concerns food, water, medicine and roof over the head. UNHCR has asked for 6.2 billion. US dollars in 2015 to help dozens of millions of refugees – only 43 pst. is fulfilled. The UN has therefore had to go to the step of cutting in the matrices of hundreds of thousands of people in the region around Syria. The fact that these people are fleeing a life - threatening path — including: over the Mediterranean — in the search for a better life, should not come as a surprise. That was also the reason why the Progress Party in our proposal was to grant more funds to help in the neighbourhood. Many of these people have felt compelled to stop fleeing, and many seek refuge in Norway. As we have heard, 4,900 people have come to Norway only in September. In October, further developments took place: at week 40, 1,500 asylum seekers arrived in Norway, and last week almost 2000 people arrived. The Norwegian reception apparatus is heavily pressed, and we now see that reception centres and asylum reception centres are being established in several places in the country to remedy the acute situation. The government has set up funds and measures in a number of fields. You have changed staff, you look at alternative ways to do it, and not least the municipalities have also set up. It's not just acids that are now coming to Norway. The migration we see now through Europe means that there are many people who are on the move. We also see that in our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, 9 363 asylum seekers arrived in week 41. Only 33 pst. Of these were from Syria, 28 pst. was from Afghanistan and 21 p.m. was from Iraq. Also in Norway there is an ever lower proportion coming from Syria. In week 41, they were less than half of those seeking asylum, and in the second quarter of this year, there were only 21 pst. of those registered in the EU who were asylum seekers from Syria. We see that more and more people come from Afghanistan, Iraq and the Balkans. That's why we're totally dependent on getting an even better and more efficient return system in place, so that those people who don't need the protection we're talking about can be returned faster, so that we get focused on those people who really have the need for protection that we know they actually have. The influx of asylum will incur significant costs. We have also heard the Prime Minister explain that. As we have also heard, one asylum seeker costs, on average, approx. One million. DKK over five years. This does not apply to the lone minor asylum seeker, which costs significantly more. In addition, we also know that considerable expenditure will be incurred in relation to the application for family reunification, which in particular the younger, single asylum seekers will apply for. It's important that we work along many axes in this room. We're totally dependent on getting good help for the people who're going to be here. We need a good receiver, we need good records, but we need to work with other countries. We need to make the Schengen external border work again. We need to get the other nations in Europe to register those who actually come in, if not the Dublin Convention will not be able to be justified in the coming years. In addition, we need to be more effective at sending out those who are not supposed to be here, and we need to make sure that we are able to provide the health services that are needed for those who come here. I fear that there may be problems both in terms of health care and other follow-up if we do not at the same time ensure that those who do not need protection are quickly sent out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e488	I want to thank the Prime Minister for a very good and wide deal. There is a demanding perspective from the Prime Minister on this issue. That's why I'm very pleased with the signals that Norway is ready in some areas. In other areas, we're going to do even better and more capable and ready to make an effort. It won't be easy, but we have to do what we can to contribute. This is how the high number of refugees we now experience – 60 million, as the Prime Minister says – is a reason. We now feel that more countries than ever before are at the highest level of crisis in the United Nations. This is true of South Sudan, it is true of Iraq, it is true of the Central African Republic and the situation we are experiencing in Syria. There is a great need for humanitarian relief in crisis areas. There is a need for emergency assistance to meet all elementary needs and also for more long-term support to ensure meaningful lives and employment for Syrian refugees in the neighbourhood. I think it's a good example the Prime Minister uses when she talks about Syria, which five years ago was a middle-income country. We could see an old episode of "Top Gear", where one ran through Syria. It was just a shame to watch that program. So one saw four or five years ago a well-functioning country in many ways, a great journey through a historic country, and now we are experiencing the worst crisis situation we can imagine. It is quite right, as the Prime Minister also says, that there are other countries that are also experiencing instability: North Africa and the Sahel region attract the Prime Minister. It's true when it comes to Syria, that we let it go, we let it go, and then it's important that we don't make that mistake again, and that's why it's important that we just keep on fighting poverty. Is it the case that the aid budget needs to be used more to combat migration? No, however, it must combat poverty, war and conflict – and therefore migration. We must use the aid budget to do this: combat poverty, war and conflict. I have also noticed what the Foreign Minister has said, that there is actually an artificial distinction between humanitarian aid and long-term aid. I agree with that, because this is about how we can be involved and contribute and help. So now there are 700,000 refugees who have made their way to Europe this year, and Norway is also experiencing considerable pressure. What's important is that Norway comes with and takes responsibility. The Prime Minister challenges us on this with return, and then I want to say that I fully agree with what the Prime Minister says, that it is important to think back just to secure them with real protection, and that we should not look for strange solutions, but seek European and international cooperation on what is necessary. We haven't dimensioned our receiver for the high number of asylum seekers we're experiencing. That's why I like the Income Center. What is done with the registration work, we are forced to improve, and I fully agree with what the Prime Minister says about the enormous voluntary work we see. And if there's a call I want to join, what the Prime Minister says is that we now need foster homes for single minor asylum seekers. There's going to be costs, but sometimes we have to do what's right. It requires the current situation. When we talk about a good deal, we also have to be willing in this room to maybe wait with some bets or look at changes in the budget to just do some of the most important things, but the world's poor are not the ones who are going to pay this due.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e509	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for a statement that gave a thorough and good picture of the situation we are facing, and which was also based on the major international conflicts that are the very reason for the great flow of refugees and migration we are now seeing inward across Europe. It is difficult, but it is absolutely necessary that those conflicts are addressed by the world community in a way that can create room for dialogue in the future. I would like to stress that it is a great responsibility that now lies with the world community, that one avoids escalating conflicts both in fact and rhetorically, both parties in the region and parties outside the region. And the UN's clear responsibility is very important. Norway also needs to provide refugees, whether in its neighbourhoods or in Norway. The centre party has long called for a donor country conference, and we are very positive that such a conference will be held at the beginning of next year. Helping neighbourhoods is going to be important. The closest neighbouring countries to Syria have taken a great deal of responsibility, and they need to get more assistance from the international community in further work than they have so far received. I also want to say that I understand that a greater part of what we give in international aid is being tied up with humanitarian aid. But it's also important to have a balance sheet. It must not be such that it is easy to pick up money from the aid budget and that an excessive share of funding for long-term and bilateral aid is reduced in favour of humanitarian aid. Finding a good balance between humanitarian needs and long-term and bilateral assistance is very important, in particular in the construction of civil society and economy, which the Prime Minister had in mind was a critical factor in many countries. The most intrusive thing in Norway is the reception of refugees here. Here in the East we see a large flow of refugees, but also in Finnmark. I believe it is important that we have an effective and good reception, that we meet the refugees with warmth, but also that we meet the influx of asylum with firmness. Those in need of protection will receive it in Norway, those in need of care, from our society, but those in need of protection will have a quick return. The centre party is open to look at temporary solutions in terms of reception, but I have to say that in the case of tent camps as accommodation, there is a measure to which the centre party is very sceptical. The framework for integration will also be important in the years to come. The framework of that system is going to pass, but I think we also have to think about how we can make things more flexible, and maybe even more reasonable. The municipalities are the hub of integration work, and the work of the municipalities on integration must be fully funded in the years to come, unless we are going to unlock the potential needed for the settlement and integration of refugees and asylum seekers in Norway. We need to be more flexible and to help refugees and asylum seekers get into an active everyday life more quickly, and giving temporary work permits quickly is one of the measures to do so. Language training from one point to another in Norway is another measure, and validating education and making it convertible into activities in Norway is also very important. I also share the view that a voluntary sector must be mobilised in a completely different way from what we have done so far. It's happened very well, it's doing very well, and we see it not least in the acute situation we're up in now, but there are also opportunities for mobilizing much more in the future. We also need to think again about the housing situation and the housing situation of those who come, in the short term in terms of reception, but also in the longer term in terms of integration. Norway is facing major challenges in accepting people who have had to flee. But we're also a society that has great opportunities to meet such a challenge. Then it's also important, when we might get tough and painful discussions in the future, that we think in the long term, that we get a broad political consensus, and that all the parties in the further work are willing to put away some capheters to actually come up with broad consensus and broad decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e530	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister, and I am pleased that she took an initiative to come here with a statement. It is important that we have a dialogue with the Storting when dealing with such major challenges. I want to start by stating that international changes and agendas also affect a country like Norway. It's not like we're an island up here in the north, which is not affected by large movements of people, as we see now. What is happening now creates great challenges, both to maintain humanity in our systems, and also to maintain the principles upon which our international conventions are built. It is clear that many of these conventions were created at a time when it was about individual refugees who needed protection from persecution from individual regimes, while today we see that there are people who need protection and who make other types of demands to us for how we meet it. Our strength as a country is the Norwegian spirit of virtue, that we have a people who set up when it is really needed. And we have a political culture in this room that is about creating a broad, good compromise when we are actually facing major challenges. And one of the political challenges we're facing is to think new, to think differently from what we've done in the past, when we've met other types of challenges. For me, the worst thing that can happen now is that we get a huge collection of things because of it. lack of procedural capacity, people staying for a long time at reception without a reply, people staying even longer at reception to wait for a place to live — instead of saying that we now need a great deal of effort to get the proceedings out of the way quickly and quickly. The left would like a quick return of those who are not going to be here, but those who are actually going to be here need to get an answer quickly, and they must also get the answer that in Norway we have expectations for them. Then the effort we're going to be in must be a virtue that the refugees must also be in. It's in the nature of the work. And then we should have a system that made people get to work quickly, quickly became integrated, that we thought new, both when it comes to language education, and when it comes to how to get people to work in Norwegian society as quickly as possible. Then it is also important that we in Europe stand together when we see that many of our values and many of the systems we have are being pressured. I was in Italy before the weekend and met a lot of the management in the departments working on this, in one of the countries that are really in the periphery, and that really experience a lot of refugees reaching their borders. And seas in a country receiving 140 000 refugees, the Ministry of the Interior's councils rejoiced that he had placed 19 Eritreans on the plane to Luleå that morning, as the first group Europe shared. It showed that they were part of Europe, that they were part of something that others around could also set up, and I think it motivates them to do their job as a borderline for our common Schengen borders in a better way. We have a major challenge in getting the lone minors well integrated and with good measures around us. It may not be true that many single minors are asking for family reunification, but there are many single minors who need good care procedures around them in order to be able to function well in the society they are going to live on. To finish, I think we can do this. Norway should really be a country that can handle this. But then we have to help those who need it, then we have to have support for those who need it the most, and we have to have a virtue that includes those who are coming. We must have clear expectations of people coming, and explain to them that the Norwegian model of society is based on a split and a virtue that includes everyone. But then everyone has to have the opportunity to contribute to the Norwegian community. And then there are many of the arrangements we have today around receiving refugees, which we actually have to change, so that it is possible for them also to participate in that due diligence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e547	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for the presentation, for several actions that SV can support, and for the way in which the Prime Minister concluded the presentation. That tone and that perspective I think will be important in the future. At the same time, after a comment round with a lot of consensus, I think it is also important to stress that part of the virtue the Prime Minister invites to, must be an honest debate about what we disagree about, if we are to move on. There has been a lot of disagreement over the year and a half that Stortinget has been discussing the refugee crisis, until now. We have seen the situation last autumn, when SV and other opposition parties proposed strengthening the efforts in the Mediterranean and a new division of responsibilities within the Dublin Agreement, and were rejected, in ours, when we said that the Syria agreement was inadequate, and was rejected when that was the case, earlier in the autumn, when several opposition parties demanded that Norway take part in the European responsibility for relocalisation, which the government is now opening up, and have a different solution for the registration of refugees than cows on the Tøjen – even then we were rejected. The reason why I mention this is that readiness is the ability to see and will to act before reality forces us to do so. I believe that by several important crossroads is a test this government has not passed. It has not rusted the receiver – on the contrary cut in it until not long ago – doubted the target for return despite the fact that trust leaders in the police underline that it has gone beyond our ability both to receive people in a good way and to send out heavy criminals. And there has been a lack of initiative towards the voluntary sector, which was one of the things the Syria agreement would lead to. When costs are and will be a theme in the budget debates beyond the fall, I think it is important that we remember ourselves that we have all been aware that solidarity costs. There is no solidarity that costs us nothing. In the long term – as the Prime Minister stresses – costs will depend on how well we succeed in integration. But I think it's important to remind ourselves that we've never said that we should accept refugees because we have a expectation that every person should pay off – we do it because we want to be a decent country. The government also has the task of guarding that propriety. Then I believe it is in its place to point out that we have a campaign behind us in which one government party has been fighting election precisely to argue for a contradiction between the well-being of the North and the efforts of the refugees, and that the Minister of Finance said no last week to come to the Stortinget to answer questions about whether she stands at the invitation she made to the municipalities in the election campaign, if not to settle. This is relevant, because the performance of the Progress Party poses a problem for the credibility of the government in a serious situation. I want to support the Prime Minister that we have to say yes to some temporary measures, some of the solutions we might not normally have accepted, in order to deal with the refugee crisis. But I would also like to stress that these must be compromises on groups other than children. It is extremely important that we now see the need not to rust down, but to rust up the quality of the receptions for the lone minor asylum seekers. We know that there are too few adults, too few with pediatric competence, in receptions today. It has to be a main task, I think, for the government to renovate these receptions forward. In addition to the autumn, SV will continue to make proposals for Norway to take greater international responsibility, ending with Dublin returns to countries such as Italy. We want a new boat to the Mediterranean, we want increased humanitarian efforts in the neighbourhoods. Then we believe that we need to take what the Prime Minister says, seriously in terms of the housing challenge. But then the Storting must also dry to think new, dry to discuss a new housing model according to Danish and Swedish patterns, as SV has suggested in Stortinget, which is a model that would work. The majority of the population must also dare to make controversial decisions if we are to succeed in the effort we are now invited to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e566	Thanks to the Prime Minister for a good and broad presentation, which I think shows that the debate on the refugee problem, the refugee challenge and the refugee obligation here in Norway is on track. We're now talking about reality, because we've put behind us a period before the summer when we were too willing to take it over. There were many signals from the Prime Minister that the Green Party can support, and on which I think it is good to build. The integration of refugees is now one of the most important challenges we face. It is important that we now start discussing how integration in receptions can become much more effective. We know that the longer we keep people waiting, the harder it becomes to convince the refugees themselves, the employers and the community that they belong here, and that they can contribute here. This applies, for example: that it may be possible to work before interview and that we now have to reverse the recently introduced requirements for documentation for obtaining a temporary work permit. Such an action will support integration and it is highly likely that it will also save the UDI for additional proceedings. It is a major challenge that it is so difficult for refugees to get into work even after a residence permit has been granted and the introduction programme has been implemented. Then it's interesting to, for example, a municipality such as Rälingen, one of the best integration municipalities in Norway, has just made a proposal for a professional certification, or a simplified professional letter, which may give formal competence to refugees. It can have a major impact on their ability to get into work. That is the kind of action we now need to look after, and I hope that the government will consider giving an answer on how to deal with this. Another instrument may be to increase access to the use of Nav’s State instruments, including in the introduction programmes. Today we see that Nav has a good deal of good measures, such as wage subsidies, mentoring schemes, etc., which can also be used for refugees. We have to assume that the situation we are now facing is going to be long, maybe very long. This means that we need an internal division of labour in Norway where all municipalities contribute. Today, a good and integrated refugee apparatus is hindered by the fact that people's settlement and integration are not regarded as an ordinary municipal task in the same way as other welfare services. So it's despite the fact that we all now agree that Norway has to comply with its obligations and take its share of helping people on the run. The Green Party believes that assigned housing could actually create more predictability in an otherwise unforeseeable situation because both municipalities, UDI and IMDI know how many Norway will live – or at least know more about it – so that everyone can stand ready and that everyone can plan introduction programmes in a better way than now. Norway is one of the countries with the highest returns. It is important that Norway returns asylum seekers who do not have a need for protection, but it is also important that this does not go at the expense of other proceedings or of legal certainty to those who actually need protection. This means that we need a general strengthening of UDI's ability to deal with these issues, but it also means that we need to focus more on not creating a control bureaucracy. Several of the government's constraints on asylum and refugee policy have made the situation of those who have received protection difficult and have prevented integration. This applies, for example: the introduction of a shorter deadline for refugees to seek reunification with family and the signal that the government will give more priority to reassessment of temporary residence permits. Finally, the debate is about money. Then it's important to establish once and for all, as several others have been faced with: it can't be a condition for us to help people in distress, for it not to cost money on the ordinary budgets, and we can't rely solely on helping people in need to be financed by taking money from other people in need. It's not a problem for society that it costs us something to help, it's a problem for our society if we make it a problem that it takes a little bit to set up for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e595	The President will now give the floor to the Prime Minister for a final statement of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e598	I want to thank them mainly for the positive feedback and not least for the response I experience to the formidable work ahead of a whole political Norway, and a whole Norway, with the influx of refugees we see today. It could have been tempting to go into polemics on some of the posts, but I just want to say that I have a slightly different perception of what has happened, than the representative Lightbakken has, also with regard to understanding that we had to have a new reception structure on the Tøj, but I think there is a little bit of discussion about the big challenge we are facing right now. I would like to stress – if we all agree that we must have a return – that sending signals that people who do not need a stay should not come from a country, have actually had the effect of having had a good return to some areas already, but then we have to carry out the return. If we do not carry out the return, we will receive more asylum seekers from the areas to which we do not return. That's some of the lessons we have. When we look at the difference between inflows into Norway and to, for example, inflows into Norway. countries like Germany from the Balkans, there is just one answer that is behind it – it is the return policy Norway has had over the years, where we have been clear that we have to send people back. It is an important part of ensuring the functioning of the asylum institution, to clarify quickly and to send those who do not need asylum. There will be challenges on all parts of the reception capacity. It's not a goal for us to have camps or anything. We've had tent camps in Norway before. That's not our goal either, but we probably have to look at measures now and use areas of a different type of standard than we've been used to. And I want to say, the standard at Norwegian reception has not been good, but we will simply be missing areas and places to receive. That means we have to look at new forms of this in the future. Our biggest challenge is to achieve good integration. There's room to make this closer, have greater pressure on integration policy than we've had in recent years. We see that the results of the introduction system have become worse on participation in the labour market and others in recent years. It may have a background in who has come, and what background they have, but it is important to have tough pressure that when you come to Norway and live in a municipality, the job number is one to be integrated, involved and able to support yourself from day one. I'm glad there's a broad majority here who have expressed it. There's room for doing this. The best municipalities do it better and get better results than others. However, we should not underestimate the fact that when some municipalities have good results, it is partly because they have better cooperation with their local business and perhaps also with another local business. The roll is an example. So there are some big companies with a lot of employees – Coca-Cola and Posten – who have been big recipients of people who are relatively newcomers. One of the challenges in our society is that we have few jobs for unskilled people. It makes it harder. We're going to look at schemes that can help us document knowledge in a better way. There were already arrangements in the state budget to go into it to get people to work faster. The question of granting a work permit earlier is an assessment we should make in the light of the wishes of Stortinget. I think it's important that we have an identity statement. It is a fundamental requirement that you have passports or other clear identification, so that we know who is there, so that you can get a temporary work permit. It's important to have control over who's in the country. It's a security issue, which I think we have to take on the highest seriousness. I think the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss all the details of this. Now it was first and foremost important to say that we have a strategy that concerns the long-term lines internationally, to work for Europe's legislation to come into place, so that we can sort out the external borders and get better control of the influx to all European countries in the future, and then we will have to build up much more capacity and work in a different way both within the asylum chain and in the municipalities in terms of integration. I think, as I said, that we have the potential to do it in Norway, which I also concluded by saying, because we have a lot of resources we can draw on, but we have to view this as a lot of work. Our biggest challenge is that if we don't get control of the outer boundaries, if there isn't going to be a system in Europe that has more control over this, we don't know what the numbers are going to be. They can be much bigger than what we see today when we see what our neighbouring countries now get.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e615	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President proposes that the statement by the Prime Minister on migration and the refugee situation around the Mediterranean and in Europe be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e633	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e640	The issue we are about to deal with now concerns the situation related to increased asylum arrivals in 2015. I would like to thank the Committee for its work, which has gone – in the terminology of the Stortinget – unusually quickly, and also inform you that we have had a good and thorough hearing on the matter. I also want to say thank you to all those who work, at all stages, with the receipt of increased asylum arrivals in Norway, and also to all those who contribute to Norway outside the world – be it in the vicinity of the conflicts or in the Mediterranean. As with many other European countries, Norway has strong participation and support in the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. There is a clear understanding that today's situation is also a result of the growing difference between well-functioning states and those characterized by conflicts, violence, dictatorship, war and agitation. We see that in the year we are now in, there has been a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers from several countries in Europe, but also outside. We have now heard the Prime Minister give a broad and thorough briefing on the international situation, in Europe and in Norway. I will therefore focus on the specificities of this proposition and what it is about, which is what we have seen of increased asylum arrivals after the end of the state budget in May to June. The number of asylum seekers, often referred to as arrivals in Europe and Norway, addresses the need for additional financial resources — including other, but especially financial, which are our responsibility. And the arrivals we see in Norway today are on a historically high level. The Government has submitted a proposal for an increase in appropriations of 227.1 million. kr, and during the Committee's examination, the entire Committee has, in some respects, added to this additional appropriation. It's about 48 million. kr to increased capacity in reception, increased capacity in the UDI, increased child-reliance in the Police Foreign Unit and strengthening organisations specifically to ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers in Norway. That is, the increase is 48 million. SEK on the capacity extension and SEK 9 million. kr to the smaller, but important things that I mentioned – together 57 million. NOK in addition to the SEK 227 million. kr. The sharp increase in asylum seekers in Norway poses significant challenges for the foreign administration, police, child protection, municipalities — yes, for the whole of Norwegian society. The refugee crisis is not just a European problem, but calls on the entire needs of the international community for organised and coordinated action. In Norway, we can expect a significant number of asylum seekers this year – over 20 000 – and the forecasts are increasing. Public Norway, municipalities, voluntary and religious organisations, businesses, families and individuals participate in reception, housing and integration. As with many other European countries, Norway has seen strong participation and support in the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. We are facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II – 60 million refugees from wars and conflicts – and the government has taken a number of measures to support the countries from which the refugees come to rescue operations in the Mediterranean and to combat the humanitarian crises that are forcing people to flee. Those seeking protection in Norway will be offered accommodation, and the UDI will also now set up a number of new asylum facilities to accommodate all those arriving. It requires increased capacity, and it also requires increased financial resources. As many asylum seekers have arrived in a very short time, the UDI also cooperates with a number of actors to ensure that the system has sufficient capacity. In addition to accommodation for all persons registered as asylum seekers in Norway, the UDI is now also to ensure that the night accommodation offer is available to persons who have applied for asylum with the Foreign Office of the Police in Oslo but have not yet been registered. It is also worth noting that the UDI has a special budgetary authority to exceed what we might have given out of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e666	Accepting the large number of refugees and asylum seekers who come to Europe in a dignified and secure manner is a major task. But there is hardly any country that should have better conditions to do that than Norway. It is impressive to see how volunteers, both individuals and organisations, have put up with practical efforts and not least by taking moral leadership in the situation. Solidarity with refugees means that all parts of Norwegian society must mobilise and extend further. It concerns the state agencies, the municipalities, the volunteers and the neighbours. The Workers' Party will also contribute constructively to the Stortinget to find good solutions. We also have a basic expectation and demand that the government now do what it can to ensure worthy conditions for those who come to the country, with legal certainty, good preparedness and assistance for those on the first line. We expect that one has learned from the Tøen, where the government was late at the ball and absent in the situation, and we expect an overall government to do its utmost to deal satisfactorily with the situation. On several important points, the Municipal Committee has improved the government's proposal for supplementary appropriations in the year's budget, and that was absolutely necessary. In particular, let me point to increased processing capacity in UDI and 48 million. kr to strengthen the reception of lone minors between 15 and 18 years of age. But it is worth noting that while the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that this money should be used to strengthen crew density and child professional competence, the government and the support parties will use the money to expand the capacity, and it is a power of authority that the government already has. We are also disappointed that the bulk of the population will not be involved in proposals to increase the allocation of asylum-receipt municipalities. We record that several municipalities are now resisting the establishment of asylum recipients because they are uncertain about how it will burden municipal health services and budgets or other preparedness and capacity in the municipality. We must expect all the municipalities to come up with this exceptional situation, but in order to do so, the government must ensure good coordination and logistics, ensure that the UDI has close contact with the municipalities, that they clarify uncertainties, not least related to health and otherwise preparedness, and not least that the additional costs are covered in such a way as not to weaken the other services of the municipalities. Supporting municipalities now is crucial to managing the situation in a good way, both in the short and long term. The municipality of South Varanger is under pressure because of the increased influx of asylum seekers across the Norwegian-Russian border. The municipality has done a great job here, including: establishing a transit reception facility for 150 refugees, and this has been done in addition to several other receptions that have arrived in the municipality. Nevertheless, the Church has now become a bottleneck because it takes too much time before people are sent on to ordinary reception. When more than 1,000 refugees cross the border, it is a major challenge for a small community. But there aren't very many in the big context, and therefore the government has to make sure that a national responsibility is now taken, and that one sets out what is needed for things to work in the Church's, both worthy of arrival and rapid return of those who do not have the right to stay. But if the 48-hour rule is to be practised, it requires both the presence of the UDI and resources. We now have to prepare for what's coming around the next turn, that many of those who are refugees today are going to be residents and taxpayers in Norway tomorrow. In order to succeed, integration must start from day one in reception, with clear expectations, language training, activity and work training. The competence of asylum seekers needs to be monitored, and we are pleased that a unanimous committee will make it easier to obtain temporary work permits for asylum seekers. We expect the government to come back quickly with a case to the Stortinget about it. There are large costs related to reception and integration, we should not devalue it, but these people also represent a great resource and great opportunities for Norway and Norwegian communities. We have a big task ahead of us, but the Norwegian society has done a lot of work before, so we also have to face this situation with a basic belief that this is what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e685	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e688	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e693	Then the representative, Helga Pedersen, addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e696	We're facing an extraordinary situation. The asylum flow to Europe is 250 pst. higher in August 2015 compared to August 2014 and 2014 was already a record year. Norway is no longer protected from this development, and we have seen a massive increase in the number of asylum seekers this autumn. This increase is not only due to the war in Syria, then only 30 p.m. by applicants for asylum indicate that they have a Syrian background. UDI projections are very uncertain, but estimate that Norway will receive between 25 000 and 30 000 asylum seekers during 2015. The situation has escalated rapidly and estimates have been adjusted for the third time in three weeks. The 2016 UDI estimate is over 30000, but continues to develop in recent months, it will be significantly higher and the challenges will significantly increase. If we assume that the trend for the last few weeks remains stable, there will be more than 84 000 asylum seekers in Norway in the next year. At week 41, Norway, as mentioned above, took 2 000 asylum seekers and, looking at this development and summing up to 52 weeks, it is seen that it will be possible to reach 104 000 asylum seekers in one year, and with family reunification, it can quickly turn out to be hundreds of thousands of people in the long term, just as a result of what we welcome this year. There is also little evidence that the flow of asylum to Europe will slow down in the foreseeable future. This issue is about the increased funds needed in 2015 to deal with an asylum claim amounting to 16 000 asylum seekers. I am also sure that there will be further proposals from the government if the forecasts for 2015 were to be adjusted once again. It is positive that the Government of the Proposition has announced that there will be additional numbers on how to deal with the increased influx of asylum. The present difficult and demanding situation requires an overall approach. I therefore believe it is important and right that we should evaluate the measures the government is promoting, in a comprehensive draft budget. But it should also be clear to most that today's asylum system is over-modern for reform. The asylum system was designed to protect individuals who were in need of protection on an individual basis. The asylum system was not designed to be able to handle millions of people in refugees and hundreds of thousands of people who migrate at the same time across borders. The situation also makes it difficult because, according to the UN, there are now 60 million people on the run in the world. Millions do not receive enough emergency aid, and only a small proportion of refugees will ever have the financial, capacity and resources to get to Europe in order to seek asylum. Only in Syria does the UN need at least 30 billion. NOK for emergency aid. This enormous need for the vast majority of Syrian refugees was the reason why the Progress Party proposed an increase in emergency aid to Syria by 1 billion. kr. We don't think it should be necessary to travel half the world in order to seek protection. We need to look at solutions that lead to a fairer distribution between the world of 60 million refugees and at the same time ensure that Europe receives a number of refugees that are sustainable over time. The aim of the Progress Party is to ensure that as many people as possible have the security they need, and not that a small minority will have a large increase in material standard of living. We should therefore be able to assess all the points in this debate and also look at some of the treaties that may have run out of time. Finally, I would just like to say that it is also possible to learn from the asylum policy we have pursued so far. This sudden belief that people who are only given temporary work permits will get into work has proved not to be valid for those who have already received Norwegian citizenship. If we look at the largest refugee groups in Norway, from Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq, it is not the people who only have work permits, but the people who are Norwegian citizens. If we look at the participation of these groups, there is nothing to suggest that many asylum seekers should get into work only if they receive a temporary work permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e711	In 2015, Europe experienced a larger flow of refugees than the countries, including Norway, were prepared for. The Dublin rules, which would regulate the interaction between countries in the Schengen area, i.e. in the EU/EEA countries, would regulate registration and further residence. This was to be done in a common understanding, but has now come under strong pressure, and there is a need for completely new agreements and new solutions. This autumn it has become clear that the number of refugees is larger and comes along new fluctrates, which few had foreseen. When tens of millions are on the move in the world, and we have wars and states in part in disintegration close to Europe, Norway will also notice the consequences and have greater co-responsibility. What concerns me in particular, I think, is the high number of minors. It is tragic for those countries that are losing their youth and some of their future, and it is challenging for those countries that are going to accept and ensure that they have a decent stay. The UN High Commissioner calls this a major refugee crisis. It has so far had the mark of being an emergency situation, but we understand that the situation will continue. As a decent, civilised and, in particular, resource-resourced nation, Norway has a responsibility and a duty to set up. This situation can only be resolved by internationally committed cooperation where all countries contribute. This applies both to the long-term fight against the cause of the refugee and to the short-term expansion of the UN's capacity for relief work in the neighbourhoods. We are therefore pleased that the Committee has added to this matter so that it will be a good solution for 2015, and we look forward to the additional proposition coming for 2016, where this will be re-examined in a wider context. It is important that each refugee feels that he is received in a dignified and humane way, while managing both the immigration-regulating considerations – because it is necessary – and the institution of asylum, and that it does so in a good case-law. The emergency relief work is now better put in place here in the country, and it's going to work. However, in order to finance this, aid funds are converted in accordance with the OECD principle, which is called ODA funds. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that development aid goes to the neighbourhoods. It is just now important to maintain appropriations for targeted aid work that can counteract refugees, perhaps from countries we have not yet thought of. Because if one good purpose, aid for emergency work in this region, is at the expense of long-term refugee work and relief work, we can expect the flow of refugees to increase. The Christian People's Party therefore expects the additional proposition that comes for 2016 in early November to take this into account, for now we need to be aware of several aspects at the same time. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the cooperation agreement with the government, that we have a point of renewing and improving the reception situation. This work includes the improvement of housing and integration policies, and this work has recently begun. The changes in these structures will take time, but it will make us better able to deal with the refugee situation when it comes to it. There are in particular two aspects of the Christian People's Party that will put the search light on in the matter we have up now. One concerns the waiting time for asylum interviews and the processing time. It takes too long for those who are likely to be granted a residence permit and have a need for protection. This is a bad start to integration and language training. It's depressing to sit and wait, and it's bad social economy. If the interview and residence status are clarified earlier, the refugees will become part of society more quickly and take part in duties and responsibilities. Many of those who come are both grateful and motivated for their efforts, but instead they are waiting. The second focus must be on the provision of care for lone minor asylum seekers. Children and young people of that age are particularly vulnerable and need good care and protection. So far this year, 18 children have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients, last year 42. We can't have it that way. Child protection institutions have a completely different standard of living, with one employee per three children, while today there are transit receptions with 200 to 300 minors between 15 and 18 years of age with perhaps only five employees at work. More child-care education is required and perhaps a closer crew. Now more receptions are to be set up in a short time, and this is an important principle. I would otherwise say that the Christian People's Party is very pleased with the increase in the framework of the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e737	It has become clear to all that the reception apparatus for refugees must be stepped up vigorously as a result of the increase in the number of asylum seekers. It is therefore good that a broad majority supports several of the proposals to strengthen the response chain in addition to the prudent government proposals. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that the blue alliance will not be on a single crown in strengthening the municipalities, who also have something to do with unforeseen extra costs far beyond what they have within their own budget. The refugee situation has changed in a short time – it is. Nevertheless, there is reason to wonder that the presentation of the revised national budget in spring, and not least in the submission of the State budget last week, proposes a step down rather than a step up in the measures aimed at the reception and settlement of refugees. The Government has also announced an additional proposition for 2016. It should have been possible to provide a budget for next year that had more captured the realities we have all been aware of for a while. It is possible that the government's budgetary presentation strategy would be poorly suited to realising the budget on the basis of the cost challenges it is actually facing. The consultation carried out by the Committee gave very different presentations of the situation. The state councils, meeting with their agencies, expressed a challenging situation over which they had control. The volunteer organizations gave us a picture of a heavily pressed reception apparatus that had major problems dealing with the challenges, and an impression of unacceptable conditions. The impression I get from reports around the country tells of a situation that is far from satisfactory. The problem of the Police Foreign Unit with the registration of refugees in Oslo, we know. Now the center is open, and we have to hope it will improve the situation. The same is not true of the border crossing in South Varanger. Also there has been an influx of refugees far exceeding capacity. The municipality has assumed responsibility for operating transit receptions. They tell of an influx far beyond capacity, and that the UDI does not have the power to pass the refugees on to normal reception since there are few reception points in the region. Many have, and for good reason, criticised the organisation of the asylum receiver. Very short-term agreements based on the construction of the receiving apparatus from month to month have provided a large under-cover of reception points. I take note of the assessments of Norwegian People's Aid, which itself operates more asylum recipients. They were in doubt if they would continue to do so on the basis of the tender regime underpinning it. One of their proposals, which I ask to be carefully considered, is to establish a strain of long-term agreements that ensure more stability, and that there are mainly short-term fluctuations covered by today's contractual form. The inclusion councils, the IMFI and the voluntary organisations have been supporting the efforts of the municipalities in recent times. The notification of housing figures shows that municipalities have heard the appeals for increased reception, but there is a need for stronger municipal efforts to be made in the future. Some include: SV in its proposal for a representative, calls for the system of contractual residence to be replaced by free or compulsory residence. From the centre party we will warn against this. Municipalities take on huge tasks by receiving refugees. Housing shall be provided, integration programmes shall be provided with language, social education, etc. training shall be provided, children's playgrounds and school facilities shall be provided for the young. It must also be a working life that accepts resident refugees so that they can build a future based on self-sufficiency. We have to show respect for the fact that it is demanding to deliver according to these assumptions. I think this respect is lacking when some people say that it is today a good store for the municipalities to settle refugees. In fact, the state’s own figures show that the integration aid covers only 90 pst. The centre party will facilitate increased municipal settlement of refugees. We will do this by continuing today's contractual settlement system, ensuring that the integration grant is stepped up and ensuring that child protection measures get good funding back. In a short time, the Central Party proposed that a billion-dollar integration should be provided to help refugees get into work more quickly and become integrated into the Norwegian community. In connection with the State budget, we will come back to the measures this money will be used for. We believe that cooperation with non-governmental organisations needs to be better organised. Language training must start from day one, and we believe that a more rapid assessment of the skills and training of refugees today and the provision of continuing education and training is needed to adapt their skills to Norwegian circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e760	The number of asylum seekers we now have is at an historically high level. The sharp increase, especially in the number of minors, has been a challenge for our administration. The sharp increase in the number of single minor asylum seekers has also posed a challenge for county offices. The Prime Minister gave a good and broad account of the situation in the previous case. When there are as many as 60 million people on the run, it goes without saying that there is an extraordinary situation, not least that one expects to receive more than 23 000 – as was also said by the Prime Minister – next year. It is important that municipalities, volunteers and several others participate in the reception and settlement of refugees. In 2015, there has been a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers in several European countries. From the summer of this year, the increase in the number has increased, especially due to the fact that there are much more people from Syria, as well as a sharp increase in the number of minor asylum seekers. In this context, it is of course Norway’s duty to help people seeking protection from persecution. This is a responsibility that we must share with Europe. It is also important that we make a number of agencies, such as state child protection, able to provide the lone minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age with good offers. Therefore, it is important that Bufetat and private actors, who have had to adapt quickly to the situation, are also dimensioned for this in the future. But to succeed in integration, it is absolutely crucial, as Trine Skei Grande said: we need to think again and start the integration processes faster. We've been talking about new things for a long time. Therefore, it was also gratifying that a number of parties, some time ago, were willing to participate and think again – to give them, with the possibility of both small and large communities, a rapid and effective procedure, but also to meet protection requirements, so that those entitled to protection are allowed to stay. Those who are not supposed to be here will be returned. Through this, we also ensure predictability of the future settlement, as it must be possible to get a quick start in Norway. It is important that we have a close dialogue with the EU, in particular in processes relating to the revision of the Dublin Agreement, Schengen and other legislation requiring Norway. It is important that Norway plays an active role in the notified changes to the Dublin Agreement on a permanent relocation mechanism, with a view to achieving the most consistent practice of the Dublin acquis. There is no doubt that the Dublin acquis is under strong pressure. Last week I was the party leader in Italy. We were told about the challenges this entails there. In particular, the Dublin Agreement will meet the challenges for neighbouring countries, such as: Greece. Today's situation means that we need to think again also considering the current legislation. The situation that we now have is also demanding for our receiver. More on this pulpit before I have given his witness about it. I would also like to point out that when one has witnessed that the reception apparatus on Tøen has not worked, one must be careful that the reception apparatus will work when we restart it, among other things. of the Council. For the left, it is clear that municipalities play a crucial role in the reception of refugees, in the reception of asylum. But it is also as Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal pointed out: The left has great expectations of the additional proposition that is announced will come. We will therefore await it – and believe that these expectations will be met in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e780	I want to start by saying that I wake up every morning and am deeply grateful to live in a country that people flee to, and not from. This is a serious situation primarily for the warring countries and for the people affected, but it is clear that these are major challenges for us and for other European countries as well. Then I come to my first point of principle: SV is against using aid and development funds to finance refugee measures in Norway – not because it is about ODA authorisation or not, but because of what the Prime Minister said at its inception, namely that what we have to do now, is to ensure that fewer people need to flee. Then we need to increase assistance in those areas that need stability. We also need to increase aid strongly in the neighbourhoods, in the refugee camps, so that the situation there is going to live with, and so that it is those who do not have security, who must get out of those areas – as it is today. That is why today we are going to vote against the cuts that relate to assistance. In the case of return, no batches are against returning those that should not be allowed to stay. The SV has been critical of, is the hysterical target hunt that police alienation says means they have to go on the street and perform general foreign controls to find enough people, instead of focusing on good and safe identification so that we know who's here, and secondly send out the serious criminals who are a threat to this society. This is a wrong priority, says the police. Then I'm a little surprised that the government and the majority don't hear it. So it's not about returning those to be returned, but about how this work is to be done. Point two: This proposal, which came now, was too late. We support what lies there – apart from the cuts in aid – but it is too weak. It's too weak on several points. We've increased the appropriations on some points, but I want to point out in particular the competence of the child, which the Storting has decided it will be in all stages. It must also be present in PU, in the registration. With regard to the quality of receptions for lone minor asylum seekers, it is now possible to send a warning both from municipalities and from state receptions. I'm a mother and I've had teenagers. If not more than one adult is to be responsible for 30 traumatised, long-term adult-free, perhaps being caught on the road in criminal environments – and could be here – and if there are no adults seeing them, someone who wants them well, at least we know who they are. So, dear friend, let's increase the adult density and the pediatric competence of these young people so that they and our society do well, because this is going to go wrong if we don't. There is also a strong need for more than one donor and, in particular, for strengthening the supervisory work of the county councillors – they are responsible for the supervision of the entire protection of children. We have to do something in this area, because we know that there are a lot of people who have been exposed to serious things, and who are at risk of being exposed to new serious things if we don't ensure this better than what we can do now. Finally, faster settlement: Yes, we must have faster settlement, all agree on it. Fast settlement is good integration. Everyone is to be settled, no one can live anywhere other than in a municipality. This is why SV has put forward proposals to this effect, and we will also make new proposals that people have to start working – quickly. It's possible to register people by iris identification, I've tested that sail. You can't cheat with your identity then – at least you can operate with just one. I believe that one of the most important things we can do is give a signal to people who come here that you should live here and be integrated right away, you have to learn language, and you have to work if you can. Now it's like we refuse people who come here to work, and that makes many people sick to sit and wait for a very long time. So getting a new, fast housing system, much better introduction arrangements and opportunities to work fast is what makes us succeed in this difficult task.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e797	I would first like to thank the Committee for the debate we have had so far, but perhaps especially for the fact that the Committee and the Stortninget have helped to deal with this proposition as quickly as the Stortninget has done. It is now eleven days since the opening of the Storting, and today we have several important decisions relating to the handling of the situation we are now facing. The challenge picture is well known, and there are many of the speakers who have contributed to it. But I think both the Prime Minister's statement and the comments after the statement provide a very important framework for the discussion that we have had today. New so-called BGU figures have recently arrived, which are the figures that will be used in future budgetary allocations, where it is now estimated that 23 000 asylum seekers will arrive in Norway in 2015 and approx. 33,000 in 2016. But as we know, this number can change quickly. Now there are about 15 000 people who have applied for asylum in Norway, and I come back to developments in relation to what was previously the situation. Behind these numbers are human creatures to a very great extent, human creatures that affect us all. Perhaps especially so, it is important to cope with the combination with keeping your heart warm and your head cold. About half of those crossing the Schengen borders come from countries where they are likely not to be granted asylum. Nevertheless, this is a person who is putting a heavy burden on our asylum systems in Europe. As a result, people in need of protection simply get a worse offer than they really should have had – if not those who do not need protection, they would have burdened the same systems. Therefore, it is important that Norway has managed over time — especially in the last two years — to maintain a very strong pressure and focus on having an active return policy, as it helps us in Norway to see a trend where there are actually fewer people without the likely right of residence seeking asylum. There's a positive development in that way that we spend less resources on those people who don't need protection, and then get freed to help those who need it. I have recorded that some speakers have also been involved, and it is also mentioned in the setting, that the government should have reacted faster than it did. But in 2014, we had a decrease of about 4 pst in the number of asylum seekers to Norway compared to 2013, and in the first six months of 2015 it continued to develop, only with a further reinforced trend. So there was a pretty big drop in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. This led to the UDI and others working according to the analyses that were available, and built down part of the reception capacity that we had at the time. At the same time, we saw that, over the summer – especially in August and September – an abnormal growth in the number of asylum arrivals to Norway began, and then the public system, with the government at the head, acted very quickly. Rapid coordination meetings were carried out, measures were taken to deal with the situation that was obviously not normal, and the UDI, PU, DSB, municipalities, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and volunteers have made a formidable effort to cope with the situation we have faced. I think it is very good that the Committee also recognises the efforts made by all these actors. The proposition is an overall approach to the challenges that existed at the time the proposition was promoted in the Council of State. Then everyone – and it also appeared during the hearing – knows that the estimates that were available at that time are now different. So you could say that the arrivals are out of date in the proposition that exists. But that doesn't mean that all the figures are out of date, because this money is to be spent within the 2015 budget, and it also appeared in the hearing that there is a difference in the amount of money that needs to be spent over time, and the money that can actually be spent in the current year's budget. But I have to say that I am very pleased with the additional decisions that will be taken to ensure that we get even better financial conditions to deal with the difficult situation that we are actually facing. Finally, I also want to clarify that this is a challenge that Norway is not alone in. It is a challenge we face with large parts of Europe, and it is necessary that we also think of European solutions to gain control of the external borders of Schengen, which are also Norwegian external borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e821	Last week, the municipal committee had a hearing on the refugee situation. What was striking about that hearing was that there were two very different descriptions of reality that were expressed. The Minister of Justice expressed full control of the situation, while the voluntary organisations strongly criticised the government’s management. It was not in agreement with the Minister of Justice's claim that the government reacted quickly and adequately to the situation. In particular, the Red Cross was very clear that it was not recognized in the situation description of the Minister of Justice. Criticisms were promoted against a lack of preparedness, a lack of ability for comprehensive handling, not least in the light of the unworthy conditions we have seen on the Tøjen, where the government came very late. Why do the Minister of Justice and voluntary organizations have so different descriptions of reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e828	That really seems to me to be a pretty good question, because there is no doubt that during periods you have experienced that the situation has been very strained, not least in PU, which has meant that one has had situations from time to time that we would not have experienced in a normal situation. But I think it's very important to recognise that we're not in a normal situation. We have seen arrivals that it was not possible to predict before they actually arrived. We reacted very quickly when that situation arose – we coordinated, and we coordinated. The fact that we have now received a so-called pre-transit reception in a very short time, i.e. an arrival centre on advice to handle up to a thousand people, is an answer to the fact that the locations and handling have not been optimal. It often won't be when situations get very different from what you initially planned for. What then characterises a good organisation is an organisation that has the ability to interact, the ability to use common resources in the best possible way, the ability to find new, constructive and creative solutions – and we have actually done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e833	Then the follow-up question is, what have you learned from what happened on Tøen? In the municipality of South Varanger, the receiver is now under pressure, and Kirkenes has become a bottleneck because of a lack of capacity in the receiver elsewhere. This means that asylum seekers will stay up to a week in transit in a sports hall. This means that the health check procedures are pushed on, and questions are asked whether the UDI has sufficient presence to ensure coordination, logistics, get things on site to work, but also to practice the 48-hour rule and quickly return those who obviously do not have the right to stay in our country. The Minister of Justice has been grateful for the additional proposals made by the opposition, and it is therefore completely incomprehensible that the government parties vote against the proposal of 2 million. additional appropriations for South Varanger and other proposals that might contribute to greater involvement in municipalities and to set up with the necessary capacity. What will the Minister of Justice do specifically to deal with the situation in Kirkenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e844	Now I didn't say that I was necessarily so excited about the opposition proposals. I said that I was enthusiastic about the proposals that will have a majority today, and I think that is important and correct proposals like these. With regard to the situation in South Varanger, it is very demanding, and I largely share the description of reality expressed by the representative. UDI has already sent its own handling team to Sør-Varanger. Civil defence has cooperated with the UDI, it is a close cooperation with the municipality. All of them – including non-governmental organisations – help to make this work as well as possible. Last night, I think, UDI Director Frode Forfang was there himself to see how we are going to solve the difficult situation that is now there. So what's a little bit of a challenge is that this is a situation that we've had a hard time predicting. We see how evolution has progressed. We see what's actually happening now. Then we deal with it according to the procedures that we actually have, to make sure that those who come there get decent reception conditions, that we get a quick return from those who aren't supposed to be here. But it's not that you can turn a button, and then the solution is there. We have to find the solution in common with others. It'll necessarily take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e853	I will also follow up Helga Pedersen's questions regarding South Varanger. In the last few days, there have been major media headlines about the progress in South Varanger, but we, as politicians, have received over many weeks now reports of concern about the situation there, and it has only escalated. On Friday alone, 100 new asylum seekers arrived in Norway via routes from Russia. The capacity of South Varanger is detonated. It's said that the number that gets there now equals 3,000 a day to a municipality like Oslo, if you see it in relation to the population -- 3,000 a day. The main problem is that they remain in transit reception because there is no capacity for transmission to regular reception. The government has focused on the Oslo area, but the situation in South Varanger is much more demanding. I know that the Council of State has been asked to travel north to gain even insight into the situation. What will the Council of State do to remedy the difficult situation in Finnmark? Will he take a trip north to see what it really is like?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e862	I would like to clarify again that a number of measures have been taken to address the situation in South Varanger. These have been implemented according to what we can manage to achieve based on the evolution we have had. It is not that there has been a large reception capacity in South Varanger initially. So there's someone who's had to work, actually from scratch, to make sure that a get reception capacity that handles as much as possible the situation we're in now. So there's still some challenges. There are logistical challenges, and there are challenges to getting people moving from transit to permanent reception. There are challenges in getting a quick return of those who obviously do not have a basis for staying in Norway. All of this is addressed and addressed in the future, in order to find the best possible solution. Then I understand very well that the municipality is under pressure and that the municipality feels this is very difficult. That's why we're dealing with what we know from the state. We are assisting with civil defence, we are assisting with our own capacity from the UDI, we are assisting in absolutely all the areas where we can assist. But it's an abnormal situation, extraordinary measures are necessary, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e871	Yes, there are now reports of a complete burst in the health situation in the municipality. They do not have the capacity to carry out the compulsory health check, and the capacity that is tied up here goes beyond waiting lists to other health services in the municipality. A very simple solution to this would have been that the government parties had voted in favour of our proposal, which we are promoting together with the Workers' Party and SV, i.e. 2 million. NOK in additional appropriations, precisely because the municipality should be able to take some of this away. There is nothing that requires great preparation, but there is an acute situation in the municipality, and the municipality is now forced to take this from its own – and from before very narrow – budget. Why won't the government parties help the municipalities solve this acute situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e880	To that end, I have to say that the government has submitted its proposal based on what the government believes is necessary to resolve the situation we are facing in 2015. The government will come back with a separate additional proposal for the appropriations in this area in 2016. The negotiations in Stortinget I don't think the Council of State should interfere so much from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e888	It might have been interesting to hear a little bit more about why it wasn't possible to discover the very serious refugee situation that spread both in the Mediterranean, in Europe, in Syria and in the neighbourhoods, at an earlier time, and why it wasn't prepared, but I understand that you couldn't see it. That is why I would like to ask for a concrete responsibility here and now. It is about the need for pediatric competence throughout the asylum chain. This applies to both PU, which accepts both the lonely and the families with children, and to receptions for them over 15 years of age. It's clear that there are very many children and young people, very few adults, and that many of these children need adults who have time to talk to them in such a critical phase as this. Is the Council willing to look at these requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e893	Let me first answer this by discovering the refugee situation. Of course, we discovered the refugee situation in Europe, but in 2014 Sweden received 81 000 asylum seekers, Norway received about 12 500. So it really doesn't help much to look at the challenges in Europe to analyse what arrivals we get in Norway. That's the same situation we're in right now. Norway is expected to receive 23 000 asylum seekers in 2015, while Sweden is expected to receive perhaps 100,000. So one has to deal in a way with what is the real framework, not what can be the theoretical framework in advance. But, of course, we have contingency plans to deal with different situations. With regard to the question of looking at child competences, I agree with Andersen's representative in the commitment in this area, and I think it is important that we also look at this, on how it should be organised for the future. So there's no doubt that the resources, with the numbers of arrivals we now see, are also being pressed in this area, but considering how this should be in the future, I think it's natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e902	Not realizing that many more asylum seekers would arrive in Norway at some point during the summer and autumn is well done. That means you didn't want to see it, and you didn't want to take it into account in the budget. I think that is very critical – in addition to the Minister now saying that he has emergency plans. Yes, it turned out when the situation arose, that the emergency plans were not able to handle this at all, because this would have gone completely wrong if there had not been non-governmental organisations that had joined and provided both food, warm clothes and roof over their heads. But I am pleased that the minister is open to assess the requirements of competence and adult density around the lone minors. I am absolutely convinced that it is going to be harder for them to live, but we are also making rice for ourselves if we do not ensure that these young people get good adult contact much faster than what they get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e909	There was probably no question in the last line, but I would like to make it clear that with regard to the basis for what is expected asylum arrival today, it is not a political assessment. It is an assessment made by the Foreign Affairs Estimation Committee, and that is what we are basing the policy measures on. So I think it's a little strange that there's been an impression that there's been a lack of political will to see the possibilities of a larger asylum arrival in Norway than the government actually did. In 2014, as I mentioned in my post, there was a reduction of 4 pst. in asylum arrivals to Norway in relation to 2013. That trend was reinforced in the first half of 2015, and that was because asylum seekers chose different end-stations for their journey than Norway. That's the numbers we have to take into account, not an assessment of what might possibly come up with a change in ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e914	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e917	I want to follow up on the Minister of Justice and really stress that the situation we are facing now is that no one could predict either when the 2015 budget was presented, or when the 2016 budget was made. Everyone who's been in government knows what those procedures are like when you're going to provide a budget, and for what you're doing there. That is why I would also like to thank the Committee for the speed with which this supplementary proposal is being dealt with. We are facing a challenging and very demanding situation, a situation that requires everyone to turn around quickly and cooperate well. And then we're also aware that the numbers we see today are completely different from those we've seen. As of 12 October, it has come about. 460 new children to care centres, which is a number from the directorate. There are more than twice as many who came throughout 2014, when there were 188 new children in total. From January to June this year, an average of five children came per week. In July and August, an average of 16 new children were sent to care centres each week. And since 1 September, we've seen that there are an average of 30 new children coming to the care centers every week. It goes without saying that it's challenging. Buffetat has a statutory responsibility to provide children under the age of 15 who come to the country seeking asylum without parents, or others with parents, with a care centre for lone minor asylum seekers. Buffetat operates four state care centres and also buys space from private suppliers. The high number of arrivals has greatly increased the need for places in care centres, and Bufetat has had to adapt very quickly to meet that need. Private actors, which I would also like to thank, have been given a very rapid number of places, primarily in private institutions. As we now present this supplementary proposal, I would also like to stress that the revised national budget proposed by my department to increase the allocation to care centres by 44 million. kr. The increased need for places in care centres will, of course, require additional resources in 2015, and that is why we are now making a proposal to increase the funding for care centres by 65 million. kr. The housing work will be more demanding with the large numbers of arrivals we see now. I would also like to stress what Andersen's representative had to say, with child-care competence in the receptions for them over 15 years of age. It is important to stress that child protection has a responsibility for all children living in Norway, including children on reception facilities, and we will now clarify the responsibilities of the Child Welfare Service for children on asylum recipients by sending information about this to each municipality. Many strong words are used here, and especially by Andersen – that it is ‘strongly critical’. I want to remind Stortinget that when this government joined, it put more than 5,000 in reception, which had been sitting there for a long time, and which was waiting for a municipality to live in. When a new settlement arrangement is put in place, I wonder why this was not working to get residents who had been accommodated, was intensified during the previous government. We're not going to owe each other, but I just wanted to stress that if we're going to succeed in the integration work, we need to play with the municipalities. It's the municipalities that know what capacity they have, and what they need to be able to get a quick settlement in place. So far, 29 pst have been settled this year. more than last year and 2014 was a historic year of residence. It is a great and good work that has been done in the municipalities. The government has increased the integration grant, we have increased the grant to the House Bank, and we have also asked all municipalities to settle. This has led to the creation of several settlement sites. But it will be demanding in the future. It is important that we look at how we can get them well integrated, get them into education quickly, recognise their skills, get more labour-oriented integration in place, and then we need to establish better cooperation with business and hub and volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e939	Councillor Horne had today, and especially in the debate on the throne, a very committed post, a genuine engagement post, about the importance of settlement in the municipalities and about how important it is for integration. The understanding held by the Council of State Horne has the full support of the Workers' Party. But the Council of State feels that she has the support and support of her own party leader and the no. 2 in the government of this work, which, no matter how many ask, and how many ask, will answer whether she believes that municipalities are still going to say no to accept and settle refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e944	I would like to stress that there are many municipalities, including Progress Party municipalities, which have agreed to settle. But first of all, there's a voluntary settlement line we have in this country, and it's the municipalities that know the capacity and know what's needed to achieve good integration. It's not just about housing and housing. It is also about what needs to be around the individual so that they can use their resources and get to work and education quickly. I have had an important task in this government, and the party program of the Progress Party is also very clear that those who have been legally resident should be integrated into the municipalities. Being a Minister of Integration, I've been living and dying. We have seen historical housing figures in the municipalities, and I feel that I have good support throughout the government for the work I do, including in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e951	I said in my first question to the Council of State Horne that the Workers' Party does not doubt the commitment and authenticity of the contents of the Council of State as to what she thinks is important. But it wouldn't facilitate the work of the Council of State if she were sure of what her own party leader and no. 2 in the government actually thinks, because it raises doubts when the Minister of Finance does not want to answer? I also reported that the Minister of Finance commented on this brief, or she did not comment on it, but said that Norway is a small country, and we should not assume more obligations than what we are able to handle – something she said about it. It's a statement that can hold very much, but at least it doesn't calm me down. I think then that it wouldn't have been easier for the Council of State if she had received a clear answer from her own party leader on how the policy should actually be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e956	It would have facilitated both the work of the government and the Minister for Integration if there had not been more than 5,000 people who came to me on the day I joined and who would be settled in a municipality. As the Council of State, I will always follow up the decisions made here in the Storting. I've been very clear on that all summer and throughout the election campaign, because it's a government council's duty. The government is united behind us doing the work we can to integrate. Then I also want to underline what party leader Siv Jensen was into, and it is that there is a voluntary settlement line we have in this country – only SV has been asked to change the housing model – and then it must be up to each municipality if they want to say yes or no, because it is the municipalities that know what capacity they have, and what they need to put in place a good integration. There are considerable differences among municipalities in their success in integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e964	One last question, which concerns the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party alone, is that one should grant 48 million. to the unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers on reception in order to enhance their child-care and adulthood skills. When we mean it, it is because all organisations and those who work closely against children in child protection have strongly warned that conditions are now unsustainable. We are very sorry that we did not get the government parties, nor the Christian People's Party and the Left, on that very proposal. The signals given to the Council of State are there any other than those that we have received, from both the PU and the receptions, that child-care skills and adulthood are inadequate? Didn't have $48 million. have been good money to prepare the way for the unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers towards integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e969	I am responsible for those children who are under the age of 15 and who are under the care of child protection. What we've been able to get in place are several care centers, and we're giving those children under the age of 15 a good deal of what the situation is today. The plan is that they get that adult density. We've also had to look at the space division, as the representative knows, that more people have to split rooms, but we've also been very clear that the staffing framework that you've now had is stable until further notice. In the case of children in reception of asylum, all municipalities have a responsibility in the area of child protection to provide them with a good offer. We are now making clear the responsibilities of the Child Welfare Service for the children who are on asylum reception, but it is the Minister of Justice who has the constitutional responsibility of those asylum seekers who are over 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e976	As the Council of State probably registered in the committee hearing, the voluntary organisations expressed great surprise that no increased appropriations had been proposed for the municipalities. I share this amazement. After all, it is all the municipalities that have to provide health care and the necessary apparatus for both transit reception and regular refugee reception. A proposal from the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, for increased grants of 50 million. SEK to host municipalities for receipt and SEK 4 million. kr to Council and South Varanger did not receive a majority in committee proceedings. Does the Council of State consider that municipalities should cover their increased costs of setting up new asylum recipients through their regular budgetary framework, or is it the responsibility of the State to contribute to cost recovery?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e983	Municipalities receiving asylum receive a host municipality grant and that grant is intended to cover the average expenditure of municipalities on health care, child protection, interpretation and administration in connection with the provision of reception in the municipality. There are grants managed by the UDI. I would like to stress that with this proposition, the government is promoting proposals for what was necessary at that time to take care of the situation. But the government is very clear that this year we have to get back to the new age. It is also announced an additional proposition where we will address the challenges in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e990	To meet the challenges of housing single minors: the rules on the funding mechanism for child protection measures for single minors were tightened up. The proportion of ownership of the municipality increased and predictability decreased. As we know, a large proportion of those who are now coming, single minors, and it will be incredibly important to have them settled as soon as possible. The municipalities report that they are more sceptical about the settlement of lone minors precisely because of the changes that were made. Now the situation of this influx is very different. Will the Council consider going back to the funding mechanism that is likely to give much greater will and capacity in municipalities to settle single minors?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e995	I am well aware that the settlement of lone minors is a challenge. Some municipalities point in particular to the increase in ownership and the reimbursement system and that is why they do not want to live in this group. We are now working closely with KS to assess alternative devices on the system, but I would like to say that the municipalities will cover 80 pst. the costs of child protection measures for those living in the municipality. In addition, the government has increased the special grant for single minors and the integration grant. The whole pot has increased more than the refund scheme was reduced by. The government is now working on an additional proposition for 2016. I am aware of the challenge of resettlement of minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1004	I think the Council of State is aware that the proposal that SV has put forward on a new settlement scheme was at the hearing when SV put with the Minister in this area, so there is nothing that has come up, and also that it is full expenditure coverage, which is part of that proposal, which will mean that the municipalities actually have the means to do the task that they have to do, and that we who are concerned with good integration look to be done in a better way. But my question is about child protection, because it is the responsibility of the minister, and now there are many more lonely minors. Some have responsibility for the municipalities, others have responsibility for the UDI, but child protection has overall responsibility for everyone. There is then a great need not only to clarify this responsibility with information, as the minister says, but in fact also to equip the municipalities with enough child protection staff to do this task. For these are many children, and that is a great responsibility. So here, there's a need not only to strengthen County, but also to further strengthen municipalities with child protection employees. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1011	Child protection plays an important role when these children are to be settled in municipalities, and the vast majority of children, minors, both under 15 and over 15, are offered a child protection service outside the municipalities. Today the municipalities are covered approx. 80 pst. of the costs of child protection. It is, as I replied to the representative, Mr. Greni, which the government is now looking at, how we can manage to settle those who are lone minors, faster. It's important that we get them settled in the municipalities, that they get their lives started, and it's not in the care centers they're going to be. The government has also increased the grant to municipalities in terms of child protection, but we have to come back again with regard to the concrete costs that this brings. However, it is also important to look at measures taken by the County because they should also supervise. So there's also something you have to look up to in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1018	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1023	First of all, I want to put myself in line with people who want to praise employees in the UDI, PU and elsewhere for the job they've done and do in an incredibly demanding situation that you haven't really been rigged for. Not least I want to praise all the organizations, with the Red Cross at the head, and the unorganized volunteering, such as the Fight Aid and similar initiatives that have emerged in the country, and the job that they have done. It had never gone so well without their efforts, and they deserve a great thank you. That's why it was also – like others – very special to be at the hearing on this matter last week. Special State Council Anundsen's description of reality was in stark contrast to the organizations' reality description of what things are like and how things have been. It worries us. Freedom is an important pillar of the community; it is an important pillar of the welfare society. But in order for that support to be able to stand up, the framework around must be steady, and the government has the responsibility. We also hear today that the organisations are clear that this framework is somewhat vague. Then we need to put in place a better – and robust – registration system, we need to put in place important competence at reception in terms of health, and not least in terms of children’s professional competence and greater adulthood, so that children do not disappear from reception and that children are not taken into a criminal career. Integration starts there. We know that 75 pst. of those who are now in or coming to reception, will stay in Norway. That's why the reception, the stay at the reception, and the fact that they live quickly in the municipalities, the most important thing we can do for good integration, so that they can start their lives in the Norwegian everyday life. That's why it's very special when the government number. 2 will not answer if she still believes that the municipalities should not accept refugees. I hope the Minister of Finance will get on the track and give an answer to that. The government has to take responsibility for the whole. It has been requested by the organisations and more. The Labour Party expects the government to come back with a plan for how to deal with the situation. We have, as Audun Lysbakken said very clearly earlier today, an obligation and moral responsibility to receive the refugees in a worthy and humane way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1034	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a sober presentation earlier today. I also want to commend the efforts of the public and the many volunteers working on this difficult issue. I have been to the beach in Lésvos, seen heaps of life jackets, baths and healthy rubber boats. I have asked some of the approximately 4,000 who boarded the ferry from the port town of Mytilini on Lésvos on 19 September: Where are you going? The answer was: Germany, Scandinavia, Sweden and Norway. That's serious. Europe is changing. Now the refugees come to us in ever greater streams. What should we do? First, I believe that Norway must recognise that we have joint responsibility through our participation in the war in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, and we must be clearer and stronger towards the United States in order to end the war in Syria, and we must be wiser in our approach to Russia. What do we have to do in the vicinity? We need to provide large sums of money to desperate people in flight, so that the UN and international aid organisations can provide a minimum so that people do not have to flee to Europe. I've told you that 10 billion. Norway should be able to afford, not money taken from other aid budgets. What do we have to do in Norway? We must receive people from war and conflict with human warmth, give dignity and provide the naked, secure conditions and give temporary residence to refugees of war. The public must organise reception, registration, checking identification, health and provide sensible work and school. It's going to be demanding, and it has to be done this – I would stress – that those of us in Norway who need society's security most, and who get it too little, don't get hurt. It is so important – racism is also lurking in us. I believe that in the case of the employed refugees, we must think anew. It would be no disadvantage if they could help to operate their own receptions in such a way that a provider makes an effort with the ability to work. It will be a new idea that I think is necessary to assess. The house bank needs increased funds to upgrade private homes that are available. There are nights of houses that are needed, houses that are available, and I would like to say that tent camps are not worth Norway, but then we have to think again about houses that are available. The management at Ringerijk Hospital had conversations with the management of the reception at Ringerijke to receive 850 people who are on the run. The management at Ringerijk Hospital said: "We can handle this – an exemplary conduct from the management of Ringerijk Hospital. They had no security for funding, but the job was to be done, and they were ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1054	In general, the world will be a better place. It is less poor, child mortality is falling, and it is progress in many areas. Nevertheless, we have a historical situation in the sense that there have never been so many refugees. The Prime Minister, in his presentation earlier today, pointed to fundamental political, social, security and economic reasons why migration and the number of refugees are historically high. In the near future, I think we too can add climate change as a cause of migration and migration. If we're going to believe Barack Obama who spoke out in August, it's just the ripples that Europe is now experiencing in terms of pressure to come to the continent. In view of this, I might have been a little more careful than the government representatives in this debate to be so sure that we now have an extraordinary situation. Maybe what we're experiencing now is actually a shift where the migration and the number of refugees will establish themselves at a higher level, and maybe it also challenges our notion of what are refugees, what are asylum seekers, and what are people just looking for a better life for themselves and theirs. Maybe it challenges too. How are we going to meet that challenge? Then I don't think the government has shown so far in the two years it's been running, with an alert escalation of the crisis we're experiencing, that you're ahead of you, considering how to meet these challenges. One of the major challenges we face when thousands more new people come to Norway is just giving them the chance to live their lives on. The Prime Minister said it really well: the dignity that must result from self-sufficiency is important. Or as it is called in the Workers' Party: Work for everyone is job no. one. We are not doing that job well enough in Norway. That is what I think we need to talk about, and I am glad that there is a broad political consensus on that in this Chamber as well. In the Workers' Party, we believe that more people and cultural diversity are, in fact, a fundamental strength of society. We want to contribute to international solidarity, but we have also been aware that municipalities play an important role. That's why we've been committed to strengthening the local economy, and that's why we've also been very concerned that, in the precarious and acute situation we're facing, we need to enable the municipalities to meet the challenges they're facing. When we raised the number of Syrian refugees we are going to welcome in Norway, the Progress Party raised doubts as to whether the Norwegian people were ready for it. The efforts we have seen in the last few months show that the Progress Party is wrong. To take Sulis in Northern Ireland, there were 150 people there last week, a small community of 300 people. On two days' notice, a van came from Bodø with equipment. The progress party was wrong. The Norwegian people will stand up on a duel.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1067	Norway and not least the municipality of Norway are facing a very large task of caring for all the people who are now coming to the country in flight from war and who are going to stay in Norway. Then it's important that you have a fairly common understanding of the problem. As mentioned at the hearing of the Municipal Committee on the matter last week, there was a great gap between the Minister of Justice's opinion, which was strongly in the direction of full control here, and the perception of a number of voluntary organisations. Hearing the Red Cross in that hearing, I must say, made a strong impression, and Red Cross’s representative said as it was, that the government’s handling of the situation has not kept an eye on the matter. Then Norwegian municipalities will accept the refugees. They shall be accommodated and shall be provided, inter alia: medical help. Now we hear from a number of municipalities that there is a great deal of pressure on the services, among other things. health services. KS has focus on this. A number of rapporteurs and local government representatives from the right to the left have addressed this and say that there is a need for a little extra drag. Then I perceive that the government believes that the municipalities do not need it, call it the handshake, as the situation is now in the current year. So the government parties today choose to vote down a proposal to grant 50 million. kr to municipalities receiving asylum. They vote for a proposal to give $4 million. kr in support of South Varanger and advice to the receptions that are now being set up there. In fact, I think that attitude of the government parties is petty, and it is unwise. I hear that representatives from the government parties talk over and over again very nicely about the willingness to intervene and stand-on-will with municipalities and volunteers. That's good. That's what we're going to have. We all agree on that. But when it comes to the problem, you choose not to take action and give the support that these municipalities ask for. That responsibility must be assumed by the government, along with its supporting parties. You can't just talk about the hard work, you should make sure you actually participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1078	There are many aspects of this debate that are directly linked to the debate we had only here in the United Kingdom today, after the Prime Minister's statement. I'm also happy with what the Prime Minister said, and as I think the whole Storting is agreeing to, we can only solve this if the whole community stands up. What we call hard is here a very good, comprehensive and precise word, I would say. This discussion is much about what this practically requires of us. It's an important discussion. But when I take the floor in this debate now, to be told at this stage of development, it is very important that the Storting should also take political and moral leadership in the matter. In addition to giving money, facilitating, arranging and managing, we need to make sure that what is happening now does not contribute to stigmatising the refugees. There must be no conversation at any time in this room – and preferably not in the population either – that has the impression that they are a problem. They're not a problem, they're a result of the war and the misery of poverty in the world. If we as humanistic societies are to get through this in a good way, and in order for historians to write in 50 years that we were in the test, we must also take political and moral leadership. There is nothing in this debate that points in any other direction. Everyone here knows my relationship with the Progress Party. Today I heard carefully what Nesvik said. He said nothing that I could not stop about. I hope that means that we do not get such a debate in Norway that you have in many other countries. Let's hope that, because if we get it, it destroys the possibility of moral leadership and thus effectively manage the situation, also considering what it means for the Norwegian community as such. Finally, I would like to say that you should not start talking about cutting standards – that is what you should not do. You should say, these people are so hard that they should get all the help they can need. Sometimes it's a little too easy to say that we're going to cut to the weakest, but we still have the money to give the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1089	We are facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. There is no doubt that it is the neighbouring countries of Syria that have taken, and still take, the greatest responsibility. In small Lebanon, which is the size of the Rogaland state, every five inhabitants of the country are now a Syrian refugee. It is understandable that many in those refugee camps lose hope and choose to flee further. Nobody takes their kids and sits in a small rubber boat if it's safe on land. The desperation has led more people on their way to Europe, and more and more of them find the way to us. There is an extraordinary situation, and there is every reason to praise employees in the receiving apparatus, who have stretched as far as they could. However, the government must also take lessons from the broad criticism of the lack of preparedness and the ability to adapt to the situation that emerged during the Committee's hearing last week. Luckily, the volunteers have shown their power of action when it has been lacking by the government. Thank you to everyone who has collected clothes and served food, and to all those who now understand that integration is about a two-way process. Thanks to those who sign up as language trainers and folk friends – yes, everything. I think it is worth mentioning that many beautiful ladies in Valdres this weekend brought a whole bunch of boys from the transit reception in Etnedalen on a forest trip, with cocoa and Norwegian training. All refugees may reach the word ‘cosy’. It's worth noting. I am pleased that today’s Storting is correcting some of the obvious shortcomings in the government’s proposal for additional appropriations. In his statement earlier today, the Prime Minister pointed out that the unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are a vulnerable group, which needs care. I fully agree with that. But when we look up from Refstad's transit reception, where there are 300 children and only 5 adults, and when we get serious concerns that there are more and more kids disappearing from reception, it's not good enough. They deserve more care, better follow-up. It's a wise investment for society to make. I see that the media today focuses on what is going to be the cost of what we are now doing, both today and later. It's an honest debate. It's going to cost, but if we do things right now, this is the people who will be resources for their communities tomorrow. Then we have to follow up, think new, stand up and be on the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1104	The debate we have today is now taking place across Europe. The greatest refugee disaster in Europe since World War II has been making great demands on us all, not just this year, but for many years to come. The reality has caught us. This also applies to the Progress Party, which has been most concerned with cutting the budgets of the receiving apparatus in the past. Now the State Councils of the Progress Party will have the greatest responsibility for this – the Minister of Justice is responsible for reception and application processing, the Minister of Inclusion is responsible for housing and integration, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is responsible for ensuring that people come to work and do not end up in lifelong social benefits. The Minister of Finance must stop encouraging municipalities to say no to more refugees and concentrate on finding the money. This applies, as I said, not just to us here in Norway, in fact we have so far not been close to the challenges that Turkey, Greece and Italy have faced, to name, have faced. The refugee situation was the most important issue during the Council of Europe session two weeks ago. In preparation for the debate, the European Parliament delegation went to the Council of Europe on a study trip to Sicilia a week earlier. In advance, we had met in the Federation of Shipowners and received information on the challenges facing Norwegian civil shipping in the Mediterranean. In Italy we met representatives of the Italian authorities, of the UNHCR and of the European Regional Task Force. There was a visit with strong impressions. Most notably, the meeting on board ‘Siem Pilot’ was held in Catania and the visit to the reception centre in Mineo, where more than 2000 asylum seekers were present. It was impressive to see the offer given at this reception. The different nationalities chose their representatives, who participated in the operation. It was a police office that stood for security and registration. It was the health centre, the mother centre, the provision of language courses and other activities and psychological services to the most vulnerable, among others. 25 survivors after a loss where 800 people drowned. We can have a lot to learn from how Italian authorities tackle these challenges. The crew on board the ‘Siem Pilot’ told just as strong stories about how they have saved nearly 7,000 people so far, but also had to pick up almost 50 dead, among all of them families, either drowned or strangled under the deck. It was nice to hear from the Italian authorities what professional jobs the Norwegian teams do. It was quality in all of these terms. It's got to be at home, too. The plural setting from the Committee is a good start, but only a beginning. New Dublin rules, and not least the housing and employment of many more, much faster, are challenges that we have so far just talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1117	First, I would like to say that the Prime Minister's statement was broad and good. The matter we are dealing with now applies in a way to the practical implications of some of the things that the Prime Minister drew up. It has been found in the case that there is disagreement in the instrument. I would like to point out some of the things that the Prime Minister had in mind in his speech. She pointed out that the greatest threat is not the danger of getting IS soldiers to Norway. The greatest threat to the success of this situation is the emergence of far-right groups in Europe. IS soldiers are not exposed to dangerous transport across the Mediterranean. They're flying, and they live here from before. But the right-hand extreme groups already live here. And what do they want? Yes, they will create conflicts, they will create divisions, and they will create insecurity. It's a big task for us as a nation to handle. We need a leadership that speaks with one tongue in order to gather together as a nation in the direction we now have to go, just to avoid experiencing more conflict, greater contradictions and thereby also poorer integration. The Prime Minister has a great task of sitting in the driver’s seat in relation to the type of rhetoric and the type of conversation. I think the Prime Minister is doing a good job, but I think she has a lot of challenges ahead. I would like to make some comments on what has been said here about the fact that it has not been very predictable. I was in the United Nations in 2013. Then Syria was the most important topic on which we were informed. We had a new government. And what did it do? Well, it suggested cutting in emergency aid to the United Nations. The Prime Minister also used Sweden as a argument for tent camps. Sweden has a completely different situation from Norway with regard to the reception of refugees. I therefore believe that that comparison is not correct, and that we have not come as far as Sweden when we are going to find solutions. Is this crisis a short crisis, a situation that will pass? No, it's come to stay, and there's no zero point to return to. We only have a past, and if we do not manage to mitigate the level of conflict in Norway, the future will be more difficult than it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1132	There is a difficult situation for Europe and Norway. But let's never forget that we are not living in the most protected part of the world, facing the most difficult times. It's the world's refugees who do. It's not us who's a victim, it's Syria's people who are. Millions of people are driven into flight in the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. I hear many people say that this is an unexpected situation. But is it really that when millions of people are driven by refugees and hundreds of thousands of people are killed on the border of Europe? Is it unexpected, then, that many seek security? The surprise isn't that they're coming right now. The surprise is that this has not happened before. The world community has failed in Syria, politically in finding a peace solution, humanitarianly in protecting the refugees. We're talking about an acute situation now, but on the ground in Syria, little has changed. But the refugees have drawn closer to ourselves. World society needs to learn from this situation; let's avoid similar situations going this far again. Those who come here have had a long way. They've lived in war, been on a dangerous path. We can only imagine the fear they've lived with, the pain they've experienced on the road, and the most important thing we can say to those who come here is: Welcome, here you are safe. It's great to see the heartwarming people show – children and young people who give of theirs, organizations that set up, businesses that will contribute. The warmth and the will we have to make something that we can take care of. It's not often I quote Angela Merkel, but I'm doing it today, because she said so wisely earlier in the harvest: if we could save the banks, we could save the refugees. In Sweden we see a great humanitarian statesman in Stefan Löfven. But it contrasts with many of our leaders in our own government. For while Europe's leaders were in crisis meetings, the Norwegian people collected money, food and clothing for those who were here, and those who were out, Siv Jensen stood in the square in Ålesund and told the municipalities that they should say no. Storting politician Tybring-Gjedde believed that the pictures from the Mediterranean were propaganda from the media, and the president of the Progress Party in Oslo thought that the boat in the Mediterranean should be used to send the refugees back. It's sad, but not really so surprising, because it's nothing new that the Progress Party says this. What's new is that they're in government. What's also new is that where we used to have a lot of clear right-wing politicians who said clearly against, there are now silent reactions to the Propulsion Party. I hope this debate will now take a new form, because words and attitudes also have a lot to say in politics. That is why many of us from the Labour Party have used this debate to say clearly from. This is what we're going to do. It's not just going to be easy, it's going to be challenges, but we're going to get it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1153	I took note of Mr Kolberg's listening to the representative and the parliamentary leader, Mr Nesvik. But I also listened to Kolberg, and I believe that in the situation we are in now, I record that it can also be done in favour of representatives from Kolberg's own party. I sometimes need to defend my comrades, and I'm going to do that regardless of party color, but I have to say that in the serious situation that we have now, with the government's efforts in the areas that are currently in the process of finding a solution, I think that both rhetoric and politics can be mitigated for the sake of doing things together. I hear that someone is worried that the municipalities are not getting enough to cover their health care. Well, I called the rapporteur in the council and asked: do you have enough money and enough health workers to cover the services you are about to provide at the large emergency reception that will open up to the week – 1000 pieces in total? I don't need anything, he said, UDI has the powers that are needed, and I'm involved in that work, because I can't say that the three-four deputies we have are going to do this job. What we need is that we have the management on it, and that we bring in a number of others that can help. It's impressive, but it wasn't the money that was missing, not the funds – it was getting all these that could make the extra effort. The European Council delegation was on the ‘Siem Pilot’. They create history. Not all the parties stood in that European Council delegation, but we were several parties that were there. That was impressive. They write history in the sense that it is the police who run the defense, the coastguard. There is a own crew on the boat. They have the largest capacity in the area to accept dead people, and together with 28 other vessels and helicopters in the area Norway makes a formidable effort. We were there the day after the government had announced that it would increase the appropriations and they could continue. They were grateful, but we are the ones who should be grateful back. I started yesterday with a meeting at Gallery F 15. I've sometimes been annoyed by the fact that not hedges and lawns and their likes are just as neat, so it shines off that cultural institution. I found a young man from Somalia who had work practices. I boasted of the work he did, and he said that this is just my practice – I want the permanent job, the permanent job; that's what my goal is. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are a number of verbal proposals to the Right and the Progress Party is not involved in this proposition. Why? Well, because it's turning open the doors. The government has announced an additional number, and we are going to mention what is the relocation of the EU mission, and a number of things also within the Dublin agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1168	If I can say something like a partial summary at the end of the debate, I would say that this part of the debate has lacked some of the realistic approach that I seem to have marked the Prime Minister's presentation, with which we began the day. In what we refer to as asylum seekers in Norway, asylum seekers are also included, in fact, who should have their application processed in a first country of arrival. For natural reasons, there are initially relatively few people who have Norway as their first country of arrival. Therefore, it is in Norway’s interest to get a return to the practice of the Dublin Regulation, which we have had a derogation from this autumn. Fortunately, Germany too appears to have realised that the principles of both the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation have to be applied. At the same time, migrants are also included who do not meet the refugee status requirements but who are included in what is called mixed flows. A question should be asked at this stage in the debate on whether the number of migrants who trigger integration demands is as growing as irresistibly as one can get the impression by listening to this debate. I can also give the information that the EU is currently negotiating with Turkey in order to establish the Turkish border as an outer border, a reinforced first line for the Schengen area, of course against benefits to Turkey. It's about setting up places, half a million refugee places, so that you can process applications in order, and people don't feel compelled to take a dangerous and often fatal journey across the Aegean. It's very important. It's maybe here the big numbers and maybe here the greatest humanistic gains are now being prepared. Illegal immigration and illegal residence can lead to increased crime and have security implications in the recipient countries as well. According to the United Nations, trafficking in human beings and human beings is the second most lucrative business in international organised crime, after trafficking in weapons, and is now a prominent element in both international migration and refugee situations. Human trafficking is found along all migration routes, but it is difficult to estimate how much of the migration takes place with the help of such smugglers. Criminal networks serve huge sums in cynical terms to exploit disadvantaged people, and then it is very important that we keep a realism in our own debate, so that we do not support that traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1177	It is strange to hear the criticisms of parties that have contributed to the fact that we have had a great influx of asylum seekers – that they are the most critical of why we cannot solve things overnight. The representative of the Zenterpartie Greni was very sceptical about how we organise asylum receptions in Norway, among others. by building them down when there is no need for them, and we create places when there is a need for them. What is the option for the Central Party – that we should have tens of thousands of permanent places on asylum-seekers whether they are needed or not? We have also heard a representative from the Central Party who believes that we must have a free house. Last week there were 2 000 asylum seekers. If the same number of people arrive every week, we will receive 104 000 asylum seekers in one year. Do we need housing for 104 000 people available and ready immediately? Secondly, the criticism is that this has not been foreseen and that it should be done. It is a completely unreasonable criticism to take into account the following facts: In 2014, Europe had an increase in the number of asylum seekers at 44 p.m. In Norway, we had a decrease of 4 pst. Asylum rates in Norway decreased by 4 pst. at a time when the rest of Europe had dramatic growth. This turned around when it came to the totally unaccountable, irresponsible decision to accept 8 000 Syrian refugees. The Socialist Left Party, which is sorry that it did not become 10,000, can at least comfort itself that as it is now, there will be a few hundred thousand through family reunification only in the next few years. So there should not be a shortage of people coming – if that is the biggest concern you have. As far as integration is concerned, no one has asked to answer this question: how do you imagine that work permits for people who have just arrived should have immediate effect when we know that among the largest refugee groups in Norway, Somalis, Iraqis and Afghans, even a very small proportion of them with Norwegian citizenship at work? How realistic is it to think that you can integrate hundreds of thousands of people in a short time when you know that even people who have been here for decades are struggling to become part of Norwegian society? When wars, disasters and distress affect fellow humans, I think we need to be realistic, and then we need to help so that we can help as much as possible. Then it's not just useful to think that if you go away from all the conventions, all the rules and just have open borders, it's going to solve itself because we have a will for it. You also have to have some realism in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1192	Today's debate has, on its own, highlighted what we all really know, that it is going to require a lot of many in time to come. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you of the following: it is easy to underestimate the power and significance of how we accept vulnerable and vulnerable people, and that we should do it in a good and heartwarming way. An acquaintance of mine and her family came from Bosnia in the 1990s. They were met the following way, as many are met: by a policeman who looked at their papers. He looked at them, he smiled, and then he said: Welcome to Norway! That moment has become entrenched in this family's consciousness that was very nice and warm, which represented the Norwegian community. And when they came and were about to catch on heavy weekdays, it gave them strength. I think we're going to have that with us, that co-humanity and a smile are actually free. This is about attitudes and we need to show good attitudes to all those who are coming. That being said, the challenges are many, but it's a field that I think needs more attention, and that can be scary to downgrade, and that's what's about education. For education, the bridge is a life of personal income, independence, networking, social interaction with others, language, self-realization and self-respect. A good part of those who come have a profession and a training with them in the suitcase. They know a profession, and they have an education to build on. Others don't. In any case, that competence must be identified and it must not be de-prioritized. Because if we do that, it will punish itself in the longer term. Then we will not succeed in integrating. And once we've figured out what people can and will learn and develop, we'll have to fill up with credits, high school, primary school for those who need it -- then make them able to earn their own money and live their own lives in this new society. Unfortunately, I think that the Norwegian debate and measures have too little focus on that, and I think we all have to take over and remember not to down priorities, so that those who come and who are going to be here for a while – maybe they're going to be here for the rest of their lives – get a place to live and get something to do that makes them feel like life. It is part of the story that parts of this family from Bosnia travelled back again when there had been peace. Some stayed, married to the Norwegians and settled here, and that's probably how it's going to go with many of them as we see refugees to Norway this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1208	First of all, Mr Tetzschner, it seems that he has not been told that the government has agreed to take part in the European work of resettlement of many of the refugees who have entered the Dublin area, and that is because the entire Dublin system collapses when the beneficiary countries stop stamping passports and people just travel. It warned SV against last fall, because it was obviously hard to bring with it then, and it has been hard to bring with it now, too, that you are doing this. In order not to break down the system, there is a need to show some solidarity with those who bear the greatest burdens. It has been possible to predict this. It was just taking a little look outside our borders and seeing that this had to come sooner or later, and that criticism will stand. Now I hope we move on. Our proposal for a new settlement arrangement is about thinking new. We saw that when we were in the government; we sent this proposal to the hearing. And it's about that this isn't a problem that goes over, or that's voluntary. One cannot live anywhere other than in a municipality in Norway, and if one has been legally resident by the State, one should be given the opportunity to move quickly and start integrating. The government's propositions are full of these sentences: Fast settlement is good integration. Fast settlement is good integration. Yes, it is! It is incredibly important that we get started, that all municipalities build competence on this, that we do not have discussions on, but on how, and that we strengthen integration work quickly now, because it is possible to do this better, and we need to do it better. That's why I'm also very concerned when the government now – and also the Left and Christian People's Party – is discussing whether to have those who get to stay in Norway, too, to sit on hold for five years. Many have been up here and described the situation in which the refugees are – what they have had to put behind them, what they have lost. They come to a society they may never even have heard of. And then we want to say, Welcome here! Start language training and integration, because if you're going to make it in this community, you have to do it. If these people are going to wait five years to know if the government might have been going to throw them out again... I think most of the people who come will go home if there's peace fast, no one wants anything more than that. It takes a long time, they have to be allowed to establish themselves in a society. Their kids are going to be Norwegian. We have to do everything we can to make them integrated and do well in society and contribute to it. If they have this broadcast ghost hanging over them, I am quite convinced that it is going to go much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1223	I have been sitting and listening to the debate this morning, and I would like to start by saying that I think the debate has in essence been marked by the seriousness and future nature of the situation that this situation requires. There is a difficult situation to deal with, and there is a situation that requires political cooperation in the Grand Duchy, which requires cooperation across both levels of government and institutions and also with civil society and non-governmental organisations. It is important that we now manage to deal with the situation today, but that we also look forward – for three years, five years and maybe ten years. That means we have to think of housing, integration, and as Marianne Aasen also stressed: education is an important part of this work. In the residential area, much is done. We have raised the number of rentals to which grants are granted, from 1000 in 2013 to 1700 this year. But as it was also stressed in the consultation committee, the House Bank has a number of other grants that must also be used in the current situation. We need to use the private market through housing support, mortgages and housing grants, which together constitute powerful grants, and which can help to remedy the situation that we are today and that we will be in the future. There is a willingness on the part of municipalities to settle, and it is important that we also have instruments to enable municipalities to deal with this situation. It is – as emphasised by the House Bank – flexibility in the legislation, which allows some of the wishes of the municipalities to be able to rehabilitate and repair dwellings for those to be settled in the municipality. Then I would also like to refer to an important meeting of the State Council of Solvency Horne, the Minister of Culture and I had with the volunteer organizations at national level. There is a significant willingness and ability of voluntary organisations to set up, and we have now encouraged municipalities to have similar meetings and to have good cooperation between municipalities and voluntary organisations. It would be a good way into further integration. So finally, there have also been questions about the local economy. In our opinion, the grants are satisfactory and capture the situation we are in, namely the host municipality grant and the integration grant and the municipal income system. We believe these grants are satisfactory for catching up, but it is clear that we are following up the situation to see how it develops also for the municipalities and the host municipalities that have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1236	The representative Keshvari wondered if the centre party would have a whole pile of received standing empty in case someone needed a reception space. That's not what the Center Party means. But we believe that we should consider today's reception system, and we believe that we should look at the Norwegian People's Aid proposal, because they say that it is so unpredictable that they are assessing their operation. One of their proposals, which I think we should carefully consider, is to establish a strain of long-term agreements that ensure stability, and that it is primarily the short-term agreements that are to enter into this form of tender. It is a challenge today for municipalities to build an apparatus around these receptions — health care, school, kindergarten, language training, etc. And then there's short contracts. Suddenly there is another municipality that gets the offer, and then the whole system is moved to another municipality. It is not predictable enough, and it makes it necessary to build up an ever-new environment of competence. We have to look at another system. Yes, the Central Party is in charge of looking at the alternative use of dwellings, and I perceive that the Prime Minister today did exactly the same thing. She even went as far as to mention tent camp. So far, the Center Party is not willing to go, but we have to look at the possibility of using existing housing stock that might not be up to today's standard, but that might be adaptable by simple means. I think we should assess whether the House Bank's arrangements today are sufficient – there are good enough arrangements – and provide grants to private individuals who will rehabilitate, for example. cottages, small farms, etc. which may have been unoccupied for a while, but which can be made possible by simple means until they can be used for dwellings. We're not going to have four on health requirements or fire technical requirements, but we're probably going to have to four on the requirement for the year's interior color on the walls and the year's interior otherwise. We also need to look at the possibility of setting up a support scheme for closed schools, closed hospitals, care centres, perhaps unused morgues, etc. may be placed in a proper fire and health condition so that they can be used for dwellings for a shorter or longer period. I believe it is important that we put this in place, and I believe that there is a lot of unused housing that we can use, if we just make sure that we have support schemes that make people willing to make the necessary investments so that this can be used as rental homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1247	This debate has revealed that many things we agree on, fortunately, but here are still some central disagreements. It was Ingerd Schou who made me take the floor, because she justified the lack of connection to the proposal for more money to the municipalities that in no way you have everything you need. It may be, but it does not apply to South Varanger, which is also the subject of the proposal. There is a queue for health checks, and the municipality does not have the capacity to follow the procedures for receiving the refugees. They don't have what they need. I also point out that the President-in-Office of the Progressive Party in Alta has already, before he has received the request, refused to establish transit receptions in Alta to relieve South Varanger, with the general reason: the municipality will not tolerate receiving the refugees. There is different enthusiasm around the municipalities to establish reception and residence. Most of the places are fortunately big and increasing commitment to this, but in some places it is unfortunately also absent. Whatever the starting point of the municipalities, it is very important that the additional costs of the municipalities are covered, and it would be very important to agree to our proposal to support the host municipalities now, because it is quite factually right where we are now, but also because it would be a very important signal to the municipalities that when you do the job you have to do, the bulk of the population will support the important work you do. The representative Tetzschner thought that many of the contributions today lacked realism — in immigration policy, I understood. From the Labour Party's side, I just want to be very careful to make it clear that we are going to stick to the foundations of immigration policy. We're going to give protection to those who have a right to it, and those who don't have a right to protection, get a refusal and have to leave the country. The Dublin Agreement is under great pressure. The Prime Minister said in his statement that Norway should be active, but she did not say anything more specific about what it meant. Here I would like to point out that, on the part of the European Commission, initiatives have been taken to establish a permanent relocation mechanism as part of the Dublin Agreement. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister of Justice deals with it, how to evaluate it today, and how to follow that initiative from the Norwegian side towards the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1260	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1263	The challenges facing the representative, Helga Pedersen, show that there is a correlation between the number of people receiving and the capacity to do so. The Central Party representative mentioned a number of things you can do in the short term: use unused schools, premises, etc., but how many years can you do that? How long can you do this before you have to do the grips that the EU has outlined and that the Labour Party representative was involved in? It is also quite similar to the proposal I made at our national meeting, which everyone slaughtered and thought it was totally unheard of to set up a larger reception centre, so that people could apply for asylum there in order to get refugee status. Secondly, European countries and other countries could accept what they had the capacity to do. Many of the challenges we face in this area are that you can't have room for 10 guests and get a hundred. Then it becomes uncomfortable for the ten you originally had space for, for the host and for the ninety that are left over. That is in many ways what we are witnessing in Europe today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1268	It's actually a comment for both Keshvari and Tetzschner. Tetzschner requested, among others. that we should go back to the original Dublin agreements. Then I just want to remember one thing, because very often we treat important things here in the hall that go completely into the forgetbook afterwards. Int. 327 S for 2009–2010, which was the Meld option. St. 9 for 2009-2010 on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective, which was discussed here in the Chamber on 8 June 2010, said, with the support of the Right and the Progress Party, the following: ‘The Committee has also noted that work is under way within the EU in order to revise the Dublin provisions, in order to ensure a fairer distribution of responsibilities within the EU and Schengen area than today, where countries in the south-east border of the territory feel that they have to take responsibility for a disproportionate proportion of asylum seekers.’ Furthermore, the Committee, acting unanimously, including the Right and the Advance Party, states: ‘The Committee supports the Norwegian authorities’ contribution to this work, inter alia through the External Borders Fund, and by contributing to the decommissioning of the southern European countries.’ I think we should take care of the good things we've done, and not start over again every time. We've all agreed on this has been good, and then I don't think we should start reversing it in the situation we're in now, because that's now we really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1285	The last post, from the representative Christoffersen, pleased me, because I am a great follower of Meld. St. 9 for 2009-2010. For those who are interested in studying the Workers' Party's changed positions in refugee policy, it is precisely that big message that should be brought forward, because there is a completely different rhetoric that is used today. It is precisely this which is now the main priority of the EU that they have tried, particularly in Germany, to suspend a very practical system, namely the Dublin system, which supports Schengen cooperation. Why is Schengen cooperation so important? It is because, if you have a common border policy and a common enforcement policy and those who apply for asylum, you can clarify where they can apply for asylum and have it treated only one place, just do what the representative Christoffersen had to do, that is to say, make a burden-sharing, which means that it is not just the states in the context of migration that need to take the pressure. Schengen is not worth letting the death bells tickle, as the representative Karin Andersen did in a previous speech. That is precisely what is now the task in Europe, and I am convinced – not only perhaps – that I will also be able to ease the pressure against the Norwegian Asylum Institute once again to discuss how to update both Schengen and Dublin agreements to the new realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1294	Let me first thank you for a very good debate. I think that has been essentially a very tidy, factual and liberal debate, where everyone has recognised the need to resolve the situation we are in. I want to comment on a few things. One question from Helga Pedersen I come back to. However, Karin Andersen looked at the government's proposal to extend the time before a permanent stay, from three to five years as a problem. I have to say, I don't think it's a problem. I think it's a follow-up to what the asylum institution really is. The institution of asylum is based on a temporary protection scheme. It should only be lacking that one did not follow up on what is the starting point for temporary protection, should the need for protection fall away. That is also the case today. Although it has not been practised, the possibility is there, within the three-year framework that exists today. The representative Pedersen asked questions about the Commission’s proposal for permanent relocalisation. It's a big and in many ways very difficult question. It was promoted during the Council meetings earlier — i.e. two and three weeks ago — and was first part of the draft, but was subsequently removed from the draft during the Council of Ministers' proceedings, focusing on the temporary one-off solution with the relocalisation of the 120 000, as well as the 40 000 previously relocated. There are some prerequisites for a future relocalisation. The first is that one must have control of the external borders of Schengen – one must know who comes within the external borders of Schengen. I perceived a very strong commitment to it in the EU. The second is that in this way one must also be able to have a well-functioning Dublin agreement. The Commission's proposal is that a review of the Dublin Agreement involve permanent relocation into a future Dublin scheme. It is a matter that the government will closely monitor and contribute to the discussions when they develop in the EU, but for the time being the Commission’s proposals have not been followed up in the dialogue and discussion that has been so far. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the Turkey initiative, to have safe ports in Turkey to which you can return people, and to have a system where the EU takes asylum seekers to the EU area from there. It is an initiative such as: have been taken by the Netherlands, as part of the follow-up dialogue that the EU will now have, including: with Turkey. I think it's a bit of a road there, but the fact that the EU now believes that getting such a solution is something we're going to discuss with Turkey, I think, overall, is a contribution to the fact that one can also get better control over the external borders of Schengen, a better functioning Dublin agreement and better control over migration that is not related to protection needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1309	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1312	The situation is now screaming for solidarity both with refugees and between European countries. Therefore, it is wrong when the representative Tetzschner says that SV has been asked to do so, to cancel these agreements. On the contrary, we discussed exactly what the representative Christoffersen said up here, which I thought was an agreement on last year, but which was voted down, namely that we have to take some initiative so that the Dublin agreement does not collapse because the countries stop stamping the passports. It's a reality that it happens. It's a will to misunderstand that's completely out of mind. Furthermore, SV is for the protection of refugees and for good integration. If you stay here, we have to make sure that those who stay are 100 pst. is set to integrate. Then such a five-year rule is harmful to it. That's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1320	The debate is coming to an end, and I would just like to conclude by thanking all those who were at the hearing, but above all thanking all those who are doing the work outside and at home. This debate shows that we are in good shape by the end of October, when the additional number from the government has been notified. The debate will probably take place in November. This debate is important because it has taken up what I just call the glitch between the state budget and what has happened since – and that is going to happen since the year – so that we provide financial resources in view of those who are going to deal with this in the municipalities and elsewhere. An even more important debate, which I hear we have already begun, will therefore be held in November. Then I hope – and I have good reason to believe – that we are all concerned with finding good solutions. I hope this won't be a discussion about who's nicest, because it has another side as well. It is in the field of justice, and in particular we met it when we visited the Siem Pilot at Sicilia and otherwise in contact with those who participate in Frontex, but also here at home: among all those who have this need for protection, there are many who obviously do not need protection, and there are also some who hide with completely different purposes than building a new life. That part, which concerns the capacity of both the police, the Kripos, the PST and the judiciary, is also an area we have to pay attention to in this matter. I fully agree that this proposition also has an increase to the House Bank. The increase has already come, and it is further increasing. But I dare remind you that even though I have great love for a brewery, empty chaplains and their alike, the capacity is limited. And there's something about the time aspect here. I realized by making door knocks on campsites, a little unsavory, that the tent is no longer tented. So the time aspect is also important when we look at the ability to build capacity with competence and quality. We have to be willing in a way to discuss all the instruments, so that we are able to accept and give a proper stay to those who need it. I hope that the future and the debate will bring, that we are also open and flexible to find solutions based on the Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1331	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e1337	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e6873	Here the President will draw attention to a writing error under D in the recommendation. It shall read ‘the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence’ and not ‘the Committee on Foreign Affairs’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e6884	Case No. 4 was the Prime Minister's statement, which was attached to the Minutes after the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e6891	In the course of the debate, Mr Pedersen presented two proposals, namely proposals Nos. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The government is asked by the government to investigate and submit to the Stortinget proposals for schemes that reduce the financial risk to municipalities if a refugee does not take up activity as foreseen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e6908	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner490Foreign Directorate,60Contribution to host municipalities for asylum recipients, increased by 50 000 000571Room transfers to the municipal sector, etc.65Contribution to host municipalities for arrival reception, granted by 4 000 000’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7586	It is votted over I, chapters from 151 to and including 166. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7601	It's going to be over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7611	It's said to be over III and V. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The vote boards showed that there were 55 votes in favour and 50 against the vote on III and V. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.11.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7622	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7627	Then the number of votes is 54 votes in favour and 51 votes against. Thus, the Committee's position is III and V biphasic. It shall be added to II, IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-13.ana.ud2019e7694	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
