ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e67	A number of permit applications are available. From the representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Svein Roald Hansen, Tor André Johnsen, Sveinung Rotevatn, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and Marianne Aasen on leave from 17 November to 19 November to take part in the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor Hedmark County: Rangdi Krogstad and Hege JensenFor Rogaland County: Marie Liones BreekFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunhild Berge StangFor Østfold County: Wenche Olsen. The Central Party Deposit Group has requested that the granted convocation of other alternates of the State of Oppland, Gunnar Kaus, in days 17-18. on November under the leave of the representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, shall be extended from 16 November to 18 November. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will state that the meeting is continuing, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e142	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e151	Today, we are discussing the Communication The Future Primary Health Service – proximity and wholeness, which in some areas can be seen as a follow-up and improvement of the Cooperation Reform. The Committee has consulted the matter, and we have experienced a great and good commitment around the theme and device of the notification. The Committee did a good job at the beginning of its work. It was a little hard to get who was for what, and who was for what. Some parties have been along the way both for and against some parts of the message, but we have worked well and constructively together. Some areas are all parties concerned about and agree on, and I feel that there has been a great deal of willingness to find agreed text that clearly shows where we stand together. I believe that the product we are debating today gives a good picture of where the different parties stand and where the dividing lines go. Given the important work to be done in municipalities with the different challenges, illnesses and injuries of individuals, it is good to note that we are united on the main challenges and many of the responses and solutions of the communication. In addition, the Committee has allowed itself to make the notification even better by adding some elements for which a majority is currently being set up. The individual batches themselves will explain their considerations. The government’s political platform clearly reflects the political will to improve municipal health and care services. Municipal services are important and, in the years to come, are becoming increasingly important to meet the overall challenges and needs of the population for health and care services. The healthcare service of the future should be the patient and the service of the user, where the general rule is that no decisions about me as a patient should be made without me. Users shall be given greater influence over their own daily lives through more freedom of choice. This shall apply to those with good health in need of simple consultation, to those with chronic diseases and the need for more follow-up over time, as well as to those with complex needs and impaired functioning in need of specially organised services. The main steps taken are: multi-disciplinary teams, increased skills and enhanced leadership. Co-location of several municipal health and care services is a good starting point for innovation, professional development and new forms of cooperation, both within the municipality and between municipalities and the specialist health service. Users and relatives have been involved in the preparation of the message because they are in invaluable experience. Although professionally high skills and good management are essential for providing safe and good services, we do not escape the personal experience that someone sees the offer as bad. Feedback from users and relatives was quite clear and unambiguous, and this has therefore been given considerable space in the notification. In addition, all health policies promoted by the government or under work have been developed in close cooperation with users and relatives. We recognize that relatives are important resource people, who are going to hear their voice. At the same time, we recognize that some relatives themselves get sick because we have not recognized the stress and grief they often suffer. That the relatives now have such a great place in the government's work, I believe is both important and correct. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we must not forget the other side of this, namely the fact that no one has any relatives and therefore needs additional assistance and follow-up to the public. In practice, it will be a management responsibility to ensure that employees receive training so that they can also benefit from the resource represented by active users and by relatives. In the wake of the Interaction Reform, many municipalities have chosen to co-locate their services to a greater extent and have gained good experience with this. With this communication, the government wants to take a step forward by introducing two types of teams: primary health teams responsible for basic health care for the whole population, and follow-up teams for those with the most complex needs. Primary health teams will facilitate prevention, pro-activity and self-esteem. Follow-up teams will focus on groups that will need in particular a coordinator, knowledge-based procedures and checklists, individual level and systematic follow-up. The idea is to establish multi-disciplinary outpatient teams where both the specialist health service and the municipal health and care service work together. I think it's more than me who's seen what it does to people when they're exposed to disease or damage that takes away from them their accustomed life. Even I've been following a close friend for years, and I've seen that the disease still takes away her more and more of her independence. It creates sorrow, frustration, and anxiety. I am convinced that just knowing that someone is there and is following developments, organizing along the way, giving advice or is there for the little conversation, would mean that at least not so much anxiety or getting the new tools too late. I have also seen that when one family member has a serious illness, it affects the entire family. The party of progress has always been concerned with individuals. That's why this team thinking is so right for us. When some lots have been more involved with groups, the Progress Party has repeatedly seen that offers have been made, but what has been given has not worked. This is the waste of resources and the destruction of the individual. Team, coordinator, individual level, competence and user involvement will provide new opportunities for individuals. This is good news for those who are struggling. It is worth noting that when the previous government introduced the Cooperation Reform, which had a lot more impact and impact on municipalities, there was no need to have pilot projects. All municipalities were to find their own way, and the same mistakes were made in many places. Now, when a separate communication is promoted that outlines all the challenges that arose at the time, with proposals for solutions to these challenges, yes, these parties will have pilot projects – and this despite the fact that pilot projects are opposed to state funding of municipal health and care services. I also note that the SV and the Zenterpartie have such doubts about their own policy that they now believe that the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print should be removed. This is not a majority for in the Stortinget today. It is good to note that the red-green parties have concluded that the municipalities have received sufficient funds to provide good health and care services and therefore do not need State resources. Whether you become part of state-funded or municipally funded care services, we have received numerous feedback over the years that both legislation and funding models are in the way of optimal organisation and multidisciplinary approach. It is therefore important that the government now initiate this work with a view to simplification, improvement and renewal. Although the Central Party and the Left Party believe that any proposal for change is about something else, I can assure you that this is about focusing on patients and responding to the input that has come from the obstacles that exist. As previously mentioned, the notification has a specific focus on competence and management that is well described in the notification. I choose not to go into all of these measures separately, except to say that I perceive that there is a great deal of consensus that the time since the introduction of the reform, when municipalities were given responsibility for even more sick and fragile people, has shown us that competence was lacking in most municipalities, and it is still lacking today. Increased competence is about meeting today and not least about meeting the next days, months and years. During the Committee's trips to Norway, we have repeatedly been informed that it is easier to get many applicants to take up vacancies now than before. It is clear that more and more people are discovering that working in the community health service offers development, challenges and varying opportunities. The Government has therefore committed itself to providing support schemes which provide good opportunities for continuing training. Although the cooperation reform in its time brought together the political parties in several areas, it was not unanimously adopted. The Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party voted among others. against making the law on municipal health and care services professionally neutral. At a time when the municipalities were to get even more responsibility for even healthier people, we thought it was completely wrong to send a signal to the municipalities that competence should not be highlighted or imposed. Therefore, the requirement for some professionals is now reintroduced. There are proposals for the reintroduction of the professions that were originally in the law, with a 2020 supplement on municipal psychologist. A majority of the Committee also supports proposals that municipalities should have access to ergoterapeut, including this from 2020. Since 1995, when John Alvheim has been at the forefront, the Progress Party has highlighted the importance of the competences of ergot therapists, not least in terms of being able to live at home for as long as possible, but also in terms of prevention, mastering, organisation and welfare technologies. It is time for the municipalities to get their eyes up on the value of having access to an ergot therapist. In addition, a majority are asking for a diabetes plan as well as a review of the legislation on referrals and the use of audiographs, with a view to simplifying and improving resource use. Some of the parties have been concerned that we are now considering opening up direct access to physiotherapy, and that this could lead to poorer access for those who need it the most. Norwegian Physiotherapeutic association shows in this context that this is wrong with other countries. Such a device has been shown to save other parts of the health budget, and it has made it easier for physiotherapists to give priority to those who need it the most. Today’s arrangement does not allow such a priority to be made. For the Progress Party, the words ‘simplify’, ‘renew’ and ‘improve’ are with us in everything we do. Therefore, the Progress Party supports such an assessment. The Committee has also been involved in maternity and midwifery care in the municipalities. The balance between local self-government and national impositions and designation is demanding. Strong signals from pouring and government reach the municipalities, but it is too slow. This applies in most areas. All parties criticize the municipalities and promote a number of proposals to control them and lock them. But a trial plan that answers all the criticisms, they don't want. So it's sometimes hard to understand what some parties actually want. However, the Committee has agreed to make a proposal asking the government to ensure that electronic health cards for pregnant women are in place. Health centres and school health services have been given considerable space during the treatment of the notification. Although the red-greens have not even earmarked the means for this, they now believe that ringing is correct. I could accept a ringing if this was done from day one, as the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to do in the case of psychologists. We went right in there and gave grants to stimulate. But the Progress Party does not want to premiere those who have not followed up clear calls from the big business and government, and thus punish those who actually took our signals. It is also very unwise to send such signals to the municipalities. They'll soon realize that if they just sit still, they'll be rewarded eventually. If we still earmarked funds for the health care care service now, I would designate it to the municipalities that had been nice. Good municipalities are to be rewarded, not punished. But it's clear that when we read about municipalities like, for example, working party owned Trondheim, which now receives 20 million. kr extra for health centres and intensive care, and they propose to use less than 5 million. I think you might understand better why the red-green parts need to be detailed. Finally, I would like to comment on the total lack of red-greens to want to equalise addicts and mentally ill with other patients. The working party is going the farthest. They write in their comments that they do not want the addicts to be the next group to be given priority, and this despite the fact that these were not prioritised over the previous eight years and despite the fact that the Workers' Party knows that a escalating plan for the drug field is right around the corner. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are opposed to anything suggested by strengthening the addicts. Before the summer they went against them choosing where to get their drug treatment, now they also oppose that these should be given immediate help in their own municipality on the same line as everyone else in their municipality. And finally, they oppose that the municipality will be responsible for them after printing. When we know that the majority is able to become drug free, but that it is in the new non-drug day that is missing, and when we know that this is because of the lack of post-protection in the municipalities, it is alarming that these three parties want to continue the obvious weakness of today's system. Fortunately, there is a broad civil consensus that it is the addicts who are now to be given priority. We have already strengthened their rights in several areas. The golden rule has been reintroduced, and the number of people in treatment queues continues to go down, as do waiting times. We have also reintroduced earmarked funds to the municipalities. Primary health teams, or follow-up teams, will provide a number of improvements to their daily lives and success for those who are struggling with addiction or mental distress, and all patients in the municipalities will have equal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e200	Primary health services and specialist health services are about the same size, at least in budget terms, but they are very different when it comes to attention. We also see that today – it is completely empty here. It's municipal health that matters most to people's health. That's where we have most chroniclers and older people. It is where early intervention is most important — seeing health in conjunction with all the other responsibilities that municipalities have, seeing the relationship to work, housing and opportunities to engage in prevention. It is quite right that users give clear feedback that they lack a more holistic healthcare system and that they become more involved in their own treatment. Among these, there are a lot of people who feel that they are getting little in the public health debate, and especially by us politicians. Drug addicts and the growing proportion of those with mental disorders experience that they have become more seen in recent times, and that is good, but we also have many chroniclers, many immigrants with special diabetes challenges, many with hearing and vision challenges, many children and young people who would have a completely different school day if they had been caught up in the past, many who have been subjected to violence and abuse, prisoners in prisons, who have a high incidence of health and living conditions challenges — and now also health care for all in receptions. The community health service is characterised by fragmentation, poor ICT systems, lack of systematic information about the disease picture in the population, and there is a very great need for more competence and management. The working party has therefore looked forward to the primary health message. There is a lot of good in the message, but there are also some defects. Social inequality in health is a topic that we think should have been addressed more clearly, because we know that it is the broad measures that have the greatest impact. We also note that two thirds of the tasks referred to in the notification must be assessed or further investigated. The working party believes it is professionally unwise to experiment with the district psychiatric centers. Once we've finally managed to build a professionally good offer, we don't think it's time to experiment with it. The same applies to dental health — we believe that we have an organisation in Norway today that provides good dental health, and that it is also not right to change it. Internationally, Norway scores well on availability in the evening, a high proportion of fixed doctors and overall high levels of satisfaction with the health service, but we are below average in the quality measurement and generation of electronic patient records to gain population knowledge, and we are failing in fragmented management, and that decision-makers are poorly integrated into other services. So we think it's a little strange that the decision-makers didn't get any more attention, especially linked to it with the team, because it's also important there to address who has the primary responsibility. The working party believes that there is a need for a more interdisciplinary, effective and accessible primary health service, which is based on the medical expertise of the fixed doctors and good knowledge of the patient. Continuity is particularly sought by chroniclers, multi-sick and elderly people. We believe that the decision-makers must have a central role in developing dynamic teams based on the patient’s needs. It should be a goal to further develop what works. The stipulation is successful. Individual plane and coordinator work for those who have it. The Workers' Party believes that decision-makers should be given greater responsibility for developing an individual plan in cooperation with patients, for those who need it. We also believe that this was the intention when the fixed medical system was established. Having control and knowing when something happens, and what happens, with one's health giving mastery, and we also believe that it's health-promoting. Individual patient group guidance should be developed, such as chroniclers, drug addicts, multi-sickness, dementia and patients in need of rehabilitation or rehabilitation. Many young people are uncertain about the use of family responsibilities. Young people are at a vulnerable age, and we therefore find it a little strange that we did not receive support for the proposal to provide information to all 16-year-olds on the content of the fixed medical system, how to obtain it, the obligation of confidentiality and that one also has the option of choosing his or her own permanent staff. Team organisation is nothing new. We have it especially in home-based services, and it works very well. It's important that we build on what works. We have many municipalities that have established palliative teams, psychiatry teams and other teams they see they have special target groups for in their population. But at the same time, we see that they need closer contact with doctors and better review of medicines, so there are also opportunities for development. What we're amazed at is that Nav doesn't have a place in the teams. Too many sick people are exactly that relationship important, for those who are out of work, it means a lot to get to work. And then we have Nav social -- the organization of housing and the other things that are important in life, we also think will be health-promoting. Being able to break down those booths is crucial, at least for the Workers' Party. The working party is also concerned that we are doing more to put in place good health information. Since 2009, the Health Directorate has been working on quality indicators for care. We are missing progress in this area. It is important that reporting is also made as user-friendly as possible, and what is first reported can also be used locally in the improvement work, in some places. We are pleased that the establishment of a municipal health and care register is now progressing, for the digital tools in the healthcare service represent some of the most inefficient in primary health and particularly for the sick and elderly. We are therefore pleased that there will be a majority here in Stortingen to ensure that there will be far more drastic measures to ensure electronic communication tools between permanent and health centres, between midwives and maternity wards and across. And of course, in the case of pregnant women, we're happy that we're now also getting electronic follow-up. Clear medical-professional management in municipalities is a prerequisite for more targeted and dynamic cooperation within the community health service. Once we've been to the municipalities, maybe the area where we see the strongest distinction, where we have clear management at both institutional level, in home-based services, in the management of the municipality, not least when establishing cooperation agreements with the specialist health service. Immediate help is another area where the Workers' Party lacks clearer grip. It's not good when only 15 pst. the medical guards have their own medical car to take out. That's not good enough, and we don't think the emergency medical code is enough to lift this up. The Labour Party is pleased that both employers’ and workers’ organisations were so clearly aware of the importance of the right competence as a supporter of future health and care services, and, in particular, of ensuring the increased recruitment of health professionals is an incredibly great challenge. There are a lot of professionals in health, and the Labour Party has fallen down on the fact that we have confidence – and we also believe it is right in terms of innovation – that municipalities themselves choose what kind of competence they think is important in order to provide the best health care for their citizens. But it is also important, when we look at the education of new people in health, that the municipalities today do not have the obligation to organise a practical place. Of course, newly educated people who then get attractive practice places in hospitals are shaped towards hospitals when one does not get similar in primary health. So it's an important area, if we're going to be able to get a better balance between what happens with primary health in relation to specialist health. So to something absolutely crucial, which we think is strange: we had expectations that the minister here took action when it came to primary health research, addressing the challenges and the picture shown in Health Care21 – because it is clear that we need to increase the status of this area, it is vital that we also get more knowledge of what is happening in primary health, not least in prevention, innovation and welfare technology. The municipality is a comprehensive and exciting area of health. The working party has chosen to distribute it between us sitting in the fraction. I will end by promoting the proposals behind the Workers' Party, and the rest will be informed by the other representatives of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e240	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e243	This is a very mature and important message to the Stortinget about new ideas and better solutions for how to organise the municipal health service for the future. In order to understand the need for change, we really need to start from today's situation. Those receiving health care in municipalities have more diagnosis and more complex conditions than before. Unfortunately, the services provided are very fragmented and little coordinated. Users are not involved, and there is insufficient knowledge of the content and quality of services. We know that we're failing in some areas. There is too little focus on leadership development in primary health services — and there is too little systematic knowledge of management across the sector. In several areas, healthcare is too scarce and capacity is simply too low. The services of those who need the most help are too poor, and there is a failure in systematic follow-up. I know this sounds like a sad reality picture. Not everything is doing wrong today and no services are good in the municipalities, but it is high time to do an important job to improve the provision of these services. It is difficult to talk about the primary health service of the future without saying a word about the cooperation reform. In the summer, the Norwegian nurses' association presented a report on the consequences of the implementation of the cooperation reform. It was developed by Telemarksforschung. It describes how the massive transfer of responsibility from specialist health services to municipalities has resulted in increased workload and considerably more complex tasks. It states that after the introduction of the Interaction Reform, the quality of services varies more than before. It tells of the severe consequences for both patients and health professionals, because the reform was introduced before the municipalities had had time to build up the necessary skills. And the report shows us what we have been concerned about, and as Right warned against, by introducing the reform so quickly, that the empowerment in the municipality has been characterized by course and ad hoc training and not long-term building up completely necessary knowledge and competence. Users, relatives and health professionals say the services are too interconnected. The researchers say that, the report from the Norwegian Nurses' Association shows it. It takes our government seriously. This communication is therefore important and paves the way for necessary innovation in the community health service. I believe that there is reason to rejoice that the Committee meets in many important areas and agrees on many of the steps proposed by the Government. We need more holistic, close and coordinated healthcare in the municipalities. We need more professionals with different specialities and education, and they need to cooperate more on patients in teams. The government is offensively focusing on education and increased competence – and on leadership – because it is only through systematic and targeted work on raising knowledge and competences across the sector that we can ensure that we provide a primary health service that is highly professional. We all deserve to meet a competent service when we need help, whether it is ourselves, our children, our older parents or the fragile lady in the neighboring house. Before I was elected to the Stortinget, I worked as a nurse in a nursing home. There I experienced what it's like to work in teams that work. The team consisted of professionals with different health education, and we were led by a clear leader. Together, we evaluated each patient, and I believe we provided comprehensive and highly professional health care. When the message highlights the strength of working more in teams, I know it works. For the ergot therapist, there can be something about the arrangements that the doctor cannot. The institution cook knows something about nutrition that the nurse cannot. Together, we not only create security for patients and relatives, we create quality, and the patient is met with respect for his needs. And then there's one thing that's important: we created a working environment that was professionally interesting and motivating to work in. And that's not completely immaterial. Many of those taking health education are required to work in the primary health service. It is high time we turned this into a health care sector where it is interesting, exciting and professionally rewarding to work. We do not strengthen the professionalism of care and care by lowering requirements for knowledge and competence or by failing to measure the quality and content of services. The introduction of competence requirements into the legislation meets the need for more competence, so that municipalities have to employ a rootstock of different health professionals. When the Committee was travelling to Edinburgh in Scotland in 2014, we saw how co-located services make health care more accessible to the population, and that when professionals are in the same ‘house’, good team solutions can be put in place for patients and relatives. The government wants to establish more of this kind of work organisation also in Norway — it is referred to as primary health teams and follow-up teams — and I am pleased that the Committee broadly agrees with that. The decision-makers must get more people to work with in the doctor’s office. We need doctors to give priority to meeting users with medically demanding needs. We need more in the future. The doctor should therefore have several colleagues in his/her practice who can relieve her of several tasks. It is equally important for list patients who are children and young people, as are the list patients who have diabetes, coal or dementia. And then it's good use of resources if nurses and other health professionals can follow up the chronically ill patients of the prescriber in a more systematic way than they actually have time for today. These patients need structured follow-up. It may be those users who today experience falling between many chairs and getting too little help to master their own everyday life with disease. But there are also many in the municipalities who need more than the services that such a primary health team can provide. This applies, for example: in particular the most fragile sick and those with serious mental health challenges. Therefore, we need to formalise the cooperation around these patients with professionals with the right core competence. At the Committee’s hearing, several of the major and important patient organisations expressed their desire for specialised diagnostic-related teams and specialist nurses with competence for one and one disease. It is easy to acknowledge that those who represent patients with chronic disorders such as diabetes, Parkinson’s disease or dementia see the need for more knowledge of ‘sin’ diagnosis in municipalities. There is also a great need for more knowledge about this and about diseases we live with for many years. But no human being is his diagnosis, and unfortunately many of us live with more. Teams for users with complex needs should be based on function and needs and not just on diagnosis. We believe the solution to this is competent primary health team and follow-up team. We also believe that advanced clinical nurses, medics and other health professionals will play an incredibly important role in the years to come. By basing this teamwork on the patient’s needs, it could help more people master disease better and will be able to live at home longer than need hospitalization and institution. Then we also believe that it will strengthen and secure the important role of relatives, and that it may also open up good alliances with volunteering that make an important effort towards many who live with health challenges. We are making some concrete changes today. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government parties ensure that ergotherapy competence is now among the health professionals that municipalities are required to have in place. We are delighted that there is an overall committee that asks the government to assess the legislation relating to audiograph services, so that we can bring down long waiting times and unnecessary bottlenecks in hearing care. We also take with this an important step in mental health and drug abuse. We legislate from 2020 on the obligation of municipalities to have psychological competence, and municipalities get an improved funding system for municipal psychologists. I am pleased that our government is taking a strong settlement against the discrimination to which we expose addicts and mentally ill. And I have to say it's almost quite shocking that the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the setting warn against expanding the immediate help system for this patient group. We will impose a daily obligation for immediate help in the municipalities for mental health and drug abuse from 2017, because it is obvious that even those who are ill because of dependence or mental illness should have the same offer as others for the right to a daily offer. The red-green batches argue against immediate 24-hour assistance and the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print. The reason is that the municipalities have too little extended offer to the patients. There are actually two lines below the answer that others have known for a long time: that they simply didn't prioritize these patients when they had a pure majority in the Biggest for eight years. That's not the situation right now. These patients are given high priority, and I am also very pleased, on behalf of the Right, that we, together with the government partners Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are soon to present an escalating plan for the drug field that strengthens the work in the municipalities. This communication shows in its entirety the clear political direction of the government, where we strengthen the patient role and where we increase quality. That's how we create the patient's healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e287	Work on primary health communication has been both exciting and extensive, and I thank the Committee for its good dialogue. If we have not agreed on everything, we have agreed a lot. Municipal health services need to be developed in line with the general development of our society, and they also need to be developed in each municipality. Some of these services have worked to a large extent piecewise and divided, in the sense that the services have had each of their own running paths. There is a need to develop new pathways in systems and to achieve more interdisciplinary cooperation. This is about caring for the individual patient, and that fewer people are going to experience becoming wasteballs between the different systems. Different models for primary health teams in municipalities are to be examined in the notification. Such teams shall be the body responsible for basic health care for the whole population. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party sees the need to clarify who should have the overall responsibility for patients to prevent responsibilities powdering, and that one can waive responsibility in a team. The aim of reorganisation must be, first and foremost, better and more comprehensive patient treatment and availability of the necessary competences. This is about making things better for patients. The availability of appropriate skills in a timely manner may provide a basis for a comprehensive, high-quality and high-quality healthcare provision. The Christian People's Party supports the law-making of professionals who are to represent the core competence of the municipality, but the Christian People's Party also stresses the importance that such a law-making of some professionals does not become an exhaustive list, where one risks the omission or perhaps weakening of some professionals. At the end of the day, patients may be affected. There is a need for an overall assessment of which professions should be regulated, where the composition of core competence in the municipalities is discussed in detail. It is essential to ensure different competences, just in order to counteract different runways and fragmented services. All of this has one goal – better services for patients. The Christian People's Party wants to focus on children and young people in particular and their vulnerability. Children and young people with early mental challenges — in their childhood and youth — have a higher risk of both experiencing these problems as adults and developing drug problems and physical disorders. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party that we intensify our efforts to detect and combat violence against children through the first-line healthcare service. There must be good conditions for the detection of children who are exposed to violence by regular, health-care, dental and school health professionals. Better coordination and interaction can facilitate the detection of several of these cases. Then it's important with community psychologists, then it's important that the psychological services become part of the school health service, then it's important that we follow up what we all in this room agreed on when we deal with the issue of violence against children, that the committee commits itself to providing a minimum standard of school health service, because we had a goal of reaching these children first and foremost. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has been willing to earmark in its budget just money for the school health service, which is interdisciplinary, to achieve the goal of discovering more children and preventing as early as possible. The greatest growth in municipal care services in recent years has occurred in the home services, and the Christian People's Party is concerned that the multidisciplinary teams will meet the patient both at home and at the institution, in order to facilitate better arrangements for individuals, provide predictability for relatives, provide security to be there when life is most vulnerable. The follow-up team will be centralized.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e302	The size has been invited to decide how we can obtain a future-oriented municipal health and care service. The government has called the message "The Primary Health Service of the Future" – proximity and totality, and it's a very good title. Community health services are very important. That's where people cage, that's where the health supply is given, that's also where the responsibility must be, and that's where prevention takes place. It is important that health services are available and decentralised. The central party doesn't believe that the solution is then larger municipalities, but that the offer is given where people are. The message is seen as a follow-up to the Interaction Reform, which was a policy reform, which called for the growth of health services to take place in the municipalities and for a better interaction between the primary health services and the specialist services. I would first like to say that of course there is a lot of good in this message from the government. There are many things that are emphasised, which are important, among other things. the need for more multidisciplinary cooperation and the focus on enhanced competences in the primary care service. The idea of a primary health team and a follow-up team, we essentially stop and think that the idea can be good. We have pointed out in the setting that we believe there is some uncertainty about both the scope and who is left with the medical professional responsibility, which was also the representative of the Christian People's Party. We have also asked questions about funding. It also says in the message that primary health teams can be organized alongside the fixed medical system, and we are very critical that it should be a model. We are also critical of – and suggest against – the fact that when one is going to investigate the funding of these themes, a model, which should in any case be assessed, is to liquidate the entire public health funding for municipal health services. It is clearly opposed to the Center Party, and we are proposing counter-proposals against it. We're to blame by the representative Kari Kjenaas Kjos for being too busy with professionals, since we're questioning these primary health teams. We're not. We also owe too little attention to professionals when we don't go into lawmaking in municipal health and care law. We're on top of what we did in the Red-Green government, that we want it to be the competence that's important to get laid down in the law, and we're afraid that this could lead to some professionals now having more difficulty coming in, for example. activists, which are nearly wiped out in many places. I can talk a lot about the interaction reform. Telemark research was mentioned, and yes, there has been criticism that the work was transferred before the municipality had built up its competence. For this reason, we are critical to introduce payment obligations and acute help-offers already in 2017 for the Ruspacers and Psychiatric Patients. It might be repeating what wasn't good enough when one introduced it in the somatic. There are major challenges when it comes to the drugs and psychiatry field in municipalities. We know that 40 pst. of people who are being printed after processing, have no residence. We know that annual efforts in the field of mental health have not increased particularly since 2008. We're not against the liability of these patients, but we're against introducing it before the municipalities have a chance to build up their supply. For this reason, we suggest that we have a five-year escalation plan for mental health work in the municipalities, so that one can subsequently introduce these other financial arrangements. This is also an old-age care message. We found that there is little power in the message to get a better care for the elderly. Government funding is not a escalating plan. It's just to transfer this to the state. We think this must be local. We are pleased with the bet in the daytime activity space, and that it comes as a legal requirement. Otherwise, I have to name a medical officer – I only have four seconds left of speaking time – because it is very important, and I hope that we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e330	The President assumes that the representative Toppe will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e333	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e338	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e342	I want us to imagine that we're taking little Per with us in seven years on a little walk around the healthcare system. He may need to get the help of logoped. He must first enter the school health service to be referred to the PPT. He definitely needs help from the health center. In addition, there may be some challenges at home, so you have to deal with child protection. He's obese and has to deal with the health center. In addition, he has ADHD and has to deal with the BUP. This describes a development in the Norwegian health and care sector where we have built up fragmented silos for each single near-diagnosis. Especially for children and young people and the elderly, it becomes difficult to deal with the fact that there are relatives who are responsible for taking the individual around to knock on the doors and get help. It is also the case that Norwegian municipalities today are staggering. It's also too fragmented. This is related, and this message is a long step in bringing together services and competences and building services around individuals instead of further spreading this beyond, and ensuring that we have fewer and fewer part-time positions for specialised competences. In the case of children and young people, we need to have a development with more Family Houses, where school health services, health sisters, midwives and youth health centres are gathered to a much greater extent, so that children and families do not have to run around. Four-year controls for children in kindergarten are another example of the need to organise and structure this differently. We have a structure from the 1970s and 1980s. At the current stage in Norway, we have a great opportunity in the period up to 2020 to organise primary health services and healthcare in general differently to meet the challenges we face from 2025, with a large proportion of growing population over 80 years of age with increasing suffering. We have the financial freedom of action, we have a technology that is being rolled out, literally, and we have an adventurous ability to build competences. It requires that we, as politicians, do something about funding. Many countries are away from unit price financing and are moving to framework financing and then to the so-called ‘bundled payment’ mentioned in the message, so that the primary level is given responsibility for financing processes for a number of patient groups. Then I'm over diabetes, among other things, as an example, where the primary level can get a much greater responsibility. I'm very happy that we've had our knees that we're going to develop a diabetes plan next year. It must not be too extensive and must be concrete. We need to put in the effort earlier, and the point of ‘bundled payment’ is to get whole patient pathways and stimulate to develop early interventions, instead of what we are doing today: that diabetic patients are filling dialysis departments around Norway to 1 million. kr a year, for that treatment is the most expensive to operate. It's the worst for the patient – and it's the worst for the social economy. Public health and early intervention are important. That is why it is also important to address popular concerns as a means of financing precisely the early efforts, economically speaking. Innovation and development are also important. That's why I'm very happy that the ergot therapists are also going to be among the skills that we're going to have. They are those who have important competences and have important capacities to put new technologies into practice, but they are also the best of all to facilitate universal design. It is those who have driven developments in everyday rehabilitation, who can reduce the number of people who want to live longer at home. They may also have some capacity and ability to take leadership, which we are discussing here today. Eidsberg Municipality, for example, establishes a virtual department where there is technological interaction around patients. Here, ergot therapists can come in with a competence that is more universal than the silofagen that nurses and doctors are constantly cultivating. They're going to be a little bit of themselves enough. Finally, I would like to address the one proposal of the Left, which we stand alone on, when it comes to establishing a statutory right to follow-up at a distance for the chroniclers – I hope the others will soon come after – because it is putting the patient in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e359	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e362	The message we are about to address is a message that deals with much of what is most important in our health care, many of the services that first reach the population, and there are many important debates to address it. However, I have to say in the beginning that from the point of view of the SV, the message is a disappointment, because it is too little concrete, and because it does not go into two of the things that we think are most important for developing tomorrow's primary health service. One is to find new ways of governing, where we use resources better, where we can replace unnecessary bureaucracy, settle with measurement and market talent and return to the necessary respect for professionalism in the various services. The second is that we had a clear expectation that the message would bring us a step further in the debate on staffing, also because the government itself has warned that it would either come up with a proposal for a standard of staffing or a supervisor in the care of the elderly, and announced in advance that we should get a clarification in this message, which did not come. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to ask again for the status of that process, and what the government is actually working on. The main perspective in this area is the development of comprehensive, good services, and we are committed to calling for Community solutions, because community works best. That's why one of the trends we see under this government, and as we've seen in many blue municipalities, which worry us, is the increasing desire for commercialisation in health and care. There is a contrast between thinking globally and breaking up health and care services in some public and partly commercial services. Moreover, it would be an efficiency and quality problem over time if too many tax credits disappeared from the sector in the profit of commercial operators. After the municipal elections, we see exciting things happening in the way of managing health and care services in several municipalities. Both in Oslo and Tromsø, the new majority have now taken initiatives for trust reforms, i.e. reforms aimed at eliminating unnecessary target management, unnecessary bureaucracy, restoring trust in the professionalism of employees, and also creating time and space for services that are more on the premises of users. The trust reform that is now to be carried out in the Municipality of Oslo, after so many years of stopwatch care and over-bureaucratic and market-driven health and care support, I think will be able to provide examples that can spread across the country. Therefore, one of the things SV wants is a national policy for more trust and less bureaucracy, which is little in this communication. We know too little today about the great differences we have to assume that it is in the crew of important services, among other things. in nursing homes and in home care in the care of the elderly. I am therefore amazed that only the centre party and SV are voting in favour of a proposal to get a proper monitoring of this. Just that discussion the government parties say they have about staffing, should suggest that they were interested in getting a better factual basis for doing this job. Today we know too little that we can, for example. in this room discuss concrete proposals for national staffing rules and standards. Regardless of the view of that kind of grip, it should be of interest to several parties to come up with the facts we need for a more informed debate about the great differences that we know exist around our health and care services. Finally, I just want to repeat something I say very often, and that is that the funds for health sisters, health stations and school health services have to be earmarked. The message had been a fine time for the government to admit that they had been on the wrong course. I noticed that it did not happen this time either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e377	It is an important big business message The Stortinget is discussing today, simply because the primary health service and care services in the municipality are the most important and most important part of our health services. However, this notification is also historical, because it is the first time that a separate notification is presented dealing with the whole of the primary health service in the municipalities. Policy discussions in the field of health often deal with individual cases, single diagnosis, individual services and individual hospitals. This message is about proximity and holistic solutions in the patient’s healthcare. We cannot develop health and care services without raising our eyes and having a direction for where we want to go. In working on this message, we have just done so. We've talked to the users, to the patients. We have put great emphasis on dialogue with them, with supervisory authorities and patient and user representatives in addition to the professional environments. This gave us a clear message about what are the main challenges, and it is: fragmentation, challenges and variation in quality and competence, management and user involvement. I also believe that this picture of the challenge is based on a broad political consensus. Although not everyone agrees with all the measures, I hope that we now agree on the direction in which we should go. The challenge and target image of the interreform is broadly anchored in the Stortinget. Municipalities have gained a more important role in providing the necessary health and care services to the population, but now they also need to be able to meet the challenges of the future. The notification of primary health services shows the way here and therefore takes an important step forward in the interaction reform. I am also pleased that we have received quite broad support for many of these important steps. Then I would say and really stress that the municipal reform is essential to enable the municipalities to create the primary health service of the future. Through larger municipalities, we can get wider and more solid professional environments, share skills, create greater breadth of supply and make better use of resources. This Communication and the Storing Communication on the Community Reform are therefore two messages which are, in reality, Siamese twins. It is not possible to join the target image contained in this Storing Communication without at the same time supporting the need to make a change in the municipal structure. The primary health message is one of several government messages in the last year and the messages have to be seen in the context. I am thinking in particular of the public health report, which we have recently addressed, the annual quality reports, the task report from the Ministry of Local Affairs, the medical report and the upcoming hospital notification. The changes proposed in the notifications are based on patients, users and relatives’ experience in the services and developments facing us as countries. The quality and performance of municipal health and care services is crucial, inter alia: for which hospital structure we may have, and for the capacity needs of the specialist health service. We need a municipal health and care service that are good at preventing diseases that help users and patients master the life of disease, and that they manage to live as they wish, and to participate in society, and that master their own lives as users and patients who provide good services to all with advanced and complex needs, which depend entirely on well-coordinated services from several. The picture of the disease is changing. We live longer and often have more illnesses and health problems at the same time. At the same time, hospitalisation is shorter, and advanced and demanding conditions are going to be managed – and managed – in the municipalities. Organisation, funding and regulation and tradition make municipal services fragmented today. We have poor availability and capacity in several areas. Those with high and complex needs are not provided with services that are adequately coordinated and are often under-accompanied by medical follow-up in relation to their health status. Persons at risk of developing a disease, or who have a chronic or long-term disease, are not currently receiving sufficient training or follow-up to prevent a deterioration and are therefore becoming sicker than necessary. Users are not adequately included in decisions on their own health and treatment. The rule that no decisions about me need to be clarified in all parts of the healthcare system. This is also a challenge at system level, where one plans and develops the service. Then we also have limited knowledge of municipal health and care services. It makes it difficult to manage, and it makes it difficult to conduct systematic quality improvement and research. The communication looks at the whole picture and finds common denominators for many of these challenges. The Communication emphasises actions that will lead to increased competence, better management, multi-disciplinaryism, team organisation, better use of ICT and welfare technology solutions. First of all, we need more qualified people, we need more highly qualified people, and we need more with a broad range of clinical competence. In the 2016 budget, we describe Competence Commitment 2020, our recruitment, competence and professional development plan for municipal health and care services. Proper competences in health and care services are so fundamental that we believe that this should be demonstrated by law. Of course, the listing is not exhaustive, but we believe that it is competence that is crucial for municipalities to be able to provide good primary health services at all. The type of competence should be regulated. The Government wants health and social education and further training to be more adapted to the needs of the service. We will look at the content of education, the need for change and whether some education should qualify for new roles and tasks. The sharing of competences is an important measure. The notification proposes to reflect the obligation to provide guidance to municipalities for specialised health services. This is important in principle. Municipalities will now be given a duty to provide guidance to specialist health services. It is a clear expression that we are likening these two parts of healthcare and recognizing that both services have experiences they can learn from each other. There is also a need to facilitate the sharing of competences within municipalities. Good management is required to develop the services and to change the way they operate. It is about planning and implementing services in a good way. We therefore need to improve management training – and we have already done so – and make clear demands for management. Today, municipalities have great freedom to decide how to organise services. I still expect them to dare to think new. As it is today, the services are organised according to personnel and not according to the needs of the users. The government will create scope for innovation, so that professional groups with different competences and providing different services can complement each other. Municipal health and care services shall provide services to people of all ages. Patients are not a homogeneous group. Many are at risk of developing disease, others have a disease they have to live with, some have more diseases at once, and others are very ill. The message describes two different teams: primary health teams and follow-up teams. In an average municipality, there are few patients with each diagnosis, including the usual ones. Patients often have more diagnoses. Therefore, function and needs, not diagnosis, must be governing how the teams work. I look at the setting that there is something different about the team. I want to make it clear that I'm not now talking about new silos, but a way of working on that creates flexibility and cooperation. A primary health team is an extension of firming practice. The core of the team is general practitioner, nurse and administrative staff. The team is the primary contact point for the population with healthcare. This core team interacts with others and can be expanded with more. Primary health teams will continue to maintain the continuity of contact between patients and the caregiver’s current status, while coordinating services and providing a wider range of services. The decision maker is the natural leader of this team. Some patients need more than the primary health team can deliver. These are typically users of home services with the need for a fixed contact person, structured follow-up and an individual plan. The follow-up team shall identify the user’s objectives and needs and organise and tailor an offer so that more people can be treated in their own homes rather than in hospitals or institutions. Nursing with a broad clinical competence will be a natural leader of a follow-up team.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e455	When we travel around Municipality-Norway, we experience that there is a lot of knowledge, a lot of creativity and really will and interest in trying out new models. So the question for the Minister of Health is: how much freedom will be given to municipalities to pilot different models and to bring about the creativity and innovation that at least many of us are experiencing in the municipalities, so that once again they do not feel that the primary health field is being run from top to bottom, but that we get the power that is from those who are the densest of users, who know the service best?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e462	We keep the idea of the municipality’s role in the primary health service – and this is well established in the notification – where municipalities have a separate responsibility and freedom to organise the service. However, there is no doubt that the primary health message both describes a direction that we want the municipalities to follow, and also looks at instruments that can motivate them to do so, and it is also part of today's legislation and systems that prevent good solutions. We have a responsibility to also solve nationally. I also have the same experience as the representative. There are amazingly many good stories, examples and pilots around. My concern is that there will be too many pilots and too little implementation combined, and it creates too much variation for the inhabitants – that is my great concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e469	The Council of State said several times in its statement that we have to plan for the future. And then it's said that every third person has to choose care work if we're going to have the same level as now when a larger proportion of the population gets older, i.e. in 2025. At the same time, we know that fewer young people choose care professionals. In Norwegian hospitals today, 130 patients share one doctor, and they also have six–seven diseases, and we write people out of hospitals earlier than before, and the complexity of care services in Norwegian municipalities is increasing. How will the Council of State plan for the future and ensure competence so that we get the right personnel for the patients in the future primary health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e476	I would like to thank you very much for this reply, because it goes right into the heart of what I believe this message will help solve. I think we all recognize that continuing as now is not an alternative just for the reasons that the representative here is taking up, and then we have to think again. I believe that the answer to that is a much higher level of competence, and the example drawn in the case of medical coverage at home is, in my opinion, a good example of that. What we see is that if the municipalities are betting on good medical coverage in hospitals, there is a security in the offer that allows the patient to be hospitalized fewer times, creating greater stability in the staff, recruiting others with higher skills, so the reality is when we look beyond Municipality-Norway, that municipalities that systematically focus on competence have better quality in the services, with consistently lower costs in the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e481	I have a question about KAD beds, so municipal emergency 24 hours. In Bergen they are now to open a large department of approx. 20-30 beds -- I don't think exactly. The problem is that they're concerned about the medical recruitment of these major departments, which require great, good and stable skills, because the rule is that those doctors who work in the large department won't get it as a specialist if they don't work 50 pst. on the outside, i.e. in a general medical practice. I have addressed it in written questions, but will it be repeated here: does the Council not see the need to change this rule in order for the municipal emergency services to function properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e488	The requirement for this type of service will enter into force on 1 January next year. In many of the municipalities that have started this, we still see that the system has not been properly settled. The coating percentage is still too low, in my opinion. We've transferred quite a lot of resources from hospitals to the municipalities to set up these beds, and we depend on the offer to work better. These are actually the beds of the boarders, where the boarders can input directly. I believe that much will depend on the decision-makers in a municipality feeling secure that this is a good offer, which they can use. That makes good toy coverage very central. That's why we want to look at the very circumstances the representative is dealing with, because we need to make sure that this is an interesting and exciting job for good doctors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e496	In the Netherlands, health care is one of the most attractive specialties for doctors. In Norway, we have a health home that is approved for medical specialisation in hospitals. Hospital medicine probably doesn't exist on the list of what doctors don't want to work with or can choose. The challenge to the Council of State is how to strengthen the recruitment of health care specialists, geriatricians and others to work with all the elderly who will need help in the care sector in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e503	It is this that is our common challenge, and as we believe we are lifting up in this message. Again, this is about building good competences in primary health care. I think one here has to look at what is self-strengthening effects, and what brings one into a negative spiral. If more doctors want to work with hospital medicine, they have to experience that they are working in a nursing home together with colleagues in major jobs, in a professional environment where there is a commitment to competence. For example, when we are now working on the provision of counselling services in municipalities, one of the questions that we really need to ensure when we establish this is that we provide a good guide and guidance of high quality. If we don't, we might get a negative effect, people get directly scared because they see that this isn't a job where they want to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e510	In the government statement, the government parties promised that we would have a supervisor or a standard for staffing in the care of the elderly. Earlier this year we were told that we would be given a clarification of the status of this work in the primary health message. I can't see we've got that. Therefore, I simply wonder what the status of that work is. Does the government work with a supervisor or a norm? When will we see the result of that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e515	As I've also said before, this is about two things. First of all, we have the people who are going to make sure that we have this coverage, that we have this competence in place. That is what we are responding to in the Competence Plan 2020, which is mentioned in this Communication, but which is described even more clearly in the State budget, which has now been presented. In addition, we are working on what is our response to what is on the government platform: the establishment of a security standard, which should specify how a person in a nursing home ensures good management, organisation, professional practice and staffing. That work is now in progress. The Executive Board has been given a mandate. There will be a few answers to how this should be done concretely. The way in which work is to be carried out has already been responded to through our work on a health and safety standard in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e525	The Government's primary health message is based on several of the messages provided by the Red-Green Government. Both the interaction reform and not least the report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, the care of tomorrow, is being highlighted as an important basis for the message we are debating today. Therefore, there is a great deal in the primary health message we can agree with, while other proposals for solutions and road choices are not in line with what the Workers' Party wants for the primary health service. Not least, the Labour Party fundamentally disagrees with the privatisation and commercialisation for which the government parties make themselves spokespersons. In this message, the government states that the principle of professional neutrality should be abolished and that some professional professionals should be regulated in the public health service. This, as we see it, will certainly be the city of challenges. We saw it clearly during the big questions about the message. Several of the hearing bodies argued with great credibility that their competence would not be taken into account when setting up health professionals in municipalities. Ergot therapists, music therapists, protectors and health professionals, to name a few, are so absolute professionals who are needed in the health and care sector and who were not initially included in the legislative proposal, but then ergot therapists have come in after. The Labour Party believes that the principle of professional neutrality in a better and more dynamic way regulates the responsibilities of the municipality. Such a principle ensures a wider scope in the organisation of service provision, while at the same time ensuring that quality indicators and competence requirements are given a greater place in the description of municipal health and care services. A professional neutral law will allow for local adaptations, greater freedom of action and the organisation of services that support the provision of services across professional professionals and also cooperation between sub-services. This would discourage, as the Hearing Officers also pointed out, legal professions under the Health Care Act appear to be more important than those which are not explicitly regulated. We're getting older now. The primary health message itself has little focus on older policy, but the message shows that the government has submitted a care plan for 2020 and that a dementia plan will also be drawn up. I think that's good, and that's in line with the work we did on the red-green watch. Most people want to live in their own homes for as long as possible. There is a significant need and potential for new solutions to meet future care challenges — as also the Stoltenberg II Government addressed in the Tomorrow’s Care Communication. In particular, it is important to increase knowledge and confidentiality of various welfare technology tools. Here, work must be done on both political and professional environments and among users. Governments need to address more fully the challenges of implementing and financing welfare technology solutions for use both in institutions and in the homes of people who need it. It is essential that one finds good facilities for the financing of municipal care for the elderly. There is cause for concern about the large differences between municipalities in the provision of sufficient good services to the older population. That's why we need to think about these questions. However, the working party is skeptical about the government's testing of models where one at least involves a kind of price financing of the care of the elderly. Such policies will increase bureaucracy, misuse of resources and weaken the local governance of an important policy area. There will be no more money from the state taking over the care of the elderly. We already see that many municipalities refuse to participate in the trials to which the government has invited. The working party believes that there are far simpler and more accurate ways of ensuring care for the elderly, such as the elderly. to consider an earmarked sector grant for this field with a description of the clear content and quality requirements on which the services are to be based. The Labour Party agrees that it is important and necessary to work as a team in the primary health service. But we're not sure that a model with primary health teams that are organized as their own private practice units, for which the message calls for, is the way to go. Several hearing bodies, including: Norwegian Physiotherapist Federation, is skeptical of such a model. Municipalities must have the overall governance of health provision in order for us to provide equivalent services to all citizens. We assume that the funding models that are ultimately chosen provide municipalities with the governance that is necessary to provide services of the quality that we want and that reaches everyone. And then the Workers' Party believes, and has proposed, that prevention and health promotion work must be a clearer issue in the primary health service than the one provided by the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e548	With Meld. St. 26 for 2014–2015, the Primary Health Service of the Future – proximity and overall, the government places patients’ needs at the centre of development and change of health care services in municipalities. In my article, I want to focus on the government's thoughts and goals for better rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which have been referred to for too many years as one of the weakest areas of health and care. In Norway, we are good at saving lives, but not as good at helping people back to a worthwhile life, to master their own everyday lives. Despite repeated inter-political desires over the years to lift these two areas, we still experience that many do not get the help they need. I am pleased that the government is now working on an escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, as we promised in opposition, and in line with the cooperation agreement. The plan shall clarify what is necessary and adequate habilitation and rehabilitation services. It shall contribute to a clearer distribution of responsibilities between the municipalities and the specialist health service and shall have a clear focus on improving interaction between the two. Unfortunately, despite the fact that training is a central element of a rehabilitation service and is essential for mastering, we often experience that the need for rehabilitation is not being identified. What is behind this is difficult to say, but probably has to do with lack of competence, management, attitudes and culture in the service. Health and social workers need to learn to ask questions about whether the user needs rehabilitation, because asking a user about what is important to him is often the answer that mastering daily tasks is important. The questions must therefore be asked in hospital discharges, in hospital consultations with the permanent medical practitioner, in healthcare notifications and at all institutions where health services meet users with reduced functional and mastering skills. Once the need has been identified, managers and staff in the service must know how to meet their needs in a good and knowledge-based manner. We have to make sure that the offers exist and that they are available. It is about organisation and working methods. It is about health and social workers with the right skills, and it is about cross-sectoral cooperation. Many municipalities lack basic basic skills to provide a good rehabilitation and rehabilitation service. The waiting time is long with a physiotherapist, and in particular with a physiotherapist with specialised competence. It is therefore necessary to clarify the obligation on municipalities to ensure that the capacity is sufficient. In order to ensure competence in municipalities, the government has proposed that physiotherapy and ergotherapy become a statutory service in the municipality. Rehabilitation is a process of thought that must permeate all aspects and services of municipal health and care services. Good organisation of services is required and designed to meet the needs, objectives and resources of users, and not just after individual diagnosis. Because habilitation and rehabilitation are composed of several services to a whole, this is a demanding area. Employees must therefore have competence in several fields. They need to be able to cooperate with users, relatives and colleagues in the municipal health and specialist health services, as well as with other support players in other social sectors. Finally, it is a political desire to bring together several rehabilitation tasks that are currently carried out in the specialist health service, in larger and more competent municipalities in the context of the municipal reform. It will therefore be further explored how a transfer of responsibility for rehabilitation and rehabilitation from the specialist health service to the municipality can be carried out as part of the further work on the community reform. I really look forward to the plan being presented to Stortinget, but at the same time I would like to point out that existing specialist health services do not need to be stepped down until good and sufficient competence is built up in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e580	The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health for all, preventing disease, and that balances social differences. For the Workers' Party, the aim is for those in need of health care to experience them as accessible, safe, integrated and coordinated. In our time in government, we raised awareness of the prevention and future needs and challenges of healthcare. Early effort and prevention is an investment in health for each of us, but also for the community. The Primary Health Communication points to a great deal to be explored further, but lacks some concrete measures and proposals for new models that focus on more interaction, prevention and less repair. Psychiatric health is the greatest public health challenge of our time. According to the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, that society costs more than 185 billion dollars. kr per year, and it stands for 40 pst. of expenditure on disability benefits and 40 pst. the cost of long-term sick leave. But most importantly, for individuals it makes life difficult. The development of mental disorders is complex, but research shows that mental disorders can be prevented by early interventions. The Labour Party believes that this must underpin the next major health promise in Norway. A new escalation plan for prevention and early intervention for mental health is needed. The starting point must be on the arenas where people live their lives. Actions need to be put in place before the problems develop, and whenever assistance is needed, they should be available quickly. Good kindergartens, maternity care, health centres, school health services and a safe, organised working life are important inputs to good mental health. The Labour Party will provide earmarked funds in a phase of escalation to health stations and school health services in all municipalities. We also believe that more interaction between primary and specialist health services is needed to meet the challenges. I want to mention an example from my home country that we in the Workers' Party believe is forward-looking. In the Nord-Trøndelag, the scheme of enhanced school health services is established. Through this scheme, all high school students in the North-Trøndelag have the opportunity to have up to five interviews with treatment providers from Outpatient Kinder- und Jugendspsychiatrics in their own school. The scheme is widely used by students and, in addition, the BUP participates in meetings with schools' student services for guidance in student matters. This strengthens the school's competence and development. The commitment to mental health is considered essential in order to achieve the objective of better implementation in higher education. Investing in good kindergartens, schools, health centres, school health services, the community environment and not least a good old age is investing in our future health. One of the main tasks of primary health services is to embrace them with comprehensive and complex needs. We in the Workers' Party believe it is very important to address the health care challenge of misuse. One of the most frequent causes of poor quality and damage to our health care is the misuse of medicines. It shall also deal with the notification of medicinal products as soon as possible. The Workers' Party is in favour of the proposal that municipalities should systematically go through the use of medicinal products in their nursing homes. An average room in the hospital is taking seven medicines at the same time, which can be very unlucky without a careful professional evaluation. This has been a practice in the municipality of Trondheim for a long time, and we see good results from such actions. I think this is the time I'm going to spend on an important message that fixes central but also well-established principles of good interaction, competence and management – all for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e601	I want to start by answering what has been said about drugs and psychiatry. It is clear that the Workers' Party is in order for us to have a smooth and good transition between primary health care and specialist health care for this patient group. But then we have to be absolutely sure that that offer is for the benefit of patients. When we have traveled around and visited institutions, and when we have talked to user organisations, they give clear feedback – including at the hearing – that so many people are being refurbished. It's not for the patient's benefit, as the Workers' Party sees it, so we're not against it. But we have called for a stepping-up plan in the field of drugs, to say something more clearly about the quality requirements that have been added to the municipalities, so that at least we have a tool and an order to the municipalities, and that we also learn how it has been in terms of somatics, so that we can also do an improvement there. The worst thing that can happen is that we get a lower treatment rate for exactly these two target groups, because I know that there is a cross-political consensus that this group should be given priority. So let's do it with piloting and how we're going to be able to figure out the good solutions. I am a little disappointed with the Minister's response, because it is perfectly possible to place an order on the overall goal that we are now adopting in the context of the primary health notification, both to address the fact that we need to develop prevention measures as evidenced effect, that we are mobilising citizens and patients and their own resources in another way for individual adaptation and better resource use, and to give a room for action to the municipalities in order to use their creativity. Like several of you, I have experience in municipal policy. It is always provocative to step down rather than accept the skills you have, and to base the creativity and innovation that exist. So that's where we hope there's a change going on. In terms of innovation, there is a great need for it in primary health. I've asked the local authorities, what does it mean most? What do you expect of us as big-scale politicians in order to facilitate so that we can get more of the right practice out in the municipalities? Then they have said that having financial incentives – it doesn't have to be much, but being able to show that by doing it this way, we get support from the state – is the best way to implement new practices. It's about music therapy, it's about welfare technology -- it's about pointing out that you're getting something extra from the state, as well as that you're facilitating the right practice. So there we have also received very good feedback from the municipalities. We don't have any support, unfortunately, but we're now getting caught up in that. Maybe it's misunderstood as we've formulated it in our notes. We are always optimists now and hope you come after! As far as welfare technology is concerned, we see that at least the Left and the Workers' Party are in line, and so are we. So it's purchases. We think it needs to be much clearer that municipalities can use their purchasing power to bring innovation and innovation, not least in service innovation and not just against products and medicines and that area. Then the Workers' Party, as the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol was in, has also addressed that we will follow up when we get the medical report. We want to increase the use of pharmacies, pharmacists and to see if there are also opportunities to improve resource use and better lowthreshold services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e620	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e623	Yesterday there was an exciting brochure in the mailbox – municipal reform in the Drammens region – and I will take the opportunity to talk about the importance of quality in the service and the assumptions in the municipalities. This brochure highlighted the importance of good and equivalent services for citizens. It was also pointed out that strong and robust professional environments are needed, and that in the future, local authorities will face challenges in recruiting professionals. Norway has changed significantly since the city map was drawn in the 1960s: there has been a large population growth, new transport opportunities, housing patterns, new technologies, new communication opportunities, and more and more tasks are being transferred to the municipalities, for example as a result of the interaction reform. After all, municipalities are now to care for several elderly people and people with complex and complex diseases and disorders. I am pleased that, in a comment in the position, the majority point out that this leads to a need for larger and more robust municipalities in Norway – which have the strong and good professional environments that can provide the welfare services that citizens need. The majority also indicate that the municipal reform will give municipalities more tasks. Municipalities will have more responsibility and will gradually have a greater economic space. So a new municipal structure – with larger trade unions – can make municipalities better able to deliver high-quality health and care services in line with both current and future needs. This message, the primary health service of the future – proximity and completeness, must therefore be seen in the context of Reporting. St. 14 for 2014–2015, Municipal Reform – new tasks for larger municipalities. Something else is going to close the door to the future, because the message describes so well the challenges that are in the municipal health and care service today. There are challenges, as many have been faced here, there are fragmented services, lack of interaction between local and specialist health services, little knowledge of quality and little research into services. Most people who have been related to primary health care will be recognized in this description. It is therefore absolutely necessary to see this communication in the context of the community reform, we shall succeed in the ambitions that are here. The government has started, far ahead – there is a commitment to school health services, psychologists in the municipalities – but this needs to be further worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e637	It is a big and important message we are discussing today. The proximity and overallity of the primary health service is essential for us to be able to identify it as good. I think most of the users of the service do it; I think the patients experience primary health services as available, safe, comprehensive and coordinated. Despite this, many users report that services are too fragmented and too unavailability. When changing the needs of users, we also need to change the facility of services. In all areas, the primary health service will be brought forward in the future, including: in the field of multiple electronic solutions where this is natural. It's important that we make arrangements to make this possible. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has, among other things: sent, after consultation, a legislative amendment proposal repealing the current restrictions relating to the dispatch of medicinal products from pharmacies, with a view to the introduction of next year. It's proposed $25 million. kr in the 2016 government budget for this purpose, in which case Norwegian pharmacies will be able to establish online trade in the sale of medicinal products subject to prescription. The center party is, uncertainly for what reason, against this. They find it difficult to see that the consequences of more online pharmacies are fully explored and that adequate and rapid access to drugs is essential in the districts. Then it might be appropriate to point out that nettapotek will also be available in the districts. One of the backgrounds to such a pharmacy service is just increased accessibility for people in the districts, people who may not have a pharmacy sale in their own neighborhood. Better information on the proper use of medicinal products will be important in the future in order to avoid mis-medication. In this way, I look forward to the treatment of the notification of medicinal products, which we in this Chamber will soon receive on our table. In it, the government shows that drug review provides better quality of treatment, increased patient safety, better health for the patient, and that it can lead to fewer hospitalisations. It is therefore proposed to lay down an obligation for municipalities to provide systematic medical reviews for patients in the hospitals for which the municipalities are responsible. Better information on medicinal products for patients and healthcare professionals will help reduce the risk of misuse of medicinal products and will improve compliance with treatment. It is about ensuring that the elderly in the institution and home care receive what they should have of medicines — no more or less.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e650	To the representative Audun Lightbakken, who is constantly talking about stopping the timer: it's good rhetoric, but the Lightbaken and the Socialist Left Party are not talking about in the same breath, is that it will lead to increased waiting lists. At the same time, SV will not publish the waiting lists either, and that is bad policy. As a result, relatives have to set up more, and it becomes more demanding to inform themselves about the service provision. There's even more pressure and pressure, and it opens up that you can use different tools to push yourself forward in the system. The light background was also within the image of the actor – and there have been so many others – and several have mentioned that this message opens up to use more private actors and that there will be increased commercialisation. It remains to be seen, but the challenge is how to solve this with capacity without using many different actors. In particular, the introduction of new technologies, where education today has both a low level of competence and a low level of capacity. We are totally dependent on using some private actors to get technology skills into the health and care sector. Another challenge is to meet the ideal actors, which are, of course, very big players in some parts of the healthcare sector today. An example from the time of the red-green government is that one took from the housing cooperatives, the housing complexes and Norwegian Women's Sanitation incentives and subsidies to build old-age homes and nursing homes. It's perhaps one of the most failed experiments you've done in the care sector in recent years. This led to very few buildings being built. So for education and recruitment, because I'm worried that we're still paying too little in the colleges. Many people have basic education related to health. Health professionals are now health ministers, dentists, activists, foot nurses, just to mention something. I see too few of them in the vocational school offer today. Here we need to put in place an effort to expand the provision of vocational education, but also to ensure that, in cooperation with the vocational schools, the municipalities add right practices that make the provision of education more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e661	This is a very important communication on strengthening and improving the provision already made in the primary health service in Norway. It is important to say that there is a lot of good going on in the primary health service that is there today, but that does not mean that you should not go on. A lot more needs to be done, and a lot of important and new steps must be taken in the communication, as the government proposes, and on which the Progress Party fully supports. There is an incredible amount of good that lies here in strengthening and improving care for the elderly in the municipal sector. Not least, 1200 new day-care sites for dentures that we are already included in the 2016 budget are an important measure. Dementia plan is important to get in place. Well-being technology is important to do something about and use more than what you do today, because it offers great, new opportunities. It is important to strengthen the competence of care professionals, especially in the care of the elderly and in the care professions in general, and therefore I am very pleased that the government is putting so much pressure on the ability to improve. Team work, working on a team and thinking differently from what you might have done so far, is also very positive. I am very pleased that the government is putting a lot of pressure on it, and that is the Advancement Party very much agrees. Another area, of course, is management and management competence. It's important to put in place that we have really good managers, because you can see that there's a big difference between departments or hospitals or other places that run with good managers, versus where it might not be run with very good managers. That's why management is incredibly important, and that's why the Progress Party is concerned about and wants to set up a standard of manpower, but it must be a really good standard of manpower. I know that when we were working on the kindergarten reform, there was quite a lot of time to make sure you got a proper and good solution in place. That's why I'm glad that the Council of State today says so clearly that this is something we're working on, but we have to make sure that we have both the competence and the people there to make sure that we can get a good solution in place. Then I have to say that I am surprised to hear the Labour Party's Tove Karoline Knutsen, who says that there is such a difference in the care of the elderly in the municipalities. It's because we already have a system where local politicians govern, and you're guided by the resources and resources you have, and that's a big difference. This is precisely why the government now wants to test out a state funding mechanism to see if it is possible to get a more equal offer and a better offer to users of care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e672	This message is a formidable uplift and completely exceptional in emphasising competences in primary health services. For one who has devoted much of his life to education, it is a pleasure to see the footprint that competence development has received. The Communication focuses on the education of health professionals, competence requirements in law, skills sharing, research and innovation. Municipal health and care services are highly staff-intensive services, and the quality of the service depends on the quality and qualifications, knowledge and attitudes of the person performing the service. I really wish we were more concerned with it than with the number of people. It is actually the qualifications of the persons who are essential. Good competence at the right level, in the right place and at the right time is a good prerequisite for safe, good and efficient services. Practice today needs to be based to a much greater extent on competence and research. It's a pretty exciting message. It's forward-looking. It opens up the possibility for professional groups that increase their competence to extend their scope. When considering whether selected groups may be granted extended rights, inter alia. prescribing medicines and medical consumables on blue prescription, and considering whether more than one group should be referred to other services, is what we can see in the future. But that means that we also focus on competence. I am particularly pleased that the Committee points out that nurses with increased clinical competence can have an expanded and new role in municipal health and care. This will be followed up by the fact that the department now looks at the continuing training at the master level, which is adapted to the needs of the municipal care service. This shall initially apply to nurses and several groups will follow. But this is new and groundbreaking. Development of competences is not self-evident, and it is gratifying that the Government of Prop 1 S has presented an action plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in the care service. If the health service of the future is to be developed, we need a much larger element of research and innovation, and user involvement needs to be more present, we need to get the good results. I look forward to the government launching the follow-up to the Health Care21 strategy, which will provide an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e689	The team is nothing new," said the representative Grung in his post. Well, there are probably more things in this message that are not new. But what's new is that for the first time we have a comprehensive plan on primary health services in the municipalities. That's what's so fun today. The challenge is that there is too much variation between municipalities. There is too much variation in services, and there is too much variation in the way services are organised, and patients are also affected in some municipalities. As others have been involved, it is frustration. They're talking about fragmented services. I don't think users use words like 'fragmented services', but they wonder a little about who's responsible, and where they're going, to use a more popular language. Non-infectious diseases are probably the biggest health challenge of our time. The prevention, detection, treatment, mastering and rehabilitation of this disease group is very important. These include the prevention of latecomplications, which in turn place a particular burden on primary health services. Diabetes is one of the greatest health challenges of our time, and therefore it is very gratifying that the parties of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right now decide to develop a diabetes plan. It is a long-awaited action for which the Diabetes League has been fighting for a long time, and here we should thank our friends in both the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party for good cooperation on that matter. Several new, good measures are being promoted in different size reports. Several of these are contained in messages that we have adopted or are to be adopted. It's important to see these in context. The major public health messages that the Ministry of Health and Health has provided are in many ways the superstructure we have for health policy into the future. What's a context here is that there are too many variations and too many coincidences in today's health care system. But we see improvements. The queues are going down, and the waiting times are going down. Prevention is important. This is where the greatest responsibility lies for the individual, but we also need to put prevention in place. But we must not underestimate the value of the voluntary sector here. Health and prevention depend on voluntary work, and within many disease groups patient organisations do a very important job. One of the key elements of this Communication is increased competence, better interaction and prevention. We go away from a professionally neutral approach and are clear about the requirements for local authorities' services. This will, of course, put pressure on the municipalities, but it is now that they are our main player in the local health service. This Communication increases the level of ambition, in particular in terms of competence, which will increase the need for cooperation between municipalities. Then it's worth remembering that we have a municipal structure that has remained largely unchanged in the last 50 years. It has not taken into account changes in population structure, transport and new, more advanced tasks in the health care of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e715	Several have been involved in this with a municipal structure, and the Council of State said in its contribution that the staging message about the primary health services and the grossing-up message about the new municipal structure are Siamese twins. Being a Siamese twin is an innate felony, so I thought that comparison was in line with that. It's a misconception that you can't succeed in developing good community health services without getting bigger municipalities. The same concerns and the same points of view came from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left when we adopted the interaction reform. And then they said that we couldn't bring this in until we got bigger municipalities. Then I'd like to ask, what municipalities have received the ready-to-print patients? Which municipalities have introduced municipal emergency beds? What municipalities have created local medical centres? In which municipalities does one have the most satisfied users of health care services? Which actually works best with the fixed medical system? Where do they often have the best medical procedures in hospitals? - Yes, in smaller municipalities. There are no significant differences in quality between large and small municipalities, and I believe that this is the opposite. So I thought we should stop giving the impression that there is today a poor provision of health and care services in the small municipalities. I didn't think those who work there, and who do a very good job, need to hear it from us who are responsible for creating good health and care services where they live. The requirement for a community reform to provide a better and wider professional environment is for a change in the construction pattern in Norway. There is nothing more local than caring for the elderly, which is a large part of this message. There is nothing more local than, for example: open care. Obviously, the service supply has to go out where people live. The centre party is concerned that we should have equivalent health services in this country, and when you add to a reform that basically has centralisation as something at the bottom, it would threaten the good service provision that we have in Norway and that has a high quality service provision in the smallest municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e724	Just a few words to something that came up in this debate. First, to the representative Ketil Kjenseth, who spoke of stopwatching versus trust reform, a trust reform that has been tried, among other things. in the Netherlands, to which the representative has referred in other contexts. Trust reform means putting services together in a different way. One has the same resources, is closer to recipients and users, has more continuity throughout the service offer, and those in the first line are more responsible to the recipients. In fact, there is a lot in relation to what this message is about, namely that you have to work in teams. It's nothing worse than that, and I think it will provide a much better, more close and good service for those who are recipients. I think it's very exciting what to start in Oslo, and also in my hometown, Tromsø. This means saying no to the privatisation and commercialisation of these services, because to get that trust reform, you have to work and think differently. The municipality must have the overall responsibility. So to the representative Hoksrud, who talked about differences between municipalities. As I stressed in my article, differences in care for the elderly are not always linked to the fact that it is the largest and richest municipalities that have the best care for the elderly. In fact, there are many small and not so prosperous municipalities that have good services for the elderly, a good care and care for the elderly. Then we think that we need to balance the provision of good funding for these services with the closeness of the municipality to the services they provide to their citizens. A priced financing that is overrun by the state is not the right way to do it, but one can imagine a balance where one has, for example, a balance sheet. an ear-marked sector grant – it's a bit related to model No. two which the Contracting Party and the Government have put to the test. But what we're getting feedback from the municipalities and the rapporteurs that I've been talking to is that they don't have the courage to go out on this, because if they get model number. 1, as such a test cloth, they will lose all control with some of the most important services provided by the municipality, and they are not worthy of that – that is, balancing the provision of good services and being close to, as the municipalities must be, and having secure funding for all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e731	I must also make a very small visit to the representative Kjeseth for the claim that a settlement with the stopwatch care would lead to longer waiting lists. It seemed to me to be the original one, and I would like to receive some evidence that it has happened. Trust reform is about the opposite. It's about using the time that's already for user distribution in a better way. It's not about more resources, it's about using resources in a better way, and it's about creating a care that's more on users' premises. Trust reform is not an idea we have picked up from loose air, but something that has been done in Copenhagen in the municipal care service there, with very good results – more satisfied older, more satisfied employees, more satisfied residents, with no increased costs and no longer waiting lists. I would recommend the representative, Mr Kjeseth, to consider how the trust reform works in Copenhagen, and we will get a more detailed example when the new Oslo City Council does the same here. So I just want to say that I think the Council's answer to my question in the reply was really clarifying. I'm a little surprised that it hasn't happened before. So the security standard is the government's acceptance of the point of norm/guidance on the government platform. I find it a little strange that the government parties write in the recommendation that "a standard/advisor for staffing and quality in the care sector" be established, because what the department has said about this standard is that it should be about good management, organisation and professional practice – but not about increased staffing. I interpret it in such a way that the dispute matter of the Advance Party on crew standards has been cancelled. I think it is sad because, for once, I think that the Progress Party has a good fight which should be carried out. However, there is nothing in the submission of this safety standard to indicate that a crew standard is to be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e738	One can listen to the tone of this debate on an important message that this is a topic where the size across party boundaries, party groups and government constellations is far on the way agreeing on what the Council of State nicely calls the target image for what it looks like now and forward. And that's good. Nevertheless, government parties have a very strong need to make it clear that it is the first time, they say – in history, almost – that a message has been made about primary health services in their entirety. It's possible in the form it's presented now, and I'm giving honey to what's good here. I'll comment on some things in the end. The government is right in saying that this is largely based on a much more radical reform, I would say, a much more far-reaching reform, namely the interaction reform from six to seven years ago. It was about the fundamental concept of not having a specialist healthcare service operating at one level, regardless of what was going on in the municipalities, that a vertical, integrated healthcare service was to a greater extent to see the light of day. Did we succeed? No, of course you can discuss that, but at least you're on it. What this message addresses is more the internal, horizontal interaction in a municipality – which I very much agree that there is a great need – that is too fragmented. I think it is good that some of what we have been concerned about is not going to happen, says now also councillor Höie in the hall should not happen. It is the decision that should remain the hub of the follow-up teams, and you should not establish new silos on the outside of what actually works. That's very good. Several points point out that there are considerable differences in quality between municipalities and that it is difficult to compare what kind of offer the individual user or patient can expect or get in a municipality. Tove Karoline Knutsen is quite right when she says that there are dividing lines across so-called rich, large and small. Yeah, it's going on across the board. Does this message solve that problem? No, not by itself, until it's the problems and challenges too big. It's about manning. There have been several people who have been busy. It is about the introduction of new technologies, in addition to pilot projects in individual municipalities, on a large scale, together with the development and organisation of services in a completely different way, where technology, way of working on and working together and teaming together. It has to be developed further, and the Workers' Party has started a bigger work on what we're not done with, but we hope that this can be the starting point for just that. Finally, I just want to state once and for all that being for a professional neutral law is not the same as not being concerned with a competence and quality-based law. I think the government parties had benefited from listening to the overwhelming majority of hearings that say the same thing as the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e751	First: I think the representative Lighthouse should relax a little when he is afraid of the standard of living in the care of the elderly. It's something that is now being worked on, which the Council of State also made clear. But it is very pleasant that the Lighthouse, which was opposed to this for eight years, has suddenly become so after he got out of the government offices. It is good that there is some sparkle for you when you come outside of government offices and out into the real world and look around, because I fully agree that there are major challenges to the manning of the elderly. I've looked at all the trips I've been on, and that's why the government is working on it, and it's part of the government platform. It is a bit fun to listen to the representative Lightbakken, because in most cases the Lightbaken is trying to stand on the side of the municipalities and local politicians and is concerned that local democracy must be allowed to rule and decide, but at the moment local politicians and local democracy do not do what the Lightbaken wants them to do, such as. with the school health service, the same Light Hill shall come here and override these local politicians who do not do what the Light Hill thinks they should do. Then it's better to do as we say, for example. with the care of the elderly, where you see it as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen and others say that there are big differences out there. It's been in the eight years that the last government set up. That's some of what we actually want to do now, and that's why we come to a new trial plan with fresh funds. I happen to be also on the local council, and when the matter was taken up in my local council, the local council voted the proposal down, of course, with 17 to 16 votes, with the Labour Party and the red-green parties in a majority. But after the vote, several workers' party representatives got away and said they were sorry, because they would actually support the proposal. Obviously, the Labour Party is not able to vote in favour of good proposals in a number of municipalities, you have to vote against, because you don't like what comes from a different political point of view than what you represent. That's sad, because that means that the inhabitants of my municipality, Bamble, get 9.9 million. kr less to care for the elderly than they could have been given if they had been given the opportunity to participate in this government's pilot scheme. There's something the Progress Party has been busy getting in place. I think it's a little sad to hear that you're very concerned about the differences, that you want to do something about the differences, but that you have no solution to how to do something about the differences. At least we believe that we have a solution and propose a solution, but someone at any cost will vote against it. It's a shame, because this solution would give more money to care for the elderly around the municipalities, who are struggling, and thereby also better staffing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e763	Competence is good. It's both right and important. Interdisciplinaryity is also right and correct. But competence is about something more than theory and master's degrees for the Christian People's Party, although it's also right and important. Competence is about suitability, about understanding and seeing, and not least about drying up so that other professionals can do the job better than you do yourself. But quality is about something more than people with the right skills. Quality is also about the fact that the people around the patients have time – time to see, time to hear, time to build trust. Time creates security, time builds trust, time builds relationships, which are central to helping us understand what the real problem is. This was clearly stated in the Health Committee last week by those who are health professionals in mental health. Those kids said, "It doesn't help much if we go to many when no one sees." The opening of the health station door when it is closed is of little help. It helps little when you have gained some trust and the law does not follow and others, who are not going to know, are told. Therefore, this message does not become fully good. It's very good, but we have to be able to follow up with a law that can make it so that we can actually get a full service for patients, where patients – from small to old – are sure that someone sees. It's about more people, too. Competence raising alone can't create space on time, space for people to see. Then we also have to hire more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e776	There was a small municipal debate about this. The representative, Toppe, was concerned that many small municipalities are operating very well. That is probably right – otherwise it should just be missing. If you look at transfers and free money per capita, they have a lot more to do. Which municipalities receive the most in per capita transfers? We had a debate about this when I was a group leader at home in Haugesund. When we compared the municipality of Bokn with the municipality of Karmøy and the municipality of Haugesund, and had received the same in free income, we had received between 50 and 60 million. kr extra each year. We could get a lot of good health out of that. I said in a debate on local television that we could have either an extra nursing home this year, or we could choose to gild all the church spires, or we could have a free bar in the nursing homes. We could do so much extra for the hospitals in Haugesund if we had got the same thing as the small municipalities – but we don't. So if you're going to compare small municipalities and large municipalities in terms of service level, you also have to be willing to look at how much money you get in transfers from the state. When we first come up with this topic: Which municipalities are most struggling to obtain stable medical coverage? Where is it reported that one has 40–50 different municipal doctors in a few years? Where does a large million-dollar amount of money go to get doctors who are not trained in Norway at all? It is good when municipalities work together for the best for the inhabitants, but I am of the opinion that the municipalities must be so large that they are able to meet the needs of the future for the inhabitants. I am also concerned about the possibility for small municipalities to build good environments of competence, on which the representative, Olaug V. Bollestad, was in. It takes time to build trust, and it also takes time to build up local competence. When we first talk about trust, I have a lot of respect for SV, and because they want a different policy than me. That's how it is in this game. But I would encourage SV to think a little through the use of the word ‘trust’ for employees. In the private sector, there are a number of employees. In fact, there are more private sector employees in Norway than in the public sector. It may seem that those who work in the private sector have different values, different grades and different lifestyles than those who work in the public sector. I'm actually getting a little closer to it. We who have worked in the private sector are not there because we are malicious capitalists and want to enrich ourselves with community benefits. We are there because we want to do a good job, together with our colleagues, for our customers and our users. It is universal, whether one is employed in the private sector or in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e789	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e792	Kjersti Toppe claims that talking about municipal reform is talking about the small municipalities down. I'll say the opposite. It is talking about the inhabitants and the employees of the municipalities, and it is to want them to get the best offer and the best skills possible. Recruitment will be a challenge in the future and it is already today. We're looking at how we strive to solve child protection and welfare technology problems. Tope has no answer to how to get better recruitment in small environments. In the future it will be influenced by temporary solutions and temporary loops. It does not guarantee quality in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e797	I have said this before, including in this Chamber, that it is always interesting to listen when socialist colleagues talk about the outsourcing of competition and privatisation in the care of the elderly. I hope they know the difference, but I understand the need for it to be much easier to talk about it all together. I'm not afraid of competitive outsourcing. I am much more afraid of unification, the limitation of freedom of choice and the much less diversity we get if we don't dare to let private people go and develop health and care services. Inside the hall, the private providers of care are manufactured in a completely different way from how I experience the committee when we are out and see it in practice. We were together at the Mangle Home, a private actor who has an appointment with the Municipality of Oslo, and I think we all agreed on delivering high-quality dementia care, focusing on each patient, meeting their needs and providing close, warm care. The entire philosophy of the private Manglery Home is derived from the Hoveyk, the village of dementia in the Netherlands, where the Committee has also been. We were over us with enthusiasm – at least I was – about what they did down there. For us who are more concerned that the patient should receive good services than for whom the service is provided, it is good to see that Oslo Municipality measures quality. Since 2010, they have been measuring on quality. Privates deliver about as good quality as the ideals and significantly better than the municipals. That's what you're trying to say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It was also interesting to hear Knutsen and Lysbakken talk about trust reform and refer to the Buurtsorg model, the neighbourhood health care in the Netherlands, run by a private company that has won large parts of these services. They started with four nurses in one team. Today, there are 8 000 nurses distributed over many countries. It is commercial and incredibly exciting news, and it is quite clear that it works well. In these debates when we are discussing care for the elderly, it is quite clear who are the politicians of the system. I am very happy to belong to that part of Norwegian policy that is the patient's politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e808	The representative, Audun Lysbakken, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e811	The last one was probably a good example of such things as – what to say – making the debate simpler rather than clearer. What we disagree about is what kind of instruments provide good services for patients. Our objection to commercialisation is simply that we do not want tax credits to disappear from our health and care services and go to profits in commercial companies. We think there will be more money to care for not doing it. It's an honest disagreement, but what it's about is how we get the most out of the money. Then I can assure the representative Hoksrud that I have not intended to relax. We are here to work hard, and I intend to work hard for increased staff in the care of the elderly. I am pleased that the representative of Hoksrud now thinks it is sparkly in SV's policy. When I said what I said instead, it was because I flipped back and looked at the presentation from the Department of Safety. There's nothing to say that increased crewing is the goal. So if that's what this is about, I think the department is not communicating well -- as a little criticism of the information department there in the last turn of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e820	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e823	Here it was about trust. I have to say that I trust people who do honest work, for example. in the care of the elderly, wherever they are employed. But when we talk about privatisation, that's exactly what the representative Lightbakken is talking about: that for the last 10–15 years, we've got the big, very commercial groups into this service. I have been to NOVA in Oslo and have seen the research that has been presented, which shows what happens when one gets the big commercialization and the large groups into the care of the elderly. The councils were inside, too. This research shows quite unambiguous results. We have to make sure that the money goes the shortest way to those who need it. Then they cannot go into the accounts of the major international groups. That's what it's all about, not about the people who work in the ministry. There are many good people who have good ideas, who work in these services, whether it's a private owner, or whether it's municipal. But we want the money and resources to go the shortest way to those who want the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e828	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e831	I hear it is okay for the Workers' Party and SV to have confidence in private entrepreneurs as long as they are in the Netherlands or in Denmark, while in Norway it is packed as trust. And then we can show the private actors the door. I think Norlandia has contributed to the Norwegian care sector with the knowledge they have from hotel operations. They probably have something to pick up from the care and care department, but I have seen better medical coverage in a Norlandia nursing home than I have seen in my own municipality, where the Workers' Party operates the nursing homes, and where the medical coverage is marginal. As far as the stopwatch is concerned, there's no ambition for the Left to use it, but we all know that there are tough priorities, and that's the resources we're talking about. I trust that leaders who are set up to do so will take advantage of the opportunities they have. I have seen a lot of care from within, and I have not seen anyone with a stopwatch. But that one must give priority to a busy everyday life, that is quite clear. That is what the debate is about, and it is also about what Sveinung Stensland was about, the distribution between small and large municipalities. And the municipalities that were reformed in 1964 have had a significant efficiency potential that the small municipalities have not received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e839	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e842	Yes, I think both the Lighthouse and everyone else in this room is working a lot and hard – and that's good. But I record that the Lighthouse has not wanted to respond to the example of Trondheim, which is a red-green exhibition window – at least they have tried to be a red-green exhibition window – although I see that it has started to fade quite a lot. I record that he will not say anything about his attitude that he should override the politicians in Trondheim, who then choose not to use the money to improve the school health service, which is important, and SV is concerned that one should override if the municipalities do not use it and earmark these funds. But he won't answer that, and that's okay, because it's a signal that it might not mean that much when there are red-green municipalities that make the mistakes. I can see errors in the vast majority of residents in the municipal sector when it comes to care for the elderly. We have major challenges, and that's why the government is trying to do something about it by making new concrete proposals on how to solve it with state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e847	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e850	A little comment on Right Stensland and Ørmen Johnsen on municipal structure: it is that people are most content with the provision of health and care in small municipalities, and that they have often come the longest to implement the interaction reform. Then the representative of Stensland says that it's not strange, because they get more money, and we have to look at the transfers from the state. Yes, of course, this has to do with local economy, and with its arrangement, both large and small municipalities will have more money to do with health than they get today, including Haugesund. And that's not a problem, it must never be a problem that small municipalities are actually doing good health and care today. That one has to cut at the expense of the small municipalities because they have to drive a little worse is to turn it upside down. When it comes to recruitment, there are recruitment difficulties in all municipalities. I know Bergen well. They have a very serious problem recruiting nurses in central hospitals in large municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e857	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e860	The representative Toppe is trying to give the impression that with their arrangements, the group of 13 municipalities will get the same amount of transfers as the small municipalities. I just have to be allowed to correct that. Because if they might get something more, they're not near the bias we see today, and I think it's wrong that medium-sized municipalities, which I myself worked hard for when I was in Haugesund City Council, should all the way be compared to small municipalities, which get a significantly better transfer per capita. It is one of the major issues in the municipal debate: Should we, who live in medium-sized municipalities, accept that our citizens get significantly less than the smallest municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e865	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e879	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e886	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined the representative proposal of the Landfill Representatives Kjersti Toppe and Jenny Klinge to strengthen the midwifery service in Norwegian municipalities. In the case, the midwife service in the municipalities is described as very important for good maternity, maternity and maternity care and as the arena for preventive public health work for mother and children. It is noted that in recent years there has been an agreement in the Grand Duchy to strengthen maternity, maternity and maternity care. The Health Directorate’s guidelines on maternity care recommend follow-up in midwives, doctors or both. This means that follow-up in midwifery should be a real alternative for all pregnant women. The proposers indicate that this is not the situation in many municipalities today with so few jobs per municipality and a great deal of variation in the offer across the country. The proposers refer to low land murder rates in municipalities, too low for the midwife service to meet the expectations of the Storting decision and the Health Directorate's professional guidelines for maternity and maternity care. The Committee's position is presented with proposals from two different minorities, proposals that will be presented in the further debate. For the Workers' Party, family policy is important. Good maternity care is an important and proper investment to promote health when a new life and a new family start. A good midwife service provides basic services in maternity, maternity and maternity care and provides prevention and health promotion. As the proposers rightly point out, there has been a great deal of political consensus on the importance of the midwifery service. However, it has not led to the expansion of the municipal midwife service that corresponds to the expectations of both the people out there and we in this room have of what this service is going to accomplish. The lack of midwives and the potential of a better community service is well documented. To put it simply: the good, safe midwife who burns to follow up on emerging mothers and new families, she or he I must say, because there are male midwives too, is in many municipalities an utopia. I've been told about municipalities where you get an hour at midwife's house only so late in pregnancy that the child is almost ready to meet the world. Municipal Report has surveyed that nearly 200 municipalities lack midwifery. It is important to look at the funding mechanism for the midwifery service. The need for it has been raised in Stortinget for many years. The midwives have also been given a number of new tasks in recent years, such as the detection of violence and abuse, the identification of home conditions, the detection of drug use and drug use, to name a few. The Committee has just addressed the primary health message – and I think it is. The midwife is referred to as an important subject for good and safe maternity care, but there are also new expectations on the midwives. An overall committee notes that at all stages of life women will be able to benefit from extending their field of work to midwives. This obliges magnification and government. We have to get more midwives into the municipalities. Governments must start this work. With this, I would like to promote the proposal of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party in the vote, where the government is asked to return to the Stortinget with proposals that can improve the quality and capacity of the midwifery in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e907	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e910	Strengthening the midwife service is one of the many measures taken by the government to improve municipal health and care services, as the debate we started here today showed. The debate on the primary health communication gives a good picture that the government delivers in several areas – including the midwife service in the municipalities – which is entirely in line with one of the many objectives of the government platform. This government strengthens the health promotion and prevention work in the municipalities. Pregnancy and maternity care, which is one of the tasks normally performed by midwives, is a central part of this work and is mainly related to the health care establishment. At the same time, a majority of pregnant women have one or more consultations with their permanent staff. The Communication on the primary health service of the future proposes to legislate on the competence requirements of the Health and Welfare Services Act. We do this because the government considers some competences so essential for the municipal health and care service that they should be identified by law. The legislative framework includes, for example, both midwife and health-sister competence. As has already been said, the initiative on maternity and maternity control is a central part of the government’s efforts to strengthen the health promotion and prevention work in municipalities. During that work, pregnant women must be kept safe and well followed in-flight during pregnancy. At the same time, midwives will be important actors in the prevention of public health – not only towards mother and child, but also towards teenagers and young people. The Communication proposes several measures in the field of children and young people from 0 to 19 years of age. It is also proposed to continue to strengthen health centre and school health services. In this strengthening, midwifery will be an important part of the community’s team building in connection with health and school health services, together with, among others. health care provider, psychologist and permanent staff — depending on how each municipality chooses to organise itself. As I said, the government has already taken important steps to strengthen the role of midwives and health sisters. Together with our supporting parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have proposed that health sisters and midwives be given the right to prescribe all types of hormonal prevention and copper spiral, regardless of the place of employment. The regulation was adopted in the spring of 2015 and will enter into force on 1 January 2016. This is a prevention measure that will make all types of prevention more accessible to all women, with the help of, among other things, good use of the drug. a midwife. The government has also announced that it will promote a youth health strategy and that a comprehensive sexual health strategy will be established. Although the strategy will have a life-cycle perspective, actions aimed at children, young people and young adults will be an important area in which midwives will also play an important role. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government strengthened the health and school health services by 180 million. kr in the budget for 2014. KOSTRA figures show that the strengthening has an impact and that municipalities are doing well to strengthen the service. In the 2015 budget, we followed up with a new 270 million. kr, a further increase of 200 million is proposed. kr through the municipality framework for 2016. With this marked investment of 650 million. kr so far, there should be good opportunities for municipalities to strengthen also the capacity of midwives in the important provision to be made by health centre and school health services. So finally, when it comes to changing the funding scheme for the midwife service, the Minister of Health writes to the Committee in his letter that it is important to see the municipal services in the context and that he will return to the Stortinget with a more comprehensive funding of the health and care service after the Stortinget has decided how to report. St. 26 for 2014-2015, the primary health service of the future – proximity and wholeness, must be followed up. Then it's just to make sure that the Council of State comes with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e931	There has been a consensus in the UK on several occasions in recent years to strengthen maternity, maternity and maternity care. Thus, the five proposals of the Centre Party do not represent any revolutionary new, but are an indication of the importance of the midwifery service in the municipalities. I will not spend time on the individual proposals here, but I would point out that the proposers point out that the lay time in Norwegian food departments has fallen over several years, and the proposers point out that short lay time in maternity wards in a hospital, without planned and professionally good follow-up at home, may be a risk to patient safety. In particular, midwives have crucial skills in mother and child. Many pregnant and birthing people today are well informed and good at obtaining information about much of what they are asking about. Several also express the desire to get home quickly, and several travel home the same day and the day after birth – at their own request. This freedom of choice wants the Advance Party to let women have. When they are discharged from the hospital, they are followed up by a midwife and a health station in the home municipality, and first-time birthers get a lot of home visits. The health centre is a lowthreshold facility, which makes it easy for newly-baked mothers and fathers to visit and contact the health centre. Pregnancy and maternity care is a central part of government’s efforts to strengthen health promotion and prevention in municipalities. Pregnants shall receive a safe and good follow-up during pregnancy. The primary health message, which we have just discussed, proposes a number of measures in the field of children and young people from 0 to 19 years of age, among others. a strengthening of health centre and school health services. In addition, it is proposed to legislate on requirements for midwifery competence in the Health and Welfare Services Act. Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left Reinforced Health Station and School Health Services together with 455 million. kr through the municipal framework in 2014 and 2015 and has proposed a further increase of 200 million. kr through the municipality framework in 2016. I ask the Central Party to remind its local politicians to use these funds to do just that. In addition, in terms of full-time use, I point out that the government is working in line with the objectives of the government platform to reduce the use of involuntary public sector part-time and temporary work. Allowing people to work part-time on a voluntary basis has nothing to do with weakening the work environment law, such as the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party later to repeat to the boring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e950	The Christian People's Party would like to thank the Centre Party for a good proposal to strengthen the midwife service in Norwegian municipalities, not least to make use of the competences of midwives. For the Christian People's Party, it is important and right that we use the midwives for both good pregnancy controls, during birth and in maternity care, as well as that we use them in preventive work, especially when everyone has said that we want to do something about the large abortions and unwanted pregnancies. That's why the Christian People's Party is very happy with the law that the midwives get to be with just to prevent – and not just to give prevention, but also to guide in another way. Municipalities are small and large. People live in districts and cities. Some women will need a good and safe follow-up service in the ambulance at birth, precisely because the distances are incredibly large. In some places it is both nice and good that cooperation between the accompanying services provided by midwives in the ambulance and hospitation/rolling at the nearest local hospital with the maternity ward is a key element in ensuring good responsibilities in accompanying services at all times. This is what the Christian People's Party thinks we can further develop. The reality is that mother and children are being printed out of hospitals more quickly. It's not that it's always the woman who can decide it. That's how the hospital, the local health company, decided. I was signed, when this came, as rapporteur in the municipality that had the youngest population in the country. We were not fully prepared for the birthers to come out after one to two days. That means that we need to have a good municipal service, which is able to meet the woman and the child at a much earlier time, and which has the ability to see the challenge of mother and not least of young people. We have to think differently about vaccination, about syringes, etc., than we have done before. We want to be in this for both mother and child. When the government is now looking at the tariff system, something that the Christian People's Party is pleased about, the Christian People's Party still sends out a clear signal that this is urgent, not least to get this in place for the midwives, so that the municipalities can't stop using the midwives as a central piece of primary health service in the municipality for money: the midwives don't get the fare they should actually get, and then choose to use other professional groups in the service that the midwives could have performed. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we have proposed to earmark 500 million. kr to health centre and school health service. That means that the midwives have to be part of this. When we've chosen to earmark our budget, it's because we don't think we've come far enough to get enough midwives and health sisters in place to have a good service. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to get more midwives around in our municipalities, and, not least, also in 100 p.m. positions. One way to ensure quality and updating at any time can be to roll positions – combination positions – between municipalities and hospitals. It will provide a much more coherent service. And if there's something that's consistent, then it's birth and childbirth -- a borner in a hospital, and one has maternity time in a municipality. Then a coordinator can coordinate this service. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e969	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e972	In Document 8:121 S for 2010–2011 from the representatives of the depositors Sonja Irene Sjøli, Bent Höie, Øyvind Halleraker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Elisabeth Aspaker, a proposal was made that: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the rate scheme for midwives and to find other more effective measures to stimulate the strengthening of the midwifery service in the municipalities.’ The government party has also said in the platform that the midwife's capacity should be increased in the municipalities, so I'm disappointed that one – when one was so ready in the opposition, and when one is so ready in the government platform – did not meet us on any of the proposals and indicates that one has seen a great deal of work being done in connection with the primary health report on the financing of all health services in the municipalities, when we want to lift up the midwife's supply because we see that here it really is urgent. According to the guidelines of the Health Directorate for the Welfare of Pregnancy, women should be able to choose whether to follow up with a midwife or with a doctor. The midwife service was legalised in 1995, but everyone is aware that the supply is too poor, so there is a big gap between expectations and availability. Several people are talking about a decline in the maternity wards. There are new guidelines for maternity care where one should go more on home visits. It is a proper and important development, but it has led to the presence of midwives in the municipalities. We also want midwives to do preventive health work. For example, it's our cross-political excitement that it's desirable that you have these early lifestyle conversations when you come to the interview. midwives have been granted permission to write and are also required by Stortinget to do a job of discovering the power of choice in close relationships. All of this is important, but then it requires that there are midwives in the municipalities. SSB figures show that there are 0.7 midwives per municipality. It is nearly 200 municipalities that do not have a municipal land mother. There are 60,000 pregnant in Norway every year – 300 midwiferies to ‘serve’ these. Many people point out that we have a strengthening of health centres and school health services. It can also go to midwives. However, experience shows that there is hardly any increase – while one has received an increase in annual work of 112 from 2013 to 2014 at the school health service and health centre, there is a 9 year increase for midwives in that year, and things are going too slow. For funding: today it pays for municipalities to send pregnant women to doctors instead of to midwives, because the fare system is different. So we're forced to change the funding. I agree with what the government party meant in 2010–2011, and we also went into a plural comment in that setting – I was the spokesman for that matter – and we met each other. Now I thought it's been so many years that we can't evaluate this anymore, now we're actually just going to have to make sure. In our proposal we have also been concerned that there are very small job breaks in the positions among midwives, and we need to make sure that we get a change on that. In proposal No 4 we propose a strategy for increasing the use of full-time settings among midwives. We're supported by the SV and the Christian People's Party, and I think that's very good. We also have a proposal to secure the challenge capacity, which is also supported by SV and the Christian People's Party. Then there's a suggestion the Labour Party has made with, among other things. The centre party, and it gets support from the entire opposition outside the Left – which comes at the tip and could decide that we could get a case on this with measures to ensure an increase in the coverage of midwives in the municipalities. I think the suggestions are coming up, so I won't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e996	The midwife service is very important for good maternity, maternity and maternity care in the municipalities. That is why I am pleased that the Central Party is raising this issue through its proposal today. Fortunately, the proposals are well taken care of by the escalation that is already underway. For many years, the Left has wanted a stepping-up plan for its health stations to strengthen the access of all pregnant women to midwife services. We know that it is very important that mother and child succeed in bonding, and that a safe connection for the child has a major impact on the health of the child. I am concerned that many mothers who struggle with pregnancy depression or breast-feeding problems, and mothers who may be subjected to violence, are not caught early enough when the capacity of the municipalities is not good enough. A good start for the child is perhaps the most important thing we can make to succeed in what is fully agreed – that we need to get in early to prevent both physical and mental illness. It's not a question of whether we can afford such a escalation in this field. We're not allowed to leave. The consequences of a bad start in life can be great in the long term. When numbers from the Health Directorate show that mental disorders cost us 184 billion. kr, it goes without saying that it is important that we strengthen efforts at health stations and midwifery services. I believe that the health centre is our most important prevention arena, and therefore the Left will continue to work to strengthen this area for many years to come. Through our work towards the government, we have succeeded in strengthening the appropriations for health centres every year. This is something we're going to continue with. We will also encourage every left-wing politician in the municipalities to ensure that the money is spent on purpose, in the municipalities. I note that the Central Party will have ear tagging as an instrument in local democracy. For the Left, local politicians are the ones to make the priorities local. So far, we have made sure that 455 million is allocated. kr more in 2014 and 2015, and a further reinforcement we put on in 2016 for the school health service and health station. So we're in the middle of an escalation. I recognize that it's a bit of a goal. It is probably also because the municipalities are both struggling to recruit and have other needs they give priority to the funds. Introducing a whip is not necessarily a faster way to the goal. midwives also have many other important tasks. They include: a key role in the work on sexual and reproductive health, which includes women’s health in a life-cycle perspective, maternity, maternity and childhood health. Both the public health message, the primary health message, which we have discussed today, and the notified youth health strategy will focus on these important first-line services in the municipalities. I am therefore pleased that there is a great deal of agreement to build up and strengthen health and midwifery in the municipalities. Finally, I record that the Left is alone in wanting an experiment with a five-year integrated midwife training. We believe that there is a need to think about new and to get to new types of education in the midwifery. Today, you have to have a three-year nursing education to become a midwife. So it's, as I've pointed out earlier in the post, so that midwives work in several different functions, and especially with the early efforts. So not everyone is in the birthplace. I think we should focus on countries that have introduced five-year-old professional masters. At least we can try and learn from it. So many people are going to work in the primary health service, and the prevention perspective and the early effort we think are something to include in overall midwife education. So here we have a way to go, many possibilities. A lot of money is allocated, and we're on our way in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1011	Pregnancy and maternity care are an important part of the health promotion and prevention work in municipalities, and the government is committed to strengthening this work. However, the offer to pregnant women and their families is not determined by the capacity of the midwife offer alone. The provision of prospective parents and foster families needs to be seen in a broader context. In the big news about the primary health service of the future, which we have recently discussed, it is a key point that municipalities should be able to solve the problem in a more comprehensive way. Today, municipal health and care services are organised as separate services, often based on some occupational groups. This silo organisation is reflected in the language, where we talk about medical services, physiotherapy services, nursing services and midwife services. This is not the best way to meet the user's needs. New and flexible forms of work are needed which contribute to increased multi-disciplinary work. Most of the municipal midwives work in health and school health services. There is a desire for greater multilingualism in this service. It will be up to the municipalities, who know the people best, to organize this work well. The service has been significantly strengthened in recent years by a total of 455 million. kr in 2014 and 2015 and proposals for an additional 200 million. kr in 2016. The municipalities are on the right track, and they have good opportunities to relate to more midwives already this year if that's where the shoe prints. The health centre is responsible for all children and their parents from before the child is born and up to school age, and it has a great deal of upsurge in the population. Therefore, the health centre is a good foundation to build on when it comes to catching vulnerable users. For example, all maternity health professionals are responsible for asking pregnant women if they are or have been subjected to violence. The period of pregnancy, parturition and parturition is a vulnerable period in the lives of many women and many families. Competence in psychosocial prevention is therefore also important. However, especially in smaller municipalities, where there is no patient basis for recruiting professionals in all desirable professional groups, it will be important to find new forms of work and to make good use of available resources. It will also depend on today — you often cooperate across the municipal borders. The midwife's competence is among the core competencies the government has proposed that we legislate. The midwife has special competence throughout the period from pregnancy, birth to maternity and neonatal period. There is no doubt that there is a need for this competence in municipalities, also as a result of mother and children being formerly discharged from the birthplace. But the service does not have to be organised in the same way in all municipalities. Good systems and procedures for interaction with specialist health services are of great importance in ensuring good and safe services for users. Health regions and municipalities have made locally adapted plans to ensure adequate maternity, maternity and maternity care services in the regions. Many are waiting for an electronic health card for pregnant women. Electronic health cards for pregnant women are part of the National eHealth Action Plan 2014–2016, and we are now working with the Health Directorate to speed up the work. We also need to see services in the context of future funding. Most of the prevention activities are well-funded. At the same time, some occupational groups include: midwives, single prevention tasks financed by public security. The fact that something is well-funded and financed through the tariff system may affect the supply in different ways. I can assure you that we will take a closer look at this after the processing of the wholesale notification of the primary health service, which we completed today. I believe that the direction outlined in the Storing Communication, with greater emphasis on holistic approaches and financial instruments supporting this, is a good way to go in order to provide good and secure services to users in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1033	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1036	The Council of State gives a good description of the status quo and the objective of the service, which I think the whole hall shares. The Council of State also describes the need to come back with consideration and changes to the scheme, with a view to better coordination, greater multi-disciplinaryism and overall improvement of the service. Now, in the former role of parliamentarians, the Council of State itself has pointed out system improvements in particular to the tariff regime and requested an evaluation of it. Can the Council of State say something — at a slightly higher level of detail — about what he sees in improvements, so that we succeed in this unanimous aim of Stortinget to improve and strengthen the midwifery service in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1043	Of course, the quality of the service is not dependent on a review of the tariff system for midwives alone, but this is part of the issue, which we are fully aware of. We know that these tariffs don't work exactly the way they were supposed to, and this also has to do with other things than the general welfare regulations for midwifery. In the big message that we have recently discussed, we see that different tariff system devices do not necessarily contribute to the organisation and development of the services as we wish, and therefore we will start the follow-up of the gross domestic product now after processing, which will also affect this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1048	I will follow up on the first line: The Council says he will follow up on this with new funding, among other things. the midwife supply, as a follow-up to St. Meld. 26 for 2014-2015 on primary care. Now you have proposed the same thing yourself a few years ago, so I expect the Council of State to be impatient to ensure that this is done. My question is whether the Council of State can tell how long he sees the government going to use the new funding methods, which will also include the midwife service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1055	I cannot come at a time when the work has been completed today, but the work is now starting as a follow-up to the Storing Message. Then we haven't been quiet about the commitment that I, along with many others, had in Stortinget in the last period to improve the provision of midwifery in the municipalities, both through the changes that have now been made in this respect with prevention and the possibilities there, but also what we are doing in the concrete appropriations, which are now in Stortinget, in the draft budget of the year – three consecutive years. There we give municipalities greater opportunities to hire more midwives in health and school health, and it is important that it is also followed up by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1062	I understand that the Council of States cannot say exactly what time this work on new ways of financing has been completed. But I want to ask again whether he can suggest to Stortinget that this is something that will be done at any rate during this big time period, so that we know what we have to do in the follow-up, also with regard to the debate we had in the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1067	This is a work that starts now, and I can't say anything today about when we're done presenting different changes to the Storting. It's likely that some changes will come before others, but it's something that you're now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1072	The midwife service is an important part of women’s health, but there are also very many women working as midwives – and unfortunately too many in part-time positions. It is also a challenge that competence is spread, so the Norwegian midwife association made a very creative proposal for a while: they thought that a good solution would have been to combine positions in the specialist health service with the community health service. For some reason, it is mostly born at night, and this would reduce the wear and tear and challenge of job breaks, but also the transfer of skills. Then I see that the Council of State says that he can send out letters and invitations, etc., but what kind of action competence and power does the minister really have to do in such an important field?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1081	It is not the minister who employs the midwives neither in the municipalities nor in the specialist health services. But I think it's a very good idea, and we both have a very clear call to the specialist health service – and to the municipalities as well – that it's a good idea to look at how we can work together across the board. At the same time, we – and not least the Workers' Party – have had a strong commitment that we do not want part-time positions. This is a clever way to have part-time jobs, but then we also have to recognise that there will be more part-time jobs both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. So there's a completely different obvious answer to this question: It's understandable that it's not desirable to work in 30 pst. or 40 pst. position as a midwife in a municipality and therefore need fewer municipalities. So the most important strategy and follow-up to this proposal, which is also the centre party, is just to implement the government's municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1088	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1104	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1111	It is probably some of the people in Valdres who are taking part today in the negotiations in Stortinget. Too many people, it's a big day. Today, the Storting will give green light to build a new E16 between Bagn in South Aurdal and Bjørgo in North Aurdal. This is the second stage of the expansion between Fenhus and Baghdad. The first stage between Fønhus and Bakn was opened about a year ago, and we who have driven that route know that it is a pleasure to drive there. Now we have to move on. The way of the day between Bakn and Bjørgo is too bad. It is steep, it has fluctuated, and it is particularly problematic for heavy traffic and especially in winter. Today's road is 11 km. With a new road there will be an abbreviation, and a good part of the new road will be tunnel. The new road is to be partly tolled and, when the road between Bagn and Bjørgo is completed, the current bomb on the line between Fønhus and Bagn is moved approximately to the municipal border between South Aurdal and North Aurdal. Meg is familiar with the traffic on the new road between Fønhus and Bakn more with a bomb than what traffic was on the old road without a bomb. This may indicate that the road will be paid more quickly than planned. That is good, and therefore one must also start the new road between Bakn and Bjørgo, which is planned for 2020. It is only reasonable to look at the calculation technical interest rate on toll loans, both on this project and on other projects. A unanimous increase is going to give that signal today to the Minister of Transport and the Government. It's good, so to get a lower interest rate, because now the interest rate is significantly lower than what it was before. If traffic increases, which looks like it's doing on E16 through Valdres, here we can both get lower bomb rates and faster downtime. That's good. In the 1990s, E16 was chosen by Valdres as a route between the East and the West. E16 is a winter-proof connection between east and west – or between west and east, as one says in the West. A lot is done with E16, and more needs to be done. The File Mountain project is on its way. Recently, the State Road Administration presented proposals for a regulatory plan for the route Turtnes-Øye in Vang – I think it was actually yesterday. There is a need for further upgrading through Valdres. There is a need for a better road between Sandvika and Hønefoss, and a new road must be built between Voss and Bergen. So there's still a lot to do on the E16, and that's not the last time we have cases from the E16 to treatment in the Storting, fortunately. But today it is about South Aurdal and North Aurdal and the route Bagn–Bjørgo, and the message to Valdres today from the Stortinget is: Start – build a new road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1124	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good and tidy presentation of the case. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes the development and financing of E16 on the Bakn–Bjørgo route in Uppland. This is the second stage in the construction of E16 between Fønhus and Bjørgo in the municipalities of South and North Aurdal. The route, as mentioned above, is one of several highways between the East and the West, and the road standard is not satisfactory, either from the point of view of traffic or from the point of view of national road. The road is both steep and swinging, leading to difficult driving conditions, especially for heavy traffic during winter. Large parts of the stretch are also narrow and slippery, and it is therefore high time to have this bottle neck repaired. In the national transport plan 2014–2023, government funding has been provided to start the deployment of E16 on the Fønhus–Bagn–Bjørgo route for the first four years. The first stage, the section Fønhus-Bagn, was adopted in the Stortinget in June 2012. Construction starts are planned for the Bakn–Bjørgo section in the spring of 2016, and the project is expected to be open to traffic in 2020 – to a great deal of joy for those who are going to use this route. Of the total costs of 1.44 billion. kr represents State resources of SEK 1,1 billion. SEK and tolls 340 million. kr. It should be noted that the State share of the project has increased after the local policy treatment in the autumn of 2013 and that smaller cost increases are also covered by State resources. It has been important to keep toll tariffs as low as possible. The Government, in its main message ‘On the Right Path’, has promoted a toll reform that will reduce the cost of toll collection. At the same time, the use of a lower calculation technical interest rate is open and it is proposed to use 400 million in the 2016 budget. kr to an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. The advantage of these arrangements is that they provide a space for action that can help to reduce tariffs or reduce the amortisation time. Therefore, it is positive that a Joint Committee supports the suspension, which empowers the Ministry of Transport to set lower rates, based on a lower calculation technical interest rate, if it is of local interest to do so. This is a long-term project that gets its implementation, which will mean better accessibility and not least increased road safety for all those travelling along the E16.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1143	Here we have an important road cause and a great joy for all drivers who travel on the E16 east-west between Oslo and Bergen, and for the locals in Bagn, Bjørgo and Valdres. Today's road standard is too bad and does not meet the national road standard. The European road is curved, narrow, and most of the distance is missing yellow mid-strip. Rehabilitation of E16 on this route will mean a complete stock road standard with wider roads and yellow middle stripe, and this is important for road safety. The development now adopted by the Stortinget provides not only the basis for increased road safety, but also for increased accessibility and reduced travel time, due to both tunnel and shorter distance between Bakn and Bjørgo than is the case with the current trajectory. It is also gratifying for the drivers that we open up to reduce tolls due to lower interest rates. The right hand and the forward hand will also point out that the toll on this route has been reduced as a result of increased government appropriations. The toll reform and the interest-rate compensation scheme will also provide lower toll costs for most people. It is important to reduce the toll costs for both industry and the people, and consequently it is a little disappointing to see that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party do not automatically want lower toll tariffs to benefit the drivers, but that they open up so that the savings and money can be used instead for new infrastructure projects. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a very important and clear signal that the Stortinget is now sending to the government. The size is concerned that we should build as rationally as possible in order to get the most out of the money. Consequently, the message from Stortinget to the government is that narrow four-field roads are built where appropriate, instead of today's model with extensive use of two-/three-field roads. The two/three-field road is an unfortunate solution, from an economic perspective, a road safety perspective and not least an environmental perspective. The extra cost of narrow four-field roads is small, but the benefits to society are great. If the landscape is flat and there is no need to detonate tunnels and build bridges, the extra cost of narrow four-field roads can actually be only 10 pst. compared to two/three-field road. The construction industry, the Right and the Advance Party have seen this for several years, so it is extra happy that the Storting now also sees this. In this context, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the case rapporteur and the Labour Party representative, Sverre Myrli, for helping the Stortinget to send an important signal to the government. The main road network in Norway should be built to the greatest possible degree of road safety, based on tomorrow’s needs, not yesterday’s needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1160	The line E16 Bagn–Bjørgo is the second stage of the development of E16 between Fønhus and Bjørgo in South Aurdal and North Aurdal municipalities. Today, as already mentioned, the E16 is the main route between the East and the West and an important tribal route, which in no way has a satisfactory standard on this route. Heavy traffic represents about 12 pst. of the total volume of traffic, and in winter time, the share of heavy traffic, together with an occasional very steep and fluctuating road, is a high risk of emergence and thus also of road safety. It is also important to note that, in addition to the fact that a new road provides space for much better provision for walking and cycling on the old road, it also involves a reduction of 1.2 km. So even if the socio-economic net benefits are negative, this is an important and necessary improvement of a major road link between East and West that provides both better accessibility and increased road safety. The current low market rate provides the basis for making changes in relation to the calculation technical rate used for toll loans. A more favourable level of interest rates could contribute to faster reductions in relation to original plans, lower toll rates, or a user's released funds to further invest in important improvements that may increase the availability and road safety of the route concerned. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the way in which a person uses this money that is released should be anchored in the local authorities – municipalities and county municipalities – that are most affected by the project. With today's interest rate level, many road projects that have foreseen toll financing with a calculation technical interest rate of 6,5 p.p. will be released, which may be used for other purposes relating to the road section in question. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that in all cases of this kind, one contributes to a good dialogue between the state and the local authorities, so that these funds can provide the best and the best possible benefit. This means that these are released funds that may not necessarily only go to reduced rates or reduced toll periods, although they can of course also be used for these purposes. For the Christian People's Party, it's about getting the most way for the money you have at your disposal. It is important then that one is in dialogue with those who are closest to the project in question, in order to look at solutions that can also open up to measures that promote good accessibility and increased road safety. In the Bodøpakket, which the Stortinget dealt with last year, local authorities asked for the release of funds due to lower interest rates than initially calculated to improve port connectivity. Now it's probably hardly a port one thinks about most in Uppland, but maybe other measures that one sees fit to build a good infrastructure for the future. I believe that a good dialogue is created by the Department and that there will be a good solution, where the state and the region can find out how best to use these funds. Otherwise, I refer you to the good review of the case by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1175	For Valdres and for us who often use this important East–West connection, this is a happy day. Finally, we get to work on improving and driving one of the most critically poor sections we have on the E16 on the east side of the watershed. This very rough stretch is particularly demanding at this time of year for those who travel there, but in general it presents great challenges for those on the road. Parts of the roadway in Bagnskleiva have major damage to the sentence that creates a large search in the roadway. At some points the asphalt is measured to be 70–80 cm thick where it has been filled with asphalt. This route is also part of a major effort to upgrade E16 which has a high value for both passenger and freight transport. An annual traffic in 2014 on narrow 3000 vehicles may not be so impressive, but with large exit weekends to the large cab and open air areas of Valdres, there are some days of clearly greater traffic disruption here. With about 300 heavy cars per day, it also sees the great importance of the road for freight flows east-west and even from the Valdres region. It has worked well locally and regionally to achieve a coherent development on the whole section of Fønhus–Bjørgo. For the Fønhus-Bagn section, which was opened a short year ago, this has already resulted in good results on traffic flows. There are a number of people who should be commended for the work they have done on this road project, but especially those who speak in South Aurdal, Kåre Helland, who also dared to guarantee the implementation of the project, are quick to be mentioned. It is also from this point of view that the proposal seeks to find solutions for those who are often using the road locally and who are facing disproportionate costs. The introduction of a maximum pass-through roof of 40 passages per month and then free passage is accompanied by and attended by families with young people participating in leisure activities that require more day-to-day bombing. It is also important that the State part has increased somewhat and that it is opened for the Ministry of Transport to be given the necessary powers to determine tariffs based on lower interest rates. I also believe that I can guarantee that one will have the necessary local political support. What might not be so good in this case is that we will now be a year late with the start of the construction project. The idea was that we should have a coherent expansion of the entire section of the section Fennhus-Bagn with start-up now in the fall of this last part. It has been worked intensely from several parties to get this done, but now we see that the start is delayed and pushed out to the next summer. But the most important thing is that we get started. What may be extra demanding applies to heavy transport, which has also been part of it. Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association has also pointed out the untimely high level of bombing they receive on their transport, into Valdres and through Valdres on E16. The centre party has entered the State budget as a halve of the heavy-duty vehicle toll, precisely to meet the transport of goods and to mitigate the cost of freight transport around the country. Finally, I would like to underline what the Committee also says that the significant investments currently made in the E16 in recent years, and a new route now between Bagn and Bjørgo, will make E16 an even better and safer way between the Austland and the West. As the Committee, I would also like to stress the importance of continuing the E16 investment between Sandvika and Bergen in order to maintain and strengthen this important transport year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1195	I'm glad it's 1 billion. kr on the way to Valdres to build up the back cover. There is a long extension continuation of the recently completed project. That way has become very good. The State budget for next year also announces additional appropriations for E16 in the municipalities of Vestre Slide and Vang. It's important that you look at this whole thing. Now you're approaching completion over the mountain. Of course, some southwards remain in Buskerud – between Hönefoss and South Aurdal – and of course southwards to Sandvika. The E16 is an important transport year for both Western and Inland Uppland and Hedmark. There is a lot of utility traffic going south from Bagnskleiva to Hönefoss and Oslo, but a lot of utility traffic is also going east, over fv. 33 and further towards Sweden. So these are important transport paths. The E16 is also an important road for tourist traffic. Also locally, this is an important road. The local recovery solution is important. There has been a good job locally to get to these solutions. All in all, the left is very happy that this expansion is coming into place, and looks forward to further expansions on the E16.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1206	It's great when the Stortinget gathers around another road project that can be built. Anyone who has driven this route knows that there is a road that is not so very comfortable to drive on. It's narrow, it's swinging, and especially in wintertime it's uncomfortable. There are many who travel there especially this weekend because of tourism and cabins. It means that the traffic is above what it should be on such a road. That's why it's good. The project is 11 km long. That means that we're getting better on a long way, but the project also reduces the length of the road by 1.2 km. It becomes a much better standard with two-field road, 8.5 metres wide, and a long tunnel is being built, which also makes the road feel better. The tunnel shall have three lanes all the way. It's going to be built bridges, and there's going to be good facilities along the road with bus pockets, conversion of multiple off-roads, construction of forest roads with logging sites and noise measures. This I think will be good for those who live there, and not least for those who use E16 as a road between west and east. I am also pleased – and I think it is appreciated by many who live there – that today's majority have made sure that this road comes into place faster than it had been suggested. One of the first things that happened after the government change was that it was added 40 million. kr for the planning of this project. So it's not enough that it's in the national transport plan if one doesn't finance the planning work. It came into place as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It makes progress. Someone's talking about delay. Yes, if we had adhered to the budget appropriations that were planned, we would not have had this discussion here today, so it's a little strange to call it a delay when it's good progress. The other good news is that when we build the project, there will be less tolls than that contained in the national transport plan. Once again, through good budgetary agreements between the four bourgeois parties, or the non-socialist parties, we have increased the state share here by 120 million. kr – simply because today’s majority believe that we should not have the high bomb tariffs that you had set up on some roads around. That means that the economic barrier in the area is getting lower than it would otherwise be, and that means that more people will be able to afford to use the road. It is not least important for business. When we build such roads, it's also about building good housing and working regions. Then it makes no sense to make the passage on those roads so expensive that people don't take advantage of the advantage. The third advantage of the region is that which is now fortunately behind a unanimous increase, that one will look at the computational interest rate – which many of us fought a lot to do with the last four and eight years, without getting anywhere. Now, all of a sudden, the Storting is unanimously behind and believes that we have to be able to do that. It helps to get new thoughts into the governing corridors. In addition, we see that the toll reform through the interest-rate compensation scheme can ensure that there is even more government funding for this project. Now there are budget negotiations on the Stortinget, so I'm not going to shoot how they end. But at least I'm glad that it's not the attitudes of the parties that said already this summer that they wouldn't spend money on reducing tariffs, which prevails at the beginning of the budget negotiations. Faster implementation than planned, lower rates and spaces to reduce the rates even more, in addition to getting the path that everyone agrees on – yes, it's just to cheer for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1229	First of all, the region and the municipalities here are terribly pleased that this is finally progressing. So I'm going to comment a little bit that the Council of State suggested that it's not a delay. In fact, it is stated in the newspaper Valdress on 28 May, where precisely this toll proposition was called for – that he had to come before the summer holiday and get final treatment here in Stortinget then, in order to follow planned progress. So the start should be now in the fall. Does it not agree that the Minister is misinformed if he claims that this should actually be started now in the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1234	What I'm aiming for is that at the government shift, 40 million came in. extra for the planning of the project. That means that if one had kept the progress that the previous government had made in its draft government budget for 2014, we would not have stood here today and discussed this decision that is now coming. It's because you've got a government shift with four other parties to control the country, that we've been given the advance compared to what the red-green government had planned. So it's quite possible that compared to what you add up to in the national transport plan, you haven't got to things as quickly. But it's going to be the same thing as saying that because in 1962 one adopted a national motorway plan, all the roads would have been in place. This government, the majority of today, makes sure that we're doing this faster than the previous government put it up to. So it's really not when you start a project, which is the most important thing, but when you open it up for traffic. There we're going to have full progress, and we've provided more funding than you had put up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1241	I fully agree with the Minister that the most important thing is to make progress in it. The second thing I thought I could challenge the minister was just what the heavy transport and the Freight Car Association are busy about, that is, the cost of the passages here, which is three times higher for them than for the light vehicles. The Central Party has proposed to halve the toll rates for heavy goods vehicles in the State budget. Is there anything the Minister can do to work to implement in the future – also to reduce the cost of important freight transport around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1246	If the representative of the Central Party had voted in favour of the Progress Party and given us a majority, we would have carried out this project without toll financing. I think everyone knows that. The progress party has said that we want to invest a little more of the oil wealth just so that we will not burden the drivers and the transport industry with this. We haven't got that majority, and we weren't close to getting it with the Central Party's approach to the toll reform, which we dealt with this summer, where the goal is to spend money to reduce tariffs. Then the Center Party was strongly opposed. I think it is a little strange that we have a hypothetical alternative here that is not even a proposal from the Center Party in the position on this matter. If the Senter Party thought that the bomb tariffs in the proposal were too high for the lorry drivers, why didn't they at least come up with alternative proposals? There are no proposals that I see as being proposed by the Central Party which the representative argues for. I'm going to be more than happy to be with and reduce rates for both the one and the other if we get the majority of the Storting for that. I think the toll reform also shows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1253	What's important here is the last point in the Committee's configuration, which is just looking at different solutions that allow the Ministry of Transport to be involved in meeting reduced toll rates for the passages here in Bagn–Bjørgo. Therefore, it is a little strange when the minister as a representative of the Progress Party drew the old story that if they had had multiples, they could have supported this. So here is a central government budget proposal that the Progress Party can support and get a multiple for reduced bets. Does the Minister not see it as a possibility for the Progress Party to join in and support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1258	There's three points here. Today's government has already granted 120 million. kr more for the project to reduce fares. I think today's majority has shown us what we think about it. In addition, from the government's side of the proposition, we have opened up to have a different computational interest rate than what was usual under the previous government. The previous government said they were going to add 6.5 pst to the ground, and that was something they never knew about. We have opened up that we should avoid it as much as possible and put ourselves more at real cost. I am pleased that the Central Party is now supporting this. It'll give us space to reduce the fares. But once again, I do not see a single proposal in this position that is in line with what the Centre argues for, namely that the reduction in tariffs should benefit business through lower tariffs on vehicle trains, which will, therefore, again largely benefit non-resident road trains. It's a little strange to have questions about something that the Central Party itself does not propose, but as they think we should support. It's going to be a little bit hypothetical about this particular project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1263	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1268	Thanks to the rapporteur, who presented the matter in a very good way, but also took the trip to Valdres and drove the route. I guess that's what the Council of State has done. That's very good. The red-green government began on what will eventually become a large-scale bet on the E16 through Valdres. I am pleased that the current government is following up the red-green NTP, and that today we can finally deal with the toll proposition for the route Bagn–Bjørgo. It was late. We were several people who wanted it before summer, and who would like to have treated it before summer, but the most important thing is that we now get started. I am also pleased that the toll ratio is reduced – and can be further reduced. It's been working well locally in Valdres, across the board. This is a good day. We finally give a clear signal for the construction of Bagn–Bjørgo. For those of us who drive the backcarry relatively often, new tunnels and new roads are going to be very good. As I said, the rear face is curved and steep, parts of the distance are razed, and there have been accidents on the route. Now we get a more traffic-proof road, and Valdres gets even closer together. It's good for road users, it's good for tourists, who come to the cabin faster and to various festivals in Valdres, and it's good for business, which depends on a good road. The E16 is the main artery through Valdres, a district that no longer has a railway, and where the airport faces a very uncertain future. So this is important for our region, but also for large parts of the country, for E16 is the only 100 pst. winter-safe crossroads between east and west. No matter what the weather conditions, business knows they'll probably get over the mountains. It is important at a time when there is increasing rainfall and extreme weather. And when e.g. 33 from Bjørgo to Gjøvik are now in the process of being realized with good standards, this county road, along with E16, is the main link between the West and the whole inland. In the Mjøs region, there is a lot of industry and value-added that depend on a good road link with the West. Then the development of the whole E16 is still important. If there are any people now wondering if this is a defense that the E16 is still going to be a tribal route between east and west, I can say hello from Valdres and say that the answer is yes. In Uppland, there are clear and cross-political signals that we still want E16 as a route. We'll probably have the opportunity to take that discussion later, but I want to say that regardless of what you end up with in the tribal road discussion, we need to continue to repair the whole E16. It is important for Valdres and for the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1281	All right, first of all, it's possible that earlier in the debate went a bit ball with all the place names that appear in the proposition. The line Bagn–Bjørgo, which we are dealing with today, is the second stage of the development between Fønhus and Bjørgo. The first stage of this expansion was the section Fønhus-Bagn, if there were any uncertainty about it. The old working party champion Martin Tranmæl once said: The evening post writes nicely about me, what wrong have I done? After hearing Tor André Johnsen's posts, I don't know if I should say, Tor André Johnsen talks nice about me, what wrong have I done? [[Laughter]] I choose anyway to interpret what we heard from the speaker of the Progress Party, positive, and see it as we're all concerned with finding good solutions. So until that Johnsen and others have taken up, about the computational interest rate. Bombers receive on the loans raised the interest on the market at that time. If this rate is lower than the calculation technique, as it has been on many toll projects, the loan will be disbursed faster than the underlying. It is not that any money is lost in the system even though it has been operated on at a higher interest rate than the actual interest rate. Then the toll projects have been paid faster, as we have seen on many projects in recent years. But obviously it makes sense to adjust that rate when we have as low an interest rate as we now have. And until Johnsen took up: there are three ways to use that space of action that one then gets: lower bomb rates, faster downtime or to build more roadway – or a combination of these. In this project it is not relevant to add other projects. In the project we are dealing with today, it is a matter of getting lower bomb rates and faster downtime, but in other projects we are discussing – as Gruvan mentioned when we discussed the Bodø package – it is time to introduce other projects because it is desirable from local teams. I repeat: in the case we are dealing with today, a lower computational technical interest rate will result in lower bomb rates and perhaps even faster downtime. I am pleased that there is so much support in the Stortinget for what has now been presented, which is later adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1308	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1315	This is a great day and a brand day for everyone who has been waiting for green light for rv. 23 Dagslett - Linnes. The project we are adopting today has been waiting for a long time. For too many years we have been looking forward to the Stortinge adopting the project, but nothing has happened. Riksvej 23 Dagslett-Linnes has been regularly discussed in the Committee. It is gratifying that there is a joint committee promoting the establishment of the development and financing plan to provide the Literal and smoking communities with a new 5,5 km of quadruple road, short notice. 23 with 2 km, while making the road safer, faster and more affordable. I thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this important project. This road project is also of national importance, since it implies that rv. 23, which is an important passageway for the whole country and beyond to Sweden, is now being rusted up. During the period 2005-2014, 51 accidents involving personal injury between Dagslett and Linnes were recorded. Unfortunately, there were also five fatal accidents and nine serious injuries. There is also an important reason why it is absolutely necessary for us now to start building the new road. Traffic safety is a high priority of this government, and better roads and construction of new roads are one of the most important things we can do to prevent more accidents and deaths on our roads. This project has a cost framework of 2.18 billion. kr. In an age of increasing unemployment, it is important that such new, large-scale road projects can create activity and work. Construction starts will only be in 2017, but in the years before, engineers and others will have enough to hang their fingers in. For years, traffic has been high through the housing areas concerned. Yes, there has been so much traffic that it has almost been unbearable for them at Lahell. At the end of the Laslett tunnel, many people sat for years with houses on tied properties, without anything happening on the part of the administration. Fortunately, we were able to sort this out in the previous period, so that the families affected got their houses redeemed. It's a pleasure day for all those who have been so affected, that we're now running the project, but, as I said, it's not just necessary for the locals, who drive on the road every day. It's also a national case. Not least, this is also a vital part of the Oslofjord link. What we're adopting today is a start, because we're far from finished with the big road project. The next thing to do now is to continue working on the connection to the E18. It is a clear assumption that part 2 of the project now goes on, and that it becomes a connection to the E18. It contributes to good traffic management in the capital area. It is also essential to establish a connection over the Oslofjorden. Major projects are under way in the Dramens region, including: fjord town along Lierstranda, where a new hospital will also be in place. The development of the new fjord city is closely linked to the development of Lierstranda and a modern, forward-looking transport system, which has also been pointed out by the Minister of Transport when he has visited this area. The connection between E18 and Rv. 23 is crucial to improve the functioning of the road system in one of Norway’s fastest growing regions. I will end by congratulating, in particular the region, on the fact that an important road project is now under way. It is lagging behind, and this is part of a major and important road project — including for the whole nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1338	Today, we are going to adopt the development of an important national road, which has both a lot of local traffic and is also an important link between E6 and E18 and therefore has a lot of transit traffic. It's a happy day for the locals who live along the river. 23 in the municipalities of Smoken and Lier, for the locals who use the road, but also a day of joy for those who drive E6 and E18 and do not need or want to enter Oslo. The local population and the drivers have been too patient and waited too long on this new four-field road. The first regulatory plan is 24 years old and the first detailed plan was adopted as early as 1990. It is both hopeless and unacceptable that it will take so long to realise important road projects in Norway. Both reducing the planning time and reducing the construction time are important objectives for the Right Party Government, and it is a work that we are already doing well. The only comfort I can see is that it has taken so long to complete this road, that the plans have been changed along the way, from two fields to four fields, and that is, fortunately, a reasonable result. Today's rv. 23 between Dagslett and Linnes have a poor standard, and it does not meet the applicable requirements for road width, curve, off-roads, cross-resolutions or speed limit, and with an ÅDT – annual traffic – of 14 000-18 000 it would otherwise be completely pointless to build a new two-field national road. Another four-field rv. As a result, significant improvements will be made both for the local population and for the drivers. The parcel also gets shorter by building a tunnel. It will reduce noise and reduce pollution problems for the local population. But four fields will also provide better traffic flow and, consequently, less car pollution, as well as reduced travel time and improved road safety. So today's decision to build 5.5 km of four-field highway is going to be well received by everyone. But – because it’s a small ‘but’: it’s very disappointing that the majority, at least the majority of the Committees, did not support the Right and the Progress Party’s important remark about waiting to set up toll stations on the side roads, because in principle it’s quite illogical that someone who doesn’t need the road, someone who doesn’t use the road, has to pay for it. And it's going to be extra unfair when we see examples of retired people who have to pay tens of thousands of dollars to get to their nursing home and visit their wife or husband, and communities that are completely "bombed inside" – who can't even get a bread purchased without paying tolls – on a local road that isn't even repaired. The reason for putting a bomb on the side roads is a theoretical fear of leakage. The state road authority assumes that the leakages can be so large that they go beyond the funding base of the road. This is vision by road bureaucrats, and it's not based on actual leakage. The right hand and the forward hand are clear that lateral tolling stations shall be limited to the greatest possible extent and in any case not assessed set up after a certain period, so as to have concrete figures of actual traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1353	Extension of the route between Dagslett and Linnes on Rv. 23 is important and necessary in terms of both increased road safety and better accessibility. 51 accidents with personal injury for the period 2005-2014, five of which fatal accidents and nine accidents with serious personal injury, really underline the need for necessary improvements to the current route. We have also noticed that the journey distance is reduced by 2.2 km, and the project has a net socio-economic benefit of 5.2 billion. kr. The project is therefore clearly important and will contribute to a whole new standard compared to today's trajectory. At the same time, we will highlight the challenges of this type of project at the intersection of transport policy priorities and soil protection. Both are central and national considerations. It is important that in future transport developments, an attempt is made to reconcile increased accessibility and road safety with the long-term need we have to ensure food production in our country. The current low market rate provides the basis for making changes in relation to the calculation technical interest rate underpinned by the Toll Act. A more favourable level of interest rates could contribute to faster reductions in relation to original plans, lower toll rates, or to the use of decommitment funds for further efforts to improve the availability and road safety of the route in question. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the way a person uses this money that is released should be anchored in the local authorities, municipalities and county councils that are most affected by the project. With today's interest rate level, we get several road projects in the future that have foreseen toll financing with an interest rate of 6.5 pst. – released funds that may be used for other purposes. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that one in all these kinds of cases contributes to a good dialogue between the state and the local authorities, so that these funds can provide the best and the most benefit possible. It means released funds which not only need to go to reduced tariffs or reduced toll periods, but which can also be used for these purposes and other purposes, or a combination. For the Christian People's Party, it's about getting the most way for the money you have at your disposal. It is then important that one is in dialogue with those who are closest to the project in question, in order to find good local and regional solutions. Then I register that the government parties do not want to establish toll collection sideways – in this case the old rv. 23 – from day one, but only after a period of traffic on the new road. We agree that it is important that all toll collection should be perceived as both fair and relevant to road users – that is an important principle. The reason why the government in this case proposes that the side road also receive the toll station from day one is traffic safety and traffic leakage. On the basis of the fact that the municipalities concerned, the county, the directorate and the department suggest that this toll collection will also be in place from the first day, it is strange that the government parties in Stortinget choose to ignore this unique and highly professionally justified recommendation. I refer you to the rapporteur's examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1368	Now, what we're going to do is we're going to have the first stage of development on RV. 23 Daylight and all the way to E18. It's a distance that's reduced by 2.2 km. It is an area of high traffic, 14000-18000 vehicles per day. It includes an extension of 5.5 km of new four-field road, and the road stops at the sewage treatment plant at Gilhus, what is called Linnes. There's a 2,2 km tunnel, there's a 300 m long coal yard on Linnes, and it also includes the construction of a 3 km walk and cycle path. This is a big project. The revised regulatory plan has been approved by the municipalities of Lier and Røken in June 2013. The project has a cost framework of 2 420 million. kr in 2015. It is partly toll financing, which has been dealt with by others, which has been dealt with by the municipalities of Røkken, the local government of Lier and the municipality of Buskerud – and adopted. It's a little special to experience here that the Right is also involved that one should have a different toll solution. And – I would like to stress it: here we have two right-hand-ruled municipalities, we have one right-hand-ruled county municipality, and then here in Stortinget we feel that without any further justification, the right-hand side also goes against its three central political leaders: two rapporteurs and one county rapporteur. The toll percentage is more than 60 pst., and it is a project supported by the Centre Party, with the treatment done, because the Dagslett-E18 section has a high priority from the district in Buskerud. As I said, what is now being presented is reasonably agreed, but we are facing an even more demanding stretch, from the sewage treatment plant at Gilhus in Lier to the connection to E18. As stated in the Proposition: The Ministry will return to Stortinget with its own case ‘when there are necessary assumptions for this’. This is important, while it is very demanding. One shall pass through valuable cultivated soils, and soil protection is particularly important in Lier. It's the whole of Norway's vegetable garden, it's unintelligible soil, and in case of inevitable conflict between a new road and cultivated soil, in the view of the Center Party, the answer has to be a coal host, with vegetable cultivation over the coal host. It's called a green shift in road construction. One must go through large residential areas, and not least – which the representative of Hofstad Helleland was in, but with the opposite sign of what I am now coming with – through the industrial area on Lierstranda. There are the difficult industrial areas with very large freight transport – I would like to underline: very large freight transport. There are few areas that have as much freight per square metre as that of Lierstranda. The authorities have no alternative to the location of the freight activity there. It is even the case that the municipality of Lier, with the rapporteur, has not even started work, as far as the industries are aware, in the event that one has to relocate this activity in order to carry out what the representative of Hofstad Helleland had to do with the fjord city. So here one is facing some very difficult challenges. This continuation of the road is provided in the approved municipal sub-plan for external Lier from 2007: the state roadvessen has, in the background, adopted a trajectory for Rv. 23 Linnes–E18 in the municipal sub-plan in spring 2015 prepared the regulatory planning of this project. But then, on 30 June 2015, the rapporteur and the rapporteur-general are informed that the Vegvesen is finding it difficult to find a good solution for the link between RV and RV. 23 on E18 at Braker Island. They also launch the so-called Lier diagonal – a radical change in relation to the decision in the municipality of Lier, and today Lier is on its previous decision. I just want to end with that it's very important to rv. 23 Linnes–E18 is built in the extension of the Dagslett–Linnes project. In order to achieve this, the project needs to be prioritised in the first period of NTP 2018-2029, and it will then be a major challenge to get the planning requirements in place within that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1391	In 1991-1992, almost 25 years ago, I was a newly elected county representative in Akershus. One of the first things we had to deal with was the question of a new oslof soil connection. There was a great debate on both sides of the fjord. Was it supposed to be built a bridge? Was it supposed to be built a tunnel? And in that case, where would it be placed? As you know, there was a tunnel. The Oslo soil connection, as the name became, was a good connection, but we have to admit: there were too poor connecting routes on both sides of the fjord, but in particular on the west side of the fjord. We've had that legacy for years. It is therefore gratifying that a new road is now being built between Dagslett and Linnes. It significantly improves the road system on the west side of the fjord towards the Oslofjord link, but – and that’s a big but – we have a challenge in how to connect the road further to the E18 in Lier/Dramen. I have recorded that there is already – or already, it has been for a long time – discussions locally about how to get a connection here. A new connection must be built to the E18. So the question is how. There are large agricultural areas, of the best in the country – perhaps the very best cultivated land in the whole country. It's residential areas. It's a business area. And the jam is to be built hospitals in the area as well. I would also say that while we are now discussing rv. 23, which is the extension of the Oslofjord link, we also have to not too long start building a new race in the Oslofjord link, in the Oslofjord tunnel. The Oslo soil connection has been paid down, but everyone who has moved there knows that tolls are still required. The decision was taken that the toll collection could continue even after the tunnel was disbursed, in order to finance a new tunnel run. So we have to do something about the connection, the road systems, to the Oslo soil connection, and we have to build a new tunnel. So to the point that Johnsen took up, about booms on the sidewalks. It's a little special to hear the spokesman of the Progress Party in today's debate. It is tempting to tell Johnsen that his party is in government, he sits 6-7 meters away from the Minister of Transport. It is the Minister for Transport who has promoted the proposition we are now dealing with. There's no one here who's so very happy in toll stations on the side roads, but that's the proposition in the proposition. The question is: is the Progress Party for what is in the Storting proposal, or is the Progress Party against it? Is the Progress Party for it in the government offices and against it in the Stortinget and is going to vote against tonight – or what is this really about? It's just to sort out, it's just to remove the trees on the side roads if you think it's right, but it's the government that has presented what we're dealing with right now. I would also say that if the government has a different approach to it with toll stations on the side roads, it can of course be made completely independent of what the government calls toll reform. In the Committee, the Right Party and the Progressive Party argue that this has to do with the notified toll reform. Of course, removing beams on the side roads can be done independently. Then it also has to be added that as the political situation is now, and with the presentation of the alternative state budget of the various parties, what the government calls its toll reform, seems to get some serious shot at the bow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1408	This is probably a road project that we are now getting started, which will bring great benefits locally. It means more traffic-safe roads for people who use the route every day, it means better local environment for people who live in the area, and that means that more of the traffic that travels between east and west of Oslo soil will get better conditions. I've driven the distance myself many times. There's no doubt that it doesn't have the standard it should have for the traffic it serves, so this is the first part of that expansion on RV. 23 which is needed to get a standard on the way all the way up. Not least when a person encounters heavy transport, he sees what challenges are, when he has a lot of swings, there is a bit narrow, a lot of traffic and little overview. The ÅDT on this route is 18000 vehicles. That's a lot. What is now being built is a 5.5 km long new four-field road, partly in a new line, partly in a tunnel, and the running distance will be reduced by 2.2 km. It also means that this path will be even more attractive as a way of unloading in order to continue on the E18 through Oslo if you are going between east and west of the fjord. I think that's such a good news that even a red-green city council in Oslo should have been to build a new road, even if they're really against it, because this is also a download for Oslo Center. We're getting started in this four-year period, with the planned start in 2017, and the road will be open in 2021. Then this money costs – the management framework is over 2 billion. kr – but there is also a project that is estimated to have a net benefit of 5.2 billion. kr, i.e., something that is socio-economically profitable. We should actually implement such projects as soon as possible. Then there'll be a discussion about tolls here as well. The parties that themselves say they don't want to spend a penny on reducing tolls, this government just thinks it has to start reducing tolls. I think everyone understands that there is a connection here: when the Storting will not grant money to reduce tariffs, the government does not have the power to reduce tariffs. However, in our work, we have managed to see that what is now before the decision of the Storting has a lower rate than what the local municipalities and county councils decided when they agreed to this path. So one suggested that there should be a price of between 22 and 27 kroner when the municipal politicians agreed to this. We're going to have a rate of $20. In addition, in this case as in the previous, we also show that by making changes in the interest rate, by bringing the interest compensation scheme, the fare does not have to be 21 kroner rather when the road opens – we might be down in, for example. NOK 15 I'm glad that the Storting agrees with this, and that we now have an agreement on what was very difficult just a few years ago. I am also very pleased with the verbal signal that the Workers' Party is giving here in the case of toll stations on the side roads. It has been an approximation that toll stations have been set up sideways when building a new road. The overview of it from when the Workers' Party and the Centre themselves crashed is quite long. Now, when we get the clear signals that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about it, and that if today's majority wants to remove toll stations from the side roads, at least the Workers' Party will not protest, then there is a very broad, new majority that gives us room to make changes. So unless I misinterpreted the Labour Party here now – then I hope they correct me during the debate – it gives me a signal that we can see if we should at least start road projects without having toll stations on side roads, and then take a discussion with local politicians afterwards whether there is a good solution in terms of traffic safety and traffic management on the old roads. So that's to the extent of good news, and I appreciate the representative Myrlis' clear speech in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1430	I must say that I am reasonably surprised by the last thing I heard the Minister of Transport now say. Is it correct for the Minister for Transport to present the content of his propositions to the Stortinge depending on what the Workers' Party believes? I assume that it is the policy of the Advance Party that lies in the matters that the government is presenting to the Stortinget. My question is: is the Minister for Transport in favour of what is in the proposition that we are now dealing with, or is he not in favour of the proposal that is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1435	I'm in for what I've put forward. And then I see with pleasure that the Storting gives us signals that we can be even more liberal in the way we put up the project, so that we can actually do even more to reduce the toll burden on most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1441	Those concerned with State-scientific issues and constitutional issues are concerned with how parliamentaryism works in practice. I have to say that those who are going to write the history of the afterlife now have a new type of parliamentaryism to write about. So we have a Minister of Transport and a government that is going to present issues to the Storting, depending on what signals are given from the opposition on the Stortinget, and depending on what signals the opposition has to adopt at its party meetings. The question is quite simply: does the Minister of Transport really think that the opposition wants to introduce tolls on the side-road network because, in principle, we think it is so important, or has it struck the Minister of Transport that we are dealing with today because it is the Minister of Transport who has proposed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1446	I think this is going to be a bit of a strange debate, because in my form of state science, it is the Storting that decides, and the government that implements, and we are dealing with the decisions the Stortinge gives us as leaders of the policy we are going to pursue. Then, of course, a government will also make clear in its proposals how a person wants things to be. But I choose to look at this positive. Now the Workers' Party says very clearly that they are so that we should try to avoid tolls on the side road network. It's a slightly different approach than what they even practiced in government. I think it's very good, it's in line with what we've wanted all along. But we also try to relate to that when the Storting has made decisions, for example. in climate settlements or other major settlements, it lays the foundations for the policy to be pursued by a government. It is possible that the Workers' Party experienced it differently when they sat in a majority constellation and did not intend to care about what the Storting meant. But today's government, which is a minority government, must deal seriously with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1453	At least I agree with the first, that this is a nice debate – it is a very nice debate. This has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In the case that we had to deal with a little while ago, the E16 case, it has also been considered to set up bombs on the side roads – I think it is done in all the bombs that we have for treatment. There one didn't recommend it, because one thought it wasn't necessary to do it. So there's no principle about a wanted boom on the side roads or not. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, depending on whether it is a traffic rejection or not, and depending on the consequences it has for the volume of traffic on the side roads concerned. So it's not a principle whether you're in favour of or against bommer on the side roads – it's completely wrong. It has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and I expect the Minister for Transport to have done so in this case. My question is simply: does the Minister for Transport think it makes sense to introduce the toll scheme outlined here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1458	Yes, initially it makes sense, on the basis of the leadership that Stortinget has used to put on us based on what is in the national transport plan. So today's government has often reduced the bombing rates in relation to what is in the national transport plan, because we have a different approach. At the same time, we know very well that a minority government has to deal with the vast majority of people at all times think, and so sometimes it becomes something that is not pure progress party policy or pure right-wing policy, but that nevertheless, like here, gets a very wide majority in the Biggest. I am pleased with the attitude of the representative Myrli, despite the tile-spike debate that is taking place here. I'm glad to see that we're reaching, for example. can work to remove more tolling stations on side roads. Then I also hope that the Workers' Party will be involved in further work and support us when we also try to take action to reduce toll-toll tariffs on the main road network that we build, so that we do not get the economic barriers that often come from toll financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1465	The centre party has maritimeed a near-earth, practical approach to the question of toll stations on side roads once one has adopted toll stations. Something else will not be particularly responsible. And here we have a case where the Council of State has put forward a position in line with what are the local authorities, and then we find it special that the Right is also involved in a comment where one says that one should not have a bomb on side roads. My simple question is: In this specific case, does the Council of State believe that it is the responsibility of the Right Party and the Progress Party to counter toll collection on the side road? - Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1472	I'm not going to assess what people in the Stortinge think, it would have been unheard of. I'm dealing with the big thing that decides. If it's also true that the Center Party is now signaling that they think it's completely wrong not to have tolls on this side way, it's absolutely excellent, and then it just becomes an ever broader and broader majority for something that didn't have a majority in the vote. I'm dealing with the decisions and the clear signals that the Stortinge give.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1479	The Council of State has resorted to a debate technique in which one attributes a different opinion to its debaters than to what they have. The centre party has been quite clear that we are following local policy decisions and government, with sideways bombing — dot. There was another question I asked, but I get no answer to it. Furthermore, my question is Rv. 23 Linnes–E18 is a priority in the last six-year period of NTP 2014–2023, i.e. for the period 2018 to 2023. It is also written that Linnes–E18 will be built in extension – I underline in extension – by Rv. 23 Dagslett - Linnes. Do these formulations stand in the hands of the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1486	I believe that everyone who has followed the transport debate, and not least what is happening physically in addition to the debate, sees today's government as having the habit of trying to speed up the road project and not delay them. The list of projects that have received money earlier than planned in the budget is quite long, unlike in the previous four-year period, where there were relatively many projects that started later than what was planned. So we know, as the representative Lundtigen also mentioned in his statement, that there are a lot of things about part two of this project that are quite conflicty. I'm not going to pre-shoot what solutions you find on them, but I hope we find good solutions as quickly as possible, so that you get a good overall implementation of the route. It's getting rv. 23 in a better constitution from E18 to E6, really, on the other hand, you get a very good bypass in relation to having to drive through the Oslo Centre. It'll be good for heavy transport, it'll be good for commuters, and it'll be good for people who live along the way of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1493	I would like to thank you for the positive answer. The people of Buskerud will be very happy about that. What is then demanding is – as the Council of State also had in mind – to put in place the planning requirements, and then it becomes very central to the direction that the Ministry gives to the State Road Administration to find a way in such conflict-affected areas. My question then goes on: is there a direction from the ministry in such matters that one should seek coal host solutions, so as to reduce the conflicts of cultivated land, which otherwise could delay the planning process and the whole delivery, if one does not add up to a new planning method through such valuable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1500	Given how we have solved the Ringerix Railway and E16 project, today's government shows that we are able both to have high speed on complicated projects and to find solutions that most people are in favour of. Then there will always be someone who protests. But what's the goal is that we're also on Rv. 23 finds a solution that is as cost-effective as possible, with minimum conflicts and maximum benefits for society. What that means for cultural memories, nature reserves, agricultural land, population density and that kind of thing, I'm not going to advance, but what we're seeing is that the approach and the working method that the Vegvesen has been allowed to test is that we get a better result with less conflict than what has often been the case, and I hope we get that on Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1505	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1511	With regard to Lundtigen's invitation to side-by-side bomb debate, there is one important thing to remember: the toll reform will lead to lower toll rates, which in turn will significantly reduce the likelihood of leakage and, in turn, will reduce the need for side-by-side bombs. Now I'm not going to speak to right-wing colleagues or political colleagues in local politics in Buskerud, because I don't know very well about them, but on a general basis, I'm convinced that both local politicians and state politicians have felt the pressure to accept tolls on side roads, precisely because previous governments have built up a system where there has been a practice of tolls on side roads. My experience as both local and county politicians in Hedmark – where we have three road projects, etc. 3/25, E16 and E6, all three with toll funding – is that none of my colleagues in the forums we have dealt with these matters, including the red-green ones, are particularly pleased with tolls on the side roads. Then it is very gratifying to hear that my good colleague from Akershus, the bridge builder Sverre Myrli, also points it out. There's no one here who likes to bomb on side roads. That's very happy to hear. The right-wing Party government is now doing just to clean up a system that is established, unfortunately, as a general practice that, in order to get a new road, one must not only have a bomb on the road, one must largely also have a bomb on the side road. Unfortunately, I have seen many cases in Hedmark, especially in E16, where we have had major protests from the local population. One example is the branch of Galterud, where – at least to Myrli’s information – about half of the population vote in the Workers’ Party. They have reacted strongly to the fact that they have been ‘bombed in’, and the government is willing to clean up. We have tried to move the boom, but have not received any special response to it so far. But I have a good news for Stortinget: Now at the end of October, the department actually sent a request to Akershus and Hedmark to test out bomb exemptions for the branch on the side road, temporarily, for example. for one year, to see how it will develop with regard to toll leakage. So that's at least an important change in course now. And it's a pleasure to hear that more parties on the Stortinget, both the Center Party and obviously also the Workers' Party, are open not to be so principled on the bombs on side roads, but will have a little more flexibility and perhaps remove them on side roads in general as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1520	The last speaker said that it was the representative Lundtegen who invited to debate on tolls on the side roads. With all due respect, it was probably the last speaker himself who invited to that debate. No matter who has invited, and who are invited guests in the company, there is now some of what has become the debate here today. We've clarified what the Storting is called a 'obvious misunderstanding'. We have a Minister of Transport and a government that has believed that the opposition parties on the Stortinget and the majority of the population – including their two cooperating parties – have in principle been for the most possible tolls on side roads in toll projects. The last speaker even said that it has been a matter of principle. So here it's really been a misunderstanding. No one in the majority of the population has thought that there is any principle, it is, as I said in my previous post, a case-to-case assessment of whether toll collection is to be introduced on the lateral system. There are two things that are crucial to that. There is traffic refusal on the main road by not having tolls on the side roads, and there are traffic conditions on the side road network by not having them. This must therefore be assessed on a case-by-case basis. I would then recommend the Minister of Transport, as he has for two years presented so many toll cases – there is a Norwegian record in the collection of tolls – and he has believed that the Stortinget has been in principle for the most possible blockages on the side roads, now to go back to the department and go through all its toll cases and put new things forward to the Stortinget if he believes that what has been said in the debate here today has changed the political situation as fundamentally as we have been given the impression. Then the government and government parties can start with E16 through South Odal and Kongsvinger in Hedmark, where there has been a whirlwind about what will happen with toll collection on the side road network. If you think there has been a lack of signals both from the Workers' Party and from local and regional authorities, someone has not attended an hour. One day we have registered signals from the State Road Service on the matter, the other day we have registered signals from former State Secretary Hoksrud, and on the third day there have been other signals from the department. So start cleaning up, and start with E16!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1545	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1552	This is a happy day for us who run a lot on the E6 in Helgeland. It will also be a joyous day for the many long journeys between the north and the south of the country and into and out of the coast, and such as: shall continue on E6. The project is, as you can see, lengthened. There are many who have been impatient after getting started. E6 is the main route between North Norway and South Norway and through Helgeland. E6 Helgeland is a comprehensive development package between the Nord-Trøndelag border and Bolna in the municipality of Rana. It has been added up to a step-by-step expansion of the three sections. E6 Helgeland Nord was adopted in 2014, and I am pleased to announce that the work is already well under way. I am one of those who will not be annoyed if I have to wait for road work and explosion reported in the area now. It's good to see. Now the E6 Helgeland South and the Brattåsen-Lien section are to be adopted. I am very pleased that the last two sections are ready for development, because it will provide a better standard and a safer path on an accident-prone route. It's a stretch where there's been both fatal accidents and not least a lot of outbounds. Every harvest and winter there are salmon trailers overturned in some ditch on the route, and it is demanding for all drivers when the situation is as it is. There are nine sections we are going to adopt today, and as for the E6 Helgeland North, seven sections will be announced in a total competition where the same contractor will be responsible for development, operation and maintenance for a period of up to 15 years. I believe it is well in line with what was agreed in the national transport plan. We have also noticed that it will be added to the plant start in the autumn of 2016, but for the sections Kappskarmo-Brattåsen and Brattåsen-Lien, traditional forms of competition will be used, where operation and maintenance will not be included. The construction start time of these sections has not yet been clarified. I would like to remind you that it is important to determine the start of the plant there, too, so that rational progress can be ensured across the E6 Helgeland. It is expected to be completed by 2020 and therefore installation start on the last two sections is important. The financing plan for the deployment of E6 Helgeland South includes State resources and tolls. Since the adoption of the Decision in Prop. 55 S for 2013–2014, looking at the full cost picture, the cost estimate has increased by around 370 million. kr. The increase in costs is proposed to be covered by 340 million. kr in increased State resources and increased toll contributions of 30 million. kr. The location of the toll sections related to the E6 Helgeland south is in line with the local policy decisions of 2010-2012, and the municipality of Nordland and all the municipalities affected by the expansion, with the exception of the municipality of Hemnes, have joined the proposed arrangement for partial toll financing of the development. It's also been maintained in retrospect. There are some small disagreements in the committee, although we have all joined the project, but I would like to remind you – since I am a representative of the region and have followed the debate very closely – that it is a rather frustrated region that sees them getting an increased burden of toll rates, and that you do not get the reduction of toll rates and toll stations that were given in the package for the E6 Helgeland North. It is important that the Council of State follows up a good job towards the municipalities, so that, through the calculation rate, it can be seen whether a solution involving lower bombing rates is found, because in this case it is the unison requirement of the municipalities concerned. This has led us, together with the Workers' Party, to a proposal that goes on that very point. In addition, I have made a proposal to see if it is a good idea to provide guarantees from municipalities and county municipalities when it is the state that builds a road. These are proposals that I have made, and which I take up in this regard. The last thing I want to mention is that it would be a good idea to see if you can do some upgrades of E6 south of the Nordic border, through the Namskogan. For the heavy transport affected by this project, it is important that the traffic is well flowing there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1575	The representative of Sjelmo Nordås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1578	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good piece of work. It has been added to the step-by-step development and improvement of E6 in Helgeland. E6 Helgeland North was adopted in this room on 3 June last year. Now it is the E6 Helgeland South and the route Brattåsen – Lien that is on its way. The completion of these three projects will mean a whole new everyday life for those travelling along the E6 in Helgeland: better accessibility, shorter travel time, and not least increased road safety. This is a stretch where we've had several serious accidents, and a new and repaired road will mean a lot to reduce the number of accidents. Never before has it been so heavily invested in transportation in this part of the country, and I expect that this is a joyous day for all those who are concerned with value creation and housing in Helgeland. E6 between the Nord-Trøndelag border and Osen is approx. 137 km long. Heavy traffic represents 14-16 pst. and in this proposition it is planned to build up a total of 80 km of road divided into nine sections. As for the E6 Helgeland North, the construction of seven of the sections will be brought to light in an overall competition where the same contractor will be responsible for the development, operation and maintenance for a period of up to 15 years. I am a little excited about how this form of contract will work, but I believe that seeing investment, operation and maintenance in the context can produce good results. The question is whether this form of contract provides the desired results, or whether the development of the whole route as a public-private cooperation could be an alternative. Anyway, it's interesting to try out more models for faster and more efficient road development. The project is estimated to be close to 4 billion. kr. Of this, 520 million is. kr tolls. In other words, the state share is 86,9 pst. of the costs, which are a higher share than for the E6 Helgeland North, where the State share was 80,5 pst. The cost estimate has increased by 370 million. kr after the presentation of Prop. 55 S for 2013–2014. So of this, 340 million. kr covered by increased State appropriations, and 30 million. kr is covered by increased toll contributions. This means that the relative state share of the project has increased. I record that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party are criticising the government because the tariffs have increased by 20-25 pst. compared to the starting point and that there is a discrimination compared to E6 Helgeland North. It's a criticism I find very unreasonable, all the time the state contribution in the project has increased by 340 million. kr and the State interest in E6 Helgeland South is higher than in E6 Helgeland North. And not enough with that: if we were to follow the same strategy as the red-green ones did when they were in government, there is reason to ask questions about whether such a cost increase would be covered by government funds, or whether toll tariffs would be even higher in a red-green model. In addition, the government has presented a toll reform that allows for the use of lower calculation technical interest rates in the setting of the toll charges. Thus, provided that local and regional authorities agree, it is fully possible to significantly reduce the tariffs of this project. This was a scheme that the previous government did not implement. The majority of the proposed interest-reimbursement scheme proposed by the government could also result in further reductions in the rates. Government increases the State share of toll projects and facilitates lower tariffs. It's interesting to see that both the Workers' Party and the Centre's opposition have now been occupied by the same thing. But back to what I started with: this is a happy day for Helgeland. The decision on E6 Helgeland South today completes a continuous extension of E6 through Helgeland. It will have a major impact on value creation and growth throughout the region, and it will provide a new route, better accessibility, shorter travel time and increased road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1606	This is probably the last thing in the day, at least in the case of road construction. At E6 in Helgeland in Nordland it is very bad standard. It creates problems for road users, and it imposes great costs on business. In addition, the poor standard leads to reduced road safety. There are long distances in the north, so overall the whole project in Helgeland is about 260 km, while Helgeland in the south is about. 140 kilometers and what we're going to expand now is about 80 kilometers. The aim of the development is, of course, better accessibility and better road safety. Unfortunately, most transport projects have increased costs. Unfortunately, the cost to Helgeland South has also increased by about a quarter. 370 million. kr. The Fremskritsparte government suggests that the country takes almost all of that increase and covers 340 million. NOK 370 million, so only SEK 30 million. kr, or approximately 8 pst., is covered by tolls. The right-wing Party government wants the lowest possible toll burden for the drivers, and consequently we are committed to adopting the government's toll reform, which will also provide lower toll rates for the E6 through Helgeland. I record that the Senterpartiet highlights a desire to give 50 pst. a discount on heavy transport. It is gratifying that the Centre Party will now add to reduced toll rates, but for the Right and the Advance Party it is important that lower toll rates should benefit all drivers and not just any selected ones. Consequently, I call on the Centre Party to support the Toll Reform of the Right Party Government. According to VG, toll reform can give a total of 30 pst. lower tariff for all and not just for anyone. It is also interesting to note that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, point out that the toll burden has increased, and that they clearly want lower levels of bombing for this project in Northern Ireland. There are completely new signals from these batches, which usually want high-paying toll stations. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Central Party even claim that there is a clear discrimination between E6 Helgeland South and Helgeland North. I want to remind Stortinget that the state covers almost the entire cost increase in Helgeland South, and that the toll ratio is about 13 p.m., which is significantly lower than what was usual when the Workers' Party and the Senter Party were in government and were responsible for the road development. In principle, the tolls were to be a layer of fission between the State and the drivers, where costs were to be allocated about 50–50. But under the red-greens, this distribution was significantly altered in the driver's disfavor, and we have seen several examples of the drivers having to pay up to 100 pst. I also want to remind you that the toll ratio for Helgeland South is actually lower than for Helgeland North. For some strange reason, now suddenly the bulk of the population with the Workers' Party and the Center Party want to put the bomb on this project. It is gratifying that these batches, which are usually occupied by the most possible bomb, now suddenly want the least possible bomb and to limit the load on the drivers. I hope this is a new trend from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and that it is not just an isolated case that is incidentally based on the residence address of some representatives in the Committee. I very much appreciate the signals we get from Stortinget in this matter. I am just as pleased with the signals we received in the previous case when it comes to sideways bombing. Based on a clear desire for lower bombing rates, I look forward to dealing with the government's toll reform in Stortinget, and I expect full excitement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1629	As several have already stressed, it is gratifying that one can now start developing the last two parts of E6 on Helgeland, the route between the Nord-Trøndelag border and the Korgen, including the Brattåsen-Lien project. It's going to be 80 kilometers of road divided into nine sections. This route has been heavily damaged, with 142 accidents involving personal injury for the period 2005–2014. Of these, the whole nine were killed and 16 were severely damaged. The stretch is partly of a very poor standard and is strongly characterised by maturity. Outlying and meeting accidents account for the bulk of the accidents — evidence that road standards require extensive improvements. So even if socio-economic net benefits are negative, these accident rates, and not least the causes of the accidents, say that there is a need for extensive improvements. The project requires toll financing, although the state share here is unusually high compared to other road sections financed by tolls — in fact, over a total of 86.9 pst. of the total costs. We have also noticed that the cost increase of 370 million. kr is mainly covered by increased State contributions. We have also recorded that the toll load in the south of Helgeland has increased somewhat in relation to the starting point, and in this way it appears with a different arrangement than for the north of E6 Helgeland. The current low market interest rate provides the basis for making changes in the calculation technical interest rate used for toll loans. A more favourable level of interest rates could contribute to faster reductions in relation to original plans, lower toll rates, or a user's released funds to further invest in important improvements that could increase accessibility and improve road safety on the route in question. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the way in which a person uses this money that is released should be anchored among the local authorities – municipalities and county councils – that are most affected by the project. Then I register, also in this case, that the government parties do not want to establish toll collection sideways, but only after a period of traffic on the new road. We agree that it is important that all toll collection is perceived to be fair and relevant to road users. The reason why the government in this case proposes that the side road also get a toll station from day one, I see clearly in the documents about traffic leakage and road safety. In view of the fact that the municipalities concerned, the county, the directorate and the department recommend toll collection also sideways, and that it comes into place from the first day, I still find it strange that the government parties in Stortinget choose to ignore this unambiguous and professionally justified recommendation. I believe that the reason for this recommendation is that this is necessary in order to ensure the planned basis for the new road, i.e. to prevent traffic failures and increase road safety – in other words, a clear technical justification. This is not about whether you are in favour of or against tolls. Lateral roads have never been a strong contribution to toll financing and toll coating — they have been road safety or traffic leakage. I understand that this is also the reason here, and that's why I think it's weird when you're talking about being for or against tolls in a side-by-side issue. On the basis of this case, where toll levels were initially expected to be lower than those proposed here, it is not unnatural for a person to use the interest rate gain to reduce the tariff level. We in the Christian People's Party also understand that, and we expect the ministry, through good dialogue with local and regional authorities, to find a good solution for the use of these released funds. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1648	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation and a thorough presentation of the matter. The Workers' Party is pleased that the government is now following up the National Transport Plan of the Stoltenberg Government in this matter as well. The development of E6 Helgeland will ensure better standards and safer roads on an accident-prone route. This is part of the overall development of transport systems in the northern regions. For land-based transport, this means a priority of the E6, the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen in addition to the important cross-border national roads E10, E12, E8 and E105. The measures in NTP 2014-2023 will shorten the journey time between Bodø and Tromsø by 41 minutes. In addition, a decentralised airport network shall be maintained and further developed and the support for regional routes continued. During the planning period, the Northern Railway will have increased capacity – mainly through the development of cross-rails, and by improving the efficiency of the train running through full remote control throughout the route from Trondheim to Bodø. These are important investments in order to realise the opportunities in the north. It is then worrying that the government's withdrawal of the proposal for Helgeland south of the autumn of 2013 now means a likely delay of the entire project. The reason for the withdrawal was to look at the possibilities of reducing or removing the tolls. The result we are seeing today. As the toll load for Helgeland North went down, the government is now proposing to increase the toll load on Helgeland South. This is a clear discrimination between the drivers north and south of Helgeland and is also not in line with local policy assumptions. It is a fact that the Council of State is increasing the toll rate for Helgeland South by over 20 pst., $5 per bomb. It is in stark contrast to the performances and promises of the Right and Advance Party in the 2013 election campaign, where they promised to remove or reduce toll rates on the route. So this is going to be the opposite. How the voters of the government parties will describe the coup, I don't know, but at least they won't fulfill what they promised. I also note that the representative of the Progress Party Johnsen now seems to have a toll ratio of 13 p.m. is approved – yes, it is almost good. There are new signals from that party. For the Workers' Party it is important to emphasise local wishes. In this case, it is a local desire to stand at previous bombing rates and finance this by using the funds as a sheep as the effect of a lower interest rate. This will also give you a fair treatment of the drivers in Helgeland. I would like to stress the concern that the goal of completing the whole E6 Helgeland by 2020 is not met. The Minister of Transport also confirms this concern in a letter of 20 October 2015, concerning question 3 on completion, where he says that it is too early to say when the whole development is completed. Then it is not necessary to remind the Council of State that it is absolutely necessary to start quickly with the Kappskarmo–Brattåsen–Lien to complete the whole E6 Helgeland by 2020. I would also like to address the proposal that the Workers' Party has together with the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1674	Then the representative Karianne O. Heavyly took up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1677	This is going to be the third road project that we are now discussing, and that the Storting will most likely decide, a road project that has been wanted for decades, but which is only now in place. It's about being able to implement and not just discuss. Some of those who criticize and give the impression that things are not going fast enough are from the same parties that in 1962 produced a national motorway plan – without giving so much more than a very wide footbridge at Stovner. This dream is now being fulfilled in the case of E6 in Helgeland. The road must be built. The state takes most of the funding, and there will be a lower toll burden for people in Northern Ireland with today's government than that underlying the national transport plan of the previous government. I'm just pointing it out because those who are now criticising and later, like they're dissatisfied with the fact that there's tolls on this, even had the suggestion to have an even higher funding from the drivers in the projects. It doesn't seem to be reflected over it by those who criticize, but it's still a fact. The current development is necessary and important. Last summer we drove E6 from Svinesund to Kirkenes, and this route was one of the routes we discussed very thoroughly with the Vegvesen – in the car – about what grip should be done, both in terms of building new and maintaining what is. So now it's a project of almost 14 miles that the Stortinget decides – some places with relatively small traffic, some other places with more, but we know that during winter driving with some heavy cars, it feels unsafe for some of the private drivers who drive there. The development will reduce the journey time by 9 minutes for light cars and 11 minutes for heavy cars, and there will be 33 km less road with a speed limit lower than 80 km/h. So one gets a safer path at higher speed, and that makes socio-economic sense. Then there'll be a discussion about how to finance this. In the government's proposal, we have assumed that the project has become more expensive than originally planned, and that is simply because these are the Vegvesen estimates. With regard to how one covers that increase in costs, it is worth stressing, especially to the Workers' Party, which seems to have misunderstood a little, that the State actually takes a larger share of the exceedances than one originally envisaged as part of the financing of the project. So there's a relatively small proportion of these exceedances being added to the car lists, and it's very much the opposite of the policy of the previous government when it comes to overshooting. Then it was mostly the drivers who had to take all the extra costs. The working party has to correct me if I'm wrong, but now we have a government and a majority who are on the side of the drivers, as opposed to before. The interesting thing would have been about the Workers' Party – if they thought that the toll burden here was too high – then at least a proposal was made that said that the State had to take a greater share of the total cost of the project. That's not a suggestion. The working party criticises the toll rates, but it does not propose anything other than what is on the part of the government. Then this will be a game for the gallery from the Workers' Party, unfortunately. The fact that one is talking about changes that the government is making by using more real interest rates than computational interest rates to calculate the rates, yes, it's already in the government's proposal – there's nothing new about the Workers' Party. And we've also made it visible in the proposition. The proposition says that if we add base 10 pst. interest rate, we get a bomb rate of NOK 77, which is less than what local politicians had decided. But we also show that if we use the computational interest rate of 6.5 p.m., we get an increase, as the Workers' Party correctly points out, but a smaller increase than if we had taken the same distribution of state-tolls as a normal custom to do when the Workers' Party ruled. So here we have a complaint song from an opposition party that doesn't reflect on what they themselves practiced in government, and that doesn't take into account what this government is proposing, namely a toll reform that's going to base lower rates than what's at stake here. So here we get a better way, which is good for the people, who are good for business and good for heavy traffic, and we give ourselves room for action through the reforms of toll policy in reducing tariffs to a much lower level than what was under the previous government, and a much lower level than what one would have had if one had continued this in today's policy. I also remember what has been said by several representatives here: Helgeland South has a lower share of toll than Helgeland North, despite Helgeland North having increased government appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1702	I record that the minister is very busy talking about the Workers' Party in this matter. I'm going to ask the Council of State a question: Helgeland South is going to be partially expanded with so-called development contracts like what has been done on Helgeland North. In the north, we can now read from the draft state budget for 2016 that a cost margin has been set at around EUR 10 million. 450 million. kr. The state road authority says that this burden of costs can partly be attributed to the new way of developing a development contract. Then my question is, can we now feel confident that we will not get the same cost increase in Helgeland South?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1709	As the proposition shows, there has already been an estimated cost increase on the project, and that is something I hope does not cause us to get more as the project starts. Our goal – and it was very clear in the interview I had with the new road operator yesterday – is to build a better, faster and cheaper road through challenging systems. My goal in the work we do is simply to get the costs clearly on the table. We have to pick solutions and standards that make us get more money back just to keep the budget you get, and preferably lower than that. It is also worth remembering that, in the case of North Norway in general, North Norway receives a heavy extra bet on the trade with today's government. Now the county gets over 21 pst. of total national road investments, against less than 15 pst. Just a few years ago. We're going to keep the budget, we're going to have progress on projects, and we're going to be spending a lot of money in North Norway for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1718	It is interesting that the Minister refers to the Road Company when he answers about a route that is not in the Road Company. In the case of development contracts, will the Council of State consider the future use of development contracts in other projects when it is now made clear what consequences it can have for cost increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1725	If that question means that the Workers' Party has now become critical of development contracts, it's a little interesting, because this was the big victory case for the Workers' Party just a few years ago: it didn't have to set up a road company, it didn't have to carry out major reforms in the sector, because it was time to start using development contracts. That's what the Stoltenberg government put forward as its tool. If you now believe that it is a bad tool, yes, I will reflect a little on it, but it should certainly also be done by the Working Party. I refer you to the Road Company to show that this government is actually taking both large and small steps to get costs down. The airline is a big grip, but we also work closely on many individual projects to see how we can make the projects cheaper. As late as yesterday I sent a letter to the KS to invite them to join us and see how we can make changes in the way we build walking and cycling routes, to bring down costs there. Getting more money back is very important for this government after many years of high cost growth in the construction sector on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1732	It is understood that reference is made to the Road Company because you do not want to answer the question. One last question: The undersigned agrees that the State in this case is taking a large proportion of the exceedances, but the government is still proposing to increase the toll share. How is the government’s proposal to increase the toll share in this project in line with the Minister’s own promise in the autumn of 2013 to remove the tolls or to reduce the toll rates on the route in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1739	Let me just clarify, as I tried to do on the previous question, that we refer to the Road Company to show that we are both doing the major reforms and are entering into many individual projects, including the development of bicycle roads. So a lot has happened in many areas. It's a direct error, what the representative says -- the toll percentage actually goes down for this road project. Originally, the toll percentage was between 13 and 14 pst. From the exceedance, the drivers only take 8 pst. When you increase a project and take 8 pst. where you initially had 13 pst, there's a decrease in the proportion. But because the project is getting more expensive, it's true that there's going to be an increased cost for the drivers as well. But we've shown that we can solve this. For example, on page 7 of the proposal, which I suppose the representative has read, we show that through the toll reform and the lower interest rate, we come at a rate of SEK 73, which is lower than what one would have used in local politics. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is pleased with our actions. Then we just have to take into account that they are already proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1746	First, I would like to ask the State Council about the Kapskarmo–Brattåsen and Brattåsen–Lien sections, which have not fixed the start of construction – whether he can say anything more clearly than what is in the response to the Committee, and also whether it is possible to complete the whole project E6 Helgeland by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1751	The answer there is simply that we have to implement this as soon as possible. It looks at the appropriations we have made, that we have allocated more money to plan the road projects than we have planned. We have also increased the appropriations for road maintenance in relation to what had been done. We have made sure that more than ten new road projects have received State funding faster than that underpinned by the national transport plan. We want to build these projects. One has a constellation of government and greatness that thinks building roads is good for society. It's a little different signal than that one hears from different red-green constellations that have now taken power around the municipalities, and that look at road construction as a problem. I hope it doesn't apply exactly in Northern Ireland, but we're looking at the West and the East that red-green constellations are now trying to negotiate both standards and speed limits. I'm not going to think it's very funny. We are going to try to make the best possible progress and the fastest possible completion. There's so much going to happen here that's ahead of time, that coming up with a date for when we want to finish is a little too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1760	It is important for the whole package that you have the progress you really have made. I hope that the Council of State will follow up. I would like to ask – in the course of what the representative Mr. Tung raised – about the tolls that have increased in relation to the original plan. It's going to be $5 per pass. Will the Council of State engage in dialogue with Grane and Wefsn municipalities in order to achieve lower bombing rates, based on the calculation technical interest rate? This is a clear claim from the municipalities, which seems to have been unfairly treated in relation to the two municipalities that are further north.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1767	I remind you again that this project has become more expensive than what was in the national transport plan. When you get a higher cost level, you have to figure out how to cover it. We've done what the previous government didn't like to do, we've told the state to take a much larger share of the cost increase than what was in the project initially. We're taking a larger state share of the cost growth. That means that the toll share in the project goes down. That's the math. But by the fact that the drivers will also take some of the cost increase, the fares go up. That's exactly why we on page 7 of the Proposition have shown that by going into the computational interest rate – and in addition have shown that by having a toll reform to increase the government's appropriations for the toll project in general – we will be able to reduce the rate again, from NOK 85, if we had followed the red-green way of doing it, to NOK 73 and generally even lower, if we get a majority in Stortingen to grant additional government funds to projects. What's interesting in this debate is that we get criticism from an opposition that doesn't suggest any alternatives. So they have no alternatives to what we've proposed, but they're dissatisfied with what they've reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1777	In this case, both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have proposed how to resolve this in order to bring the bombings down to what was suggested to the population when the first proposition was made. So I think the Council of State should go in itself in terms of accusing us of not making proposals. One last question, it goes a little bit on what lies further south of the Nordic border, Namskogan. I know that the Council of State has run the route and know that there is a bottleneck problem on that section. Will it be possible to see if any of it can be solved in connection with this project more quickly than proposed? For heavy transport this is incredibly important to solve, both the fall of the Nams Forest and part of the bridges, which do not have enough carrying capacity to take heavy, long car trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1784	I'm going to take it first, because there's no doubt that there are a lot of Norwegian roads that need to be upgraded. I see that the Center Party here wants them to have a larger national transport plan than they themselves provided. We are accelerating a number of road projects. If we can also speed this up, we'll see. I would like to remind you once again that with regard to what the government has presented, there is nothing new in it as part of the opposition, the Labour Party and the Center Party, have suggested in the vote – everything has been taken from what the government has set up. A later on as if this was a new idea, that one should sell to the local population, but it's actually just a blue copy of what's on page 7 of the government's proposition. I take it as a good sign that we agree that we can use computational interest rates to bring down the tariffs. Then the big business and government together took a good step further. I hope that the Central Party and the Workers' Party will join in and support the government in that we will also grant money over the state budget and start cutting bomb tariffs. But the criticism that comes from the Center Party here is not followed up by a single crown to cut the bomb charges. That's a little sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1793	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1809	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1816	I would like to begin by thanking the other parties in the Cooperation Committee on the case for proposals for amendments to the Professional Transport Act, including a criminal offence fee linked to the award of service concession contracts. I would like to present in the speech the majority of the Committee's views, which also includes the views of the Labour Party. The Transport and Communications Committee, with the exception of one party, sees the need to make changes to the Professional Transport Act in order to ensure better compliance with rules on transparency and non-discrimination in the award of concession contracts relating to transport services under the Professional Transport Act. This is particularly the case in the field of public transport. The background to the amendment is that today the State does not have a legal basis for sanctions if there are breaches of the rules on transparency and non-discrimination for service concession contracts. This is contrary to service contracts falling within the scope of public procurement law. The legislative proposal provides for the Ministry of Transport to be able to impose a criminal charge on contracting authorities in the event of a breach of the rules. The county councils are currently responsible for local public transport. They normally provide for the provision of public transport services by concluding public service contracts, which are further compensated by compensation and/or exclusive rights. It is worth mentioning that most municipalities have put off or are in the process of putting out public public transport contracts. In this context, there is also a clear tendency for contracting entities to award service contracts instead of service concession contracts in the field of transport. The proposal in this case will not apply to service contracts and thus today's proposal will also have a somewhat more limited effect. The Government’s proposal means that the criminal charge will be imposed only if the breach of the law has been found by a Norwegian court of law, by the EFTA Court of Justice or by the Norwegian Governing Authority following the proceedings before the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. The criminal offence fee may also not exceed 15 pst. the contract value, and when measuring the fee, account shall be taken of the different circumstances of the case. It is important to point out that the crime charge is not a penalty or is not to be imposed by the police or the courts. Today’s legislative proposals have been sent to the general hearing, and 22 hearing bodies have provided a hearing response in the case. The Transport Committee notes that the Ministry has taken into account some of the hearing replies in its proposed amendments. The majority of the Committee supports the amendments made to the Professional Transport Act and points out that the proposal will contribute to greater equal treatment of service contracts and service concession contracts. The majority of the Committee has no other objection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1839	A number of EEA cases are adopted more routinely in Stortinget. In some cases it's all right, in other cases there's more cause for concern. The issue we have to deal with today is in the last category. I have come to the conclusion that the proposal for a solution which the government is promoting and to which the majority of the committee subscribes is not appropriate. Firstly, it is because the conditions on which the proposal is intended to remedy are in time. Secondly, it may seem that the government here is a little eager to be the world champion of EU adaptation, and at the expense of the county municipalities. I would like to take the opportunity to stress that Norway does not have an obligation to impose a criminal charge of the kind proposed by the government. The Norwegian authorities shall ensure that infringements of the EEA rules are corrected, but it should be possible to do so in ways that are more flexible and different from those proposed by the Government. I should have liked the government to have spent more time investigating other instruments than this fee. It is of particular concern that the proposal provides that the government may levy a fee on unilateral recognition by the Norwegian authorities after examination by the EFTA Surveillance Authority. In particular, given that the fee may be substantial, there is a need to emphasise the principles of legal certainty. After all, there is talk of a potentially serious penalty for the activity being affected. Let me remind you that the LO warns against the proposal because it will ‘degrade our national right of self-determination’. LO reminds us that experience from time to time will come in ‘situations in which national interests would conflict with the overall objectives of the EU, in which case it would be restrictive for the development of services to already have a legislative framework allowing for the imposition of large fees in the event of non-compliance with EEA law’. And equally interesting: LO would accept the proposal to authorise the Ministry to impose such a fee for infringements of EEA law ‘if only a Norwegian court decision had been taken on the basis of the department’s powers to charge a fee’. I have also reviewed the statements of Akershu County and Router: ‘It is apparent from point 4.6 of the proposal that the Norwegian authorities may grant the waiver at any stage of the ESA proceedings and that it is not necessary for the ESA to take formal steps in the matter before such recognition takes place.’; Akershus County Council and Ruter believe that there is “a maximum real risk of situations where the Ministry considers that there has been a breach of the rules, whereas the contracting entity considers that it is not”, and that it has not been given that the Ministry and the management company consider that grey zone cases are similar. [[the management company]] The KS Company has also delivered a hearing opinion criticising the proposal. In particular, the organisation is concerned that there is a problem with ‘strongly different sanctioning systems within the different parts of the procurement right’. KS The company is particularly critical of the possibility that the government can unilaterally admit crimes and as a result impose a fee. The organisation argues as follows: ‘The freedom of the ministry to accept liability with effect from concessionaires, based only on a dialogue between ESA and the ministry, is difficult to accept. Not only is the scheme problematic in relation to basic legal certainty guarantees as counter-dictation. The proposal is also problematic in terms of private autonomy.' All this makes me unable to support the committee's recommendation in this matter, and I will recommend the Centre Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1874	The Government has made proposals to the Storting to amend the Professional Transport Act in order to allow the Ministry to impose an infringement fee on contracting entities if they violate the rules on the purchase of public transport services in road and maritime transport. The infringement fee rules will only apply to service concession contracts and, following the proposal, the fee will be imposed if a breach of the law has been found, either by a judgment of a Norwegian court, by a judgment of the EFTA Court, or by the admission of infringements by Norwegian authorities after the case has been dealt with by ESA. The infringement fee may not exceed 15 pst. of the contract value. This proposal has been promoted in the light of the need to ensure greater compliance with the rules for the award of concession contracts in the transport sector. They fall outside the public acquisition legislation and therefore cannot be sanctioned under this legislation. The need for greater compliance with the legislation has been updated by the fact that ESA has raised twice the issue of breach of the EEA Agreement when the county has concluded public transport service concession contracts. Norway admits breach of the EEA Agreement in both of these cases. We want this proposal to ensure that the legislation is complied with in the future. This is a somewhat dry matter, but which is nevertheless necessary in order to get a regulation that allows some public transport companies to move forward. There's nothing that one just found the simplest and fastest solution to. I also thought the previous government parties knew that this had occurred in the systems for a long time, and that is why I am glad that almost all the parties in the Stortinget are involved in putting what will be a dot for the problem, and that we now have to make changes to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1883	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1897	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1904	This case deals with the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject for 2014. There may be grounds for recalling that privacy concerns the right to privacy and the right to decide about your personal data. It's all about privacy. In our treatment of the annual reports, we show that all people have an inviolable self-esteem. Individuals are entitled to a private sphere which is themselves controlled, where individuals can act freely without coercion or interference from the state or other people. The principle is enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which states: ‘Every person has the right to respect for his or her private and family life, home and correspondence.’ I would like to remind you that the Stortinget decided on 13 May 2014 to strengthen the protection of privacy by including the privacy provision in the Constitution. The data supervision shall help to ensure that the individual is not harmed by the use of information which may be linked to him or her. The Data Protection Authority was established on 1 January 1980 and is an independent administrative body under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The establishment is both supervision and representation in privacy matters. The annual reports provide a good overview of the activities of the Data Protection Supervisor and the data subject in 2014 and the priorities and issues that have shaped the work. In addition to the statutory tasks such as concessions, control and supervision, the Data Protection Authority shall also carry out extensive information and guidance activities. It appears that, in addition, the Data Protection Authority has chosen to work more closely on some issues that confront society with some specific challenges and go beyond the annual reporting period. The communication mentions privacy challenges in the health, school and education sectors, the justice sector and the digitisation of the public sector. It is positive that these areas are being worked on in the long term. It is also a particularly important and necessary work to increase knowledge of privacy in kindergartens and schools. This is about ensuring good procedures for the processing of personal data, but also about increasing knowledge of network and privacy among children and young people who spend a lot of time in social media. Furthermore, in the final phase, the EU is adopting a new regulation on privacy. This is an important work that will also affect Norway, and it will be necessary in due course for Norwegian data protection authorities to prioritise both the implementation, the building of the necessary competences and outreach information. The Communication refers to close monitoring by the Data Protection Authority of the digitisation of the public sector. Although there has been a great development, the supervision indicates that a lot of work remains, and that it is important to continue to follow the work closely. In sharing and re-use of personal data, the principle of the appropriateness of data protection law is challenged. Clear responsibilities are important. Inhabitants need to be provided with good information, including: the bodies which process and exchange information about them and the purpose for which it is done. It also highlights the importance of creating understanding, including in the public sector, of the usefulness of just good data protection and of contributing to compliance with the rules. In 2014, the Data Protection Authority revised its ‘Strategy on Privacy in the Digitalisation of the Public Sector’. Through inspections, it was found that there was a continuous feature that many public enterprises do not have satisfactory procedures to comply with the data protection obligations. They could not establish significant differences between country and municipality, regional differences or size-related differences. However, such findings provide a good basis for further follow-up. I will also mention a matter that the majority of the Committee, the Right, the Labour Party and the Progress Party have pointed out, namely that there are ongoing processes from the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice that are likely to clarify the legal status of data storage and privacy. That majority considers it natural to assess the Norwegian legislation when such clarification has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1937	‘Never has there been more attention to privacy issues and there have never been greater requirements for the Data Protection Authority’, says the Director of the Data Protection Authority, Bjørn Erik Thon, in the introduction to the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. He's probably right in it, and it's for good reason it's like this. Our digital reality is changing enormously rapidly and has given completely new opportunities to cross the boundaries of privacy for those who have access and competence to exploit the technology currently available. Privacy has a high value in our society. The Committee shall refer to the European Convention on Human Rights, which shall read as follows: ‘Every person has the right to respect for his or her private and family life, home and correspondence.’ Yes, this is the ideal, but not the constant practice, which we have learned a lot about through the disclosure of data collection and monitoring, also by national authorities towards other countries' inhabitants. But privacy is also a matter of protecting people from involuntary publicity about private relationships through social media. In our time, with Facebook as an important channel for the exchange of information between people, the possibility of eradicating information that one has published itself, or that others have put on about one, has become a major issue. The ‘right to be forgotten’ is given a broad and significant reference in the Storing Message. Reference is made to the fact that the right to have information deleted, blocked or otherwise made available to the public has been strengthened by decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union last year. It states that the Department will follow closely the international developments around the «right to be forgotten». I agree with the assessments given in the notification when it is stated: ‘In a society where more and more information is being recorded, made available, collected and made searchable, it is important to avoid excessive burden on individuals from publicly available information.’ I believe that this is important to establish, and join in the assessments that even if information was registered on a voluntary and legitimate basis in due course, it must also be granted the right to have it removed in terms of personal and private matters. In a comment from the majority of the Committee, which includes the Centre Party, we express a particular concern for children and young people and the sharing of personal data about and from this group. It is important that the Data Protection Authority contributes to the provision of information to this group, and to the school and parents, in order to develop awareness that privacy needs to be given special attention to information from and on children and young people. Both Norway and the EU have now left behind the discussion on the Data Storage Directive. It is now generally accepted that the EU directive would introduce, and to which we wanted to join, is contrary to privacy considerations, among other things. as laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. I note that the majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party will not give up entirely yet. They show in their comments that there are ongoing proceedings between the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice that will clarify the legal status of data storage and privacy. That majority considers that Norwegian legislation can be reviewed once such clarification has been made in the EU system. From the centre party we are pleased that the data storage directive has now been abolished. We believe that it strengthens privacy that the Directive and the adaptation to it are no longer relevant in Norway. The fight for the Data Storage Directive was a major debate in Norway. It was about our right to take national decisions in areas that are important to us. And privacy is such an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1975	For the Left, strong protection of individual privacy is essential for freedom and for democracy. Freedom requires protection against undue registration, monitoring and interference in private life. The right to privacy is still being challenged. But for a liberal judiciary, it is important that this right is respected. Here, the Data Protection Authority plays a very important role. In addition to the statutory tasks — grant concessions, provide control and supervision — the Data Protection Authority also carries out extensive information and guidance activities. I would like to mention here in particular the web service you decide, which is a centre for ICT training with the support of the Data Protection Authority. The service is aimed at children and young people aged 9-18 years. The aim of the scheme is to increase awareness, reflection and knowledge of privacy and the choices young people make by using digital media. Digital judgment is about making students responsible and secure network users. This is the necessary knowledge that today’s young people need to meet the digital everyday life. Technological developments are creating new challenges for privacy, and the Left therefore believes that public responsibility for safeguarding citizens' privacy is becoming increasingly important. Data protection and data protection are at the heart of this work, and the annual reports presented by the Left show that considerable efforts have been made in a number of areas. We will highlight the Ombudsman role of the Data Protection Authority, including the ability and willingness of supervision to contribute to knowledge in the field of privacy and participate in important debates, such as: on the intelligence capability to operate more general surveillance over the Internet and the international exposure related to ‘Big Data’. Digitalisation has led to a growing use of communication technologies as citizens. This challenges privacy. To meet this, it needs cross-border cooperation in order to ensure the rights of users. I would like to point out here that the EU is now in the final phase of adopting a new regulation on privacy. This is an important work that will also affect Norway. It is proposed here, among others. establishing a European body, the EDPB, where all national supervisory authorities are represented. The left opposed the introduction of the Data Storage Directive. I would therefore also like to mention that the Data Storage Directive, which was adopted in the EU in 2006, and adopted in Norwegian law by the majority of Storting in 2011, was declared void by the European Court of Justice in 2014. According to the study of the Ministry of Social Security and the Ministry of Justice and Defence by Professor Hans Petter Graver at the University of Oslo and lawyer Henning Harborg from the law firm Thommess of 1 October 2015, Norwegian data storage legislation – which has not entered into force – is most likely not compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, the Left considers that the data storage directive, and its Norwegian adaptation to it, are no longer relevant for its implementation in Norway. The left considers that there is reason for concern that the management of access to patient information in electronic patient records is not satisfactory. Reference is made to the fact that, in the context of the supervision of three hospitals, the Data Protection Authority revealed serious breaches of access management provisions. The left considers it worrying when the Data Protection Authority asks whether the health sector is ready to meet the requirements necessary to open up the access granted in the new patient record law. The left is concerned with children and young people, who are often major consumers of digital media, and are therefore particularly vulnerable to the monitoring and unlawful sharing of personal data and other sensitive information. We have also called for the creation of a child's data protection commission. Furthermore, we will highlight the importance of the work of the Data Protection Board on children and young people and look with concern at the fact that kindergartens and schools do not have satisfactory procedures to fulfil the obligations of the Data Protection Act. All registrations of a child through an entire educational cycle constitute a set of information that gives a comprehensive and detailed picture of the child’s development, professional and social behaviour. The records are made without the consent of the child and the information can be easily disseminated and misused for purposes other than those intended. Therefore, we believe that both school owners and kindergarten owners, employees, children and parents must have a strong awareness of privacy and that the guidance work of the Data Protection Authority in this area is very important. Privacy is still under threat, but with citizens involved in society and state supervision, we can jointly manage our liberal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e1996	Privacy is an important topic in our common everyday life. Digital development challenges privacy in new ways. Our privacy is being put under pressure. The annual messages to both the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority show this with great clarity. They give a picture of the extent of the work that has been done and the work that needs to be done. I am therefore pleased with the Committee's consideration of the communication, and that the Committee takes seriously the challenges that privacy faces with digital development. I am committed to renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. In this work, privacy is a necessary foundation. Good data protection is important in order to establish trust in the solutions chosen. Good data protection is also a prerequisite for citizens to use the solutions. Data protection is an important player in this work. The annual report shows that they made significant efforts in the year that went on and that they will meet the challenges of privacy on an ongoing basis. I'm happy with this. The fourth year was an important year for privacy. As part of strengthening national human rights, the right to privacy is enshrined in a new provision of the Constitution § 102. This was an important marking of privacy as a fundamental human right. In the EU, the so-called right to be forgotten was strengthened by a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union which enhanced the right of European citizens to have their own search results removed from search engines on the Internet. This was an important decision that is also followed up in Norway. Strengthening of data protection continues. A new regulation on privacy is now working in the EU. It's in the final phase. Once the regulation has been finally adopted in the EU, the government will give priority to implementing the rules of Norwegian law. We have also recently received a new, important judgment from the European Court of Justice. The Court found the so-called Safe Harbour scheme, i.e. the scheme on the simplified transfer of personal data between the EU/EEA countries and the United States is invalid. This means that the rules on the transfer of personal data between the EU/EEA countries and the United States are changing. I will follow developments in the EU closely in the wake of the decision and work to ensure that all actors have clear rules to deal with. The commercialisation of personal data has recently been on the agenda. New technologies allow large amounts of data to be collected and analysed. Consumers receive personalized advertising. The direction of society towards so-called large data is often strongly opposed to data protection principles, in particular the principle that no more personal data should be processed than is necessary for the purpose of collection. Consumers are often not sufficiently aware of what information they provide using digital services or how this information can be compiled and analysed to form profiles of the consumer. A U.S. survey shows that people declare resignation as their main reason for giving away personal data in exchange for so-called free services. People feel powerless and feel that they have no choice. I believe it is important that the government is actively working to strengthen the privacy of consumers using digital services. In this work, data protection and consumer authorities need to cooperate in order to find good solutions. At the same time, international cooperation is important. The government believes that everyone should be able to have their own personal data as far as possible. I would like to point out the importance of the right of access. It must be possible to refuse to share personal data and yet access services, both digital services and others. Only in this way can individuals themselves be able to maintain their own privacy and set their own limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2015	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2029	The proposal deals with both the proposal for a law setting reference interest rates and some proposals for a law amending financial legislation, and I will briefly mention some of the proposals. In concrete terms, new legal rules on the setting of so-called reference interest rates, such as Nibor, are proposed in a separate law setting reference interest rates. The legislative proposal intends to bring the setting of Norwegian reference rates under public regulation and supervision. Today, the proposal will, in practice, include one framework – Nibor. The proposal implies that a framework governed by public law for reference interest rates will ensure a clear legal basis for public intervention if current practice does not function properly. Proposals for amendments to the Securities Trading Act are also made for the Ministry to be authorised by the Securities Trading Act to lay down detailed rules on the addition of prospectuses in the regulation. It is proposed that the provision of § 6-11 of the Swedish Securities Fund Act be repealed. This provision regulates the management company’s access to the lending of financial instruments on behalf of the unit trust. The Ministry proposes that the provision be replaced by an authorisation to provide rules on the use of portfolio management techniques. The Ministry also proposes an amendment to the Securities Fund Act § 6-10 so that the management company can, on behalf of the mutual fund, provide the fund's funds as collateral for contracts entered into in order to achieve efficient portfolio management. The aim of the amendments is to contribute to the establishment of the regulatory framework for lending financial instruments in accordance with the lending market, as it operates in practice, and to align it with developments in the EEA territory. The proposal proposes a new provision in Section 6-7 of the Securities Fund Act on the ability of investment funds to combine different positions with one issuer. The proposal implements EEA rules equivalent to the UCITS Directive, Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, nature. 52, second paragraph, in Norwegian law. [[5]] Proposals are also made for amendments to Section 9 of the Financial Supervision Act on the equalisation of expenditure by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The proposal provides for a simplified system of equalisation, the degree of discretion being reduced and the rules for equalisation more precisely laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. It is proposed to continue the main principle of equalisation of supervisory expenditure on the institutions subject to supervision according to the scope of supervisory work. The Ministry also proposes to repeal the existing provision that the supervisory proposal for equalisation must be approved by the Ministry. The proposal provides that the Ministry may lay down more detailed rules on the allocation of expenditure within each group. The proposal also amends the rules on the allocation of costs for the supervision of the rules of conduct in the securities market, as well as rules on the allocation of expenditure relating to the general work on infrastructure in the securities market. The Ministry of Finance submits proposals for the introduction of a basis in the new Financial Enterprise Act whereby the Ministry may provide for an obligation for financial undertakings to link price information to price information in online price portals. Some amendments to the Financial Undertakings Act Chapter 21 etc., proposals for implementing Regulation 248/2014 on cross-border payments in euro and proposals for some other minor adjustments and amendments to several other laws are proposed. It is a unanimous opinion of the Financial Committee that recommends that the Storting should join the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2052	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2058	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2066	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Ruth Grung, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 6 and 7, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No. 10, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a legal selection to establish a statutory right to be followed up at a distance if you have two chronic disorders or more.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2099	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to await the introduction of the law on individual prostheses for a thorough evaluation of the professional neutral law.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of healthcare in the municipalities in the notification schemes of the National Knowledge Centre and the State Health Authority.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2123	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to investigate the liquidation of public health funding for municipal health services.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an adequate monitoring of the recruitment situation in Norwegian nursing homes, where care factors and the number of employees in jobs from different occupational groups are identified, in order to ensure a significantly better decision-making basis for equivalent health services.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2147	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to submit an evaluation of the immediate provision of help in municipalities before extending the offer to patients with mental and drug problems.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2164	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for some alternative ways of financing prevention work in the primary health service, including public-resource-funded services, with a view to preventing in a knowledge-based and cost-effective way.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2183	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case that clarifies and ensures future financing of local medical centres.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch an investigation into different organisational models for enhanced cooperation between permanent and other parts of the municipal health service.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the responsibility of decision-makers for the preparation of the individual level and follow-up of patients at risk of developing poor health.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2219	The attitude is promoted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, so the President assumes that the other parties will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2230	I wonder if there is anything wrong here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2235	I think I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2240	The working party shall vote against it, says the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2245	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2289	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2–4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to change the funding scheme for the midwife service in the light of an evaluation of the cost scheme for midwives, in order to make it more attractive for municipalities to hire midwives. New funding arrangements must stimulate interaction between primary and specialist health services and decentralised services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the training capacity of midwives complies with the objectives of the Stortinget for the midwife service.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for increasing the use of full-time jobs in the municipal midwife service, in order to prevent apostasy and ensure the socially beneficial use of the 5-year education skills of midwives.’ The voting boards showed that 84 votes were cast against and 15 votes for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.01.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2322	I voted in favour, but I had to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2327	Then the votes are 85 against and 14 for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures to improve the quality and capacity of the midwifery service in the municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The President makes it clear that this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2420	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party Proposal No. 2, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to propose that the State should in the future act as a guarantor of borrowing in the toll companies where the Stortinget has approved toll financing. The government is thus asked to change its practice in order to exempt municipalities and county councils from the obligation to provide such loan guarantees.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2446	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Ministry of Transport be authorised to conclude an agreement with the local authorities of Grane and Wefsn municipalities to reduce toll tariffs as a result of lower interest rates. The economic scope is the difference between the theoretical cost of financing with an interest rate of 6,5 pst. and a calculation technical interest rate of 2,8 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2550	The central party has announced that they will vote against it. The vote boards showed that 80 votes were cast in favour and 13 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.03.46]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2559	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2564	Since there are several representatives who have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2577	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e2591	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e3388	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e3398	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-12.ana.ud1784e3410	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
