ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e76	The representative Svein Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The President of Parliament is on an official visit to Norway. She's here today at the mall. [[Applause from the Chamber]] It's a great pleasure to wish her and her delegation welcome to the Parliament. It is a tradition that the first official foreign visits as President of Denmark and President of Norway take place between the Stortinget and Folketinget. This strengthens the close and good relations between our parliaments. I hope that guests will have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that the visit will contribute to even closer cooperation between Denmark and Norway and between our parliaments. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e86	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e89	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Pål Farstad, Ketil Kjenseth and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to improve road safety for cycling across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e94	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e108	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e122	I'll be brief. This is a matter which, with a small exception, is completely unanimous from the committee, but I must nevertheless within a few moments which I believe are of importance. Firstly, Norway is among the OECD countries with the lowest implementation in higher education. It's not that the implementation rate alone says everything about the quality of the education system we have, but it probably says a little. In any case, there is a goal set by the Storting to increase the level of implementation. When it is found that Norway has such a low level of implementation compared to other countries, it may be natural to refer to an explanation that Norway has free access to higher education, thus lowering the threshold both for starting and finishing studies. But then you can remember that, for example. Denmark, which also has free access to higher education, is one of the OECD countries with the highest level of implementation. It tells us that today's situation doesn't necessarily have to be like this in the future. There may be quite other things that determine whether the students complete or not. The Committee also notes that the implementation of the study seems to be independent of the number of part-time students and the quality of admission of students. Although there is little basis for concluding a bastant, this suggests at least that there is a significant scope for influencing the implementation of the study through interventions that individual institutions themselves can use — and of course they should. Since the introduction of the quality reform in 2003, the production of credits has increased by 1.5 points per student on average. It is a modest increase, far below the expectations of the Storting, but it must also be pointed out that even a modest increase, as we see here, will, of course, have a major impact on society from a macro perspective. Otherwise, an average of 45.5 study credits per year was produced over the survey period, compared to the expected output of 60 study credits. So there is a significant difference between expectations and results, but I think many people will agree that in a situation where production is 60 study points per year on average, it is neither possible nor perhaps not desirable. It's not possible because man will never be able to deliver 100 pst. over time. Some will necessarily get sick, iron out for exams, etc. I also think there is a consensus that it is not necessarily entirely desirable either, because, in my opinion, it is a good thing that you can combine studies with, for example, studies. having children, being a sportsman or whatever it might be. Of course, more full-time students and faster implementation are and should be a goal, but you will never be able to create a rigid system that suits all people in a society – it's a utopia. The high rate of non-response undoubtedly leads to a loss of resources for both society and the individual student, but the Committee, as stated in the recommendation, is satisfied that the Council of State is following the theme of the governance dialogue with the institutions and that NOKUT is also paying this attention in its work. Another issue that needs to be followed up is that the statistical basis needs to be improved so that full-time students can be effectively distinguished from part-time students. Otherwise it will be completely impossible to assess whether we have come any way. It is nice to note that this work has also begun. Otherwise, the Riksrevision report shows that the implementation measured against the students’ own education plans is significantly better than measured against what is called normal time. I don't want to say that that means that the expectation of 60 produced credits per year is too ambitious, but it certainly illustrates that a good part of the difference between expectations and results is a product of the students' own and pre-planned progress plans. After all, it's better than 25 pst. by the students are grossly underperforming against their will. This also illustrates the need for a better statistical basis, as mentioned earlier. The Committee notes that the implementation of studies is only to some extent considered to be a good criterion for measuring quality in higher education. That is to the extent a reasonable conclusion. There are obviously many reasons why the implementation of the study varies, not just the quality of education, but the Committee will stress how important it is that we have objective quality indicators for the sector. We need that if we are to have a public discussion about quality in higher education, and we should have that on a continuous basis. It is therefore also nice to note that the Council of State gives notice of its own notification of quality in higher education, which is likely to come to treatment in the United Kingdom in 2017. In conclusion, I would like to add that it may be a reasonable assumption that it may sometimes be difficult to come back to studies, even after shorter absences. This could mean that an absence that might only have been a few weeks becomes an entire semester. Of course, you should avoid absence at all, but zero percent of sick leave is hardly the first. In many fields of study it is also common, and even desirable, with ‘interships’ placed in the middle of the semester. Therefore, it may be appropriate to consider whether more use of podcasts or similar aids could be an appropriate measure. I personally believe that it can have an effect in many places. However, this should not be interpreted as a request decision. It is only a polite tip from the Committee that the Council of State itself must consider whether or not it will take a closer look. I would otherwise like to add that the Committee agrees with the recommendations made by the Riksrevision, and I refer to the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e148	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work and for the introduction. There's no disagreement in the committee, but when I asked for the word, it's because what I'm writing here is something more than a polite tip. It's serious, not just for society, but for the individual student, that one has such a low degree programme. It's a problem, it's something that needs to be done, and it's something that the Council of State needs to analyse the causes. There is a separate notification of quality, which, in my opinion, must be included, is also an analysis of why one is in the same situation. It is fairly well known that the funding system for the institutions is today with regard to the students we are talking about here, it is beneficial to have many students. There are a number of examples of study places that I would like to say – to be careful – take on top of students in relation to both what they have of locations and not least of teaching powers to carry out the teaching in a good way. It is probably a reasonably safe hypothesis that there is a correlation between the number an institution is stimulated to have, and that offer you can give, and if that offer is too weak, a greater non-response. So I'm going to ask that the Council of State in its statement now goes into something about it, whether it's outside of what we've said, but it's serious when there's a unanimous committee that points this out, and that one then also analyses the relationship between the study implementation and the funding system that is. It is probably also a reasonable hypothesis that a framework funding could satisfy different considerations in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e157	I do not think what Mr Skutle said was that the Committee's comments in general were a kind tip. I guess he was more specific on exactly this with podcasts and the use of podcasts. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Lundtegen that this is a serious situation. What might make it even more serious is that ten years ago – the quality reform – there was a reform that had a lot to do, which had quite a broad cross-political upturn, and which was supposed to do something about this, but which, on the whole, at the macro level, has not succeeded in getting the implementation up. So this government and I have been very busy with quality. Before I say anything about the specific issues and how to follow them up specifically in the light of the Riksrevisions report, I want to just place the quality work in a slightly larger context. We are now undertaking a major structural reform in the university and higher education sectors. The aim of this reform is not to get larger units in themselves, as an objective, but to strengthen professional environments and improve the quality of education. We believe that bigger and stronger, more robust institutions could – I stress – also contribute to better implementation. We are also committed to strengthening the role of NOKUT as a quality insurer in the sector. I have recently sent to the hearing a proposal on a wide range of legislative and regulatory changes for NOCUT with a view to strengthening both the control and quality functions of NOCUT. The way institutions operate in implementation is part of the control activities of NOKUT. As mentioned above, the government is also working on its own communication to the Stortinget on quality, where quality is discussed in a broad sense, but including, of course, implementation and non-response. That message will be promoted for Stortinget in spring 2017. Then the Riksrevision's investigation confirms things we've been doing for a long time. Ten years after the quality reform, implementation remains weak, and efforts to strengthen implementation have largely achieved few results. I believe that we should not be satisfied with – and I am not satisfied with – that we have not seen significant improvements in implementation ten years after the quality reform. I have therefore noted the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and will follow up in several ways. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry follow up on the more active use of educational institutions of the possibilities they have for strengthening the implementation of studies by targeted actions including the organisation of studies, forms of education and the professional quality of the place of study. The Ministry has well-established procedures for monitoring the implementation of institutions. These include: a central theme of the governance dialogue between the ministry and the institutions. However, I would like to strengthen the governance dialogue in this field and be even clearer about the expectations of the institutions' follow-up to the students. I fully agree and believe, as the National Audit Office and the Committee, that there is scope for institutions to take action to strengthen the implementation of the study to a greater extent than at present. I would like to express clear expectations to the institutions about this in the future. In other words, even though the representative Lundtägen has something very important to say, that there may be complicated causal links here, and this is also pointed out in the Riksrevision report, for example. access to education for everyone, that there is no study money and that kind of thing, and also that we don't control the sector very closely in the sense that we don't go in and control in detail what kind of programs are set up and not, and in general, what kind of intake requirements you should have, is nevertheless, I believe, within today's system also room for better work to get implementation up. The National Audit Service also recommends the introduction of indicators which can better illustrate the quality of higher education than the implementation indicator. I agree that implementation alone is not sufficient to illuminate the quality of higher education. Nevertheless, I want to keep the implementation of the study as one of several indicators of quality, because it has a value in itself for the students to finish the studies, both as a measure of resource effort and efficiency in education, and not least in terms of students themselves and the social economy. The Government has the ambition to develop better indicators and parameters to measure quality in higher education. I would therefore already like to ask in the 2016 allocation letter to the institutions for a report on more governance parameters for implementation than before. I have also proposed the introduction of a candidate indicator into the funding system for universities and higher education institutions, which the representative Lundtigen affected. The idea is simply, as the representative Lundtegen very well described, which is a good analysis, that today's system pays too much for quantity, and does not have clear enough quality reward. What we have proposed is that you should also have a candidate indicator, in other words that universities and colleges should also be rewarded for their full implementation, not just for students taking study credits, as they do today. The rates for this will be presented in the 2017 state budget. The national audit also states that the statistical basis for monitoring implementation can be improved, including: by making a clearer distinction between full-time and part-time students. This work has already started under the auspices of the Joint Study Administrative Service Centre (FSAT) and will be followed up further in the Department. We will also discuss the need for further indicator development in the sector in the forthcoming Quality Communication. Then I have also noted that the National Audit Office considers that the education plans are more suited to the student's study situation than an effective tool to increase student credit production. This will also be addressed by the Ministry in the governance dialogue. At the same time, it is important to maintain that each educational institution is responsible for facilitating students to carry out their studies at a normal time. But we need more knowledge about this, so in addition, I want to outsource an external mission to increase the knowledge base on institutions' use of education plans. The results of the mission will be discussed in the coming quality notification. I have also noticed the Committee's comments. In the coming quality report we will look at how other countries it is natural to compare us with, among others. Denmark, has addressed important challenges related to, inter alia: implementation and non-response. We will also look at the knowledge base on how students learn and what are effective forms of teaching. In summary, I want to say that we're working on quality. We are also concerned about the implementation. I agree with the Riksrevision's diagnosis, and I agree with the Committee's points. Our contribution is not only a quality message, it is also working on a better statistical and governance basis, strengthening the governance dialogue and also changing the framework conditions. In the end, when it comes to the good tip about podcasts, that's a good tip. It's probably also such a good tip that very, very many institutions are already doing this today. The next big discussion is probably not only about podcasts, but also about the use of e.g. reverse classrooms, MOOC – Massive Open Online Courses – and several types of digital tools, enabling students to learn more and perhaps better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e193	I asked for the word that there should be no ambiguity about what I said. As the Council of State went on to say, the funding of the places of study is linked to the way the places of study behave, and thus to the quality and quantity of the study. I have not made myself a spokesman for more detailed requirements and rules in relation to the places of study; I have, on the contrary, turned myself into a spokesman for the very opposite, namely that the places of study must have framework funding. Thus, one in practice will rely more on the management of the study places, because in the study places it is genuine self-interest that the study places are well run, and that one gets out good candidates. It is the preoccupation of any management to be able to show good results. Then there must be an interaction between the intention and the body spirit that is at the place of study and the funding that the place of study receives from the overall authority. This is where we're still going in the wrong direction and taking away the authority that they need, through a financing model that overrides the professionalism of it, and will lead us into difficulties. That was my main point, which I hope the Council of State is doing a thorough analysis of. The Monitoring Committee has discussed in several contexts the organisation, culture and management of the public sector. Now, what I'm saying is in line with the experience we have in other areas as well. In this area, I know that there are many competent managers and professionals at the places of study who are concerned that the funding system does not interact with what is intended, and what is the sincere desire of management and students to have quality education.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e214	I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and we are now going to deal with a position by the Committee on Control and Constitution regarding the examination of the authorities' work on increased oil extraction from mature areas on Norwegian continental shelf. The aim of the study has been to highlight the use of oil resources in mature areas on Norwegian soil and to assess how the Ministry of Oil and Energy’s management contributes to increased extraction. The main findings of the Riksrevision are: There is a risk that socio-economically profitable oil resources in mature areas will not be extracted in time. The Oil Directorate does not have sufficient implementation in the follow-up to projects where increased extraction is time-critical. There is a need to strengthen the follow-up of coordination opportunities across extraction authorisations. The Ministry of Oil and Energy uses to a limited extent the instruments available to ensure increased extraction in mature areas. Petoro's capacity limits the company's ability to maximise the value of the State's direct financial involvement. In the light of the report, the Committee has made some joint comments, and we first point to the establishment of a clear framework for the development and operation of oil extraction on the Norwegian continental shelf in order to ensure good long-term management of petroleum resources and the preservation of other societal interests. This implies that long-term, comprehensive and effective solutions must be taken into account from the development of the fields to the closure. efficient use of resources in mature areas. In several of the fields in operation, there are large remaining resources. The average extraction rate of oil from oilfield is approximately 47 pst. on Norwegian pedestal. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Greens, also believes that the objective must be to further increase the rate of extraction. An increase of 1 pst. in the degree of extraction from the operating oil fields would give additional oil with a gross sales value of more than 200 billion. kr, even with today's relatively low oil price. The committee has divided into various different comments, and I'm not going to go into it. I mention that those parties with perhaps a slightly larger environmental exposure, respectively the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party, underline in the statement that regardless of what one might think about the pace and extent of Norwegian oil extraction, it can be both environmentally and socio-economically sensible with the greatest possible extraction rate in existing areas rather than opening up new ones. Furthermore, we show that a main reason why resource use in mature areas has not been higher is that the number of new extraction permits increased significantly between 2006 and 2013 and that the main focus for both companies and governments has been on new areas instead of increasing the rate of exploitation of existing ones. In our view, this is a short-term policy and a policy which is also a key explanation of the escalating increase in cost levels in the industry during the same period. In addition, the SV and the Left indicate that it makes sense to reduce the number of extraction permits granted, and we believe that access by industry to new extraction permits through the concession system in recent years should not be an excuse for not adequately controlling long-term resource use, as political leadership has been given. These batches, SV and Left, also indicate that a systematic approach to identifying the coordination possibilities between extraction permits, both at an early stage and in the course of their lifetime, is also important for identifying and realising measures that can cut environmentally harmful emissions from production, such as electrification of petroleum installations. Experience with the development of the Utsira altitude shows that the current system for the coordination of Norwegian electricity networks is poor. We point out that ownership of both gas pipelines and oil pipelines is organised in a different way, which ensures greater coordination. The Committee has held various views on Petoro and its role. I do not go into that any further, as this is indicated in the setting. With this, I recommend to the Committee that the Riksrevision study of the work of the authorities on increased oil extraction from mature areas on Norwegian continental shelf should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e254	Good use of resources has always been the focus of the broad political majority who have designed Norwegian petroleum policy over time. A good mix of government requirements, tax systems, research, allocation policy and political attention has contributed to the Norwegian base's extraction rate of around 47 pst, compared to 22 pst. on a global basis – that is the global average. The importance of the measures taken and the importance of those policies can best be illustrated when we look at the results for some of our major areas. If we look at the Ekofisk field, which at the start in 1971 had an estimated extraction rate of 17 pst, we are now aiming for a extraction rate of 50 pst. In 1971 it was expected that this field would produce for 40 years, now it is estimated that 40 additional years. In terms of the remaining resources that are estimated to be extractable over the next 40 years, we're talking about a volume of 122 million standard cubic meters of oil equivalent. This means that this is the fifth largest field of production on a Norwegian base, measured in the remaining resources. This was our first field, which still produces -- the fifth largest. Statfjord had an estimated extraction rate of 50 pst in the treatment of PUD in 1976. In 2012, the target was increased to 66 pst. The field was to be closed at its original level in the mid-1990s. Now we're talking about 2025, and we're looking at possibilities for production beyond this. The revenue from this field alone amounts to 1200 billion. kr. - so far. The biggest field we have in terms of remaining resources is the Trollfield, where the remaining resources are more than three times larger than Johan Sverdrup, which we considered Plan for Development and Operation for earlier this year. At the start of 1996, it was clear that this gigantic gas field would produce for a long time. Then there was a thin layer of oil over the gas, which was initially considered non-refinable. But after quite tough discussions and struggles about the extraction, it was decided to take out that oil. At that time it was assumed that there was 55 million standard cubic meters of extractable oil. So far, 242 million standard cubic meters have been produced. The target is 333 million standard cubic meters. Gas production in the field will increase by 83 million standard cubic metres after new compressors were installed this year. This effort leads us to get out as much more gas as the Asta Hansteen and Valemon fields combined. It says something about the dimensions of what we can achieve by a conscious relationship to increased extraction. In addition to these three giant projects, large-scale and small-scale actions are being carried out on the entire base, with increased extraction as a target. Research and development funds are used to generate technologies and tools to achieve more efficient use of resources and to increase exploitation. The driver of this work is primarily profitable. Oil prices and economic conditions have made investments good. Political objectives are translated into clear expectations and requirements in the authorities' dialogue with oil companies. Taking the results achieved into account, we can well characterise Norwegian oil policy and its implementation by changing governments as a success in this field. That's my opinion, and that must be the starting point for the discussion. The Court’s observations point to important issues that need to be taken into account in order for success to be continued so far — there is no need to rest on the laurels. However, there is also reason to point out that the survey has covered the period 2006–2013. This was a period of sharp rise in oil prices and a strong willingness to invest in companies. After the oil price has undergone a dramatic fall, in parallel with the fact that the industry has taken on board the strong cost developments, we see that investment in the producing sector has fallen dramatically. We also look at the expectations in the coming years. It's being invested in new fields, which are Sverdrup, first and foremost, but in producing fields we see less investment. We also see falling use of money on maintenance and modification. This means that the authorities today face a different reality — and therefore other challenges — than in the years covered by the report. A stronger government involvement is needed to launch profitable projects. These are, in particular, time-critical projects, where the capital discipline of companies stands in the way of projects that will be both socio-economic and business-economic profitable in the long term. Strong efforts are also needed to reduce costs on Norwegian soil. But we cannot accept that this is used as an excuse for not implementing time-critical and profitable projects. This is part of a major discussion on the petroleum activity, where the Workers' Party has on several occasions submitted proposals aimed at mitigating the fall in activity and at preserving the competence and capacity of the industry. The Government has rejected these proposals. This is largely justified by the fact that it is for oil companies to assess the profitability and implementation of projects. I believe the Riksrevision report gives good support to the Workers' Party's idea that more active exercise of authority is necessary, not least in the times we now have. Then I want to comment on some of the minority comments in the setting. When the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party claim that the main focus of the period has been on new areas rather than increased extraction rates, I believe it is completely wrong. I refer to the biggest news of petroleum policy, as the previous government put forward in 2011, how much attention is paid to the increase in extraction and the potential it represents. Exploration, discovery and new extraction permits in mature areas have been part of increased extraction policy. The extension of the service life of installations by linking new findings makes a good contribution to increased extraction. Eight out of eleven findings over the period 2006–2013 that are or are likely to be developed will be associated with existing installations. The development of new fields will thus be an important support for the work on increased extraction. The same batches consider that the extraction rate shall be required in concession rounds. It's, in my opinion, a strange angle of incidence. The degree of extraction in a field depends to a large extent on field-specific characteristics. In a concession round, it is not even known whether there are hydrocarbons in the licences allocated, much less the shape and quality of the resources, if any. Therefore, it is mildly premature to demand extraction rates at that time. When we also know that some of these parties want to cut dramatically in petroleum research, which is an important driver of increased extraction, the rhetoric is about a desire for increased extraction in a slightly strange light. In conclusion, I would like to say that the best use of resources on the base is, in my opinion, by continuing to follow four parallel tracks at the same time: increasing extraction, getting fields and findings in operation, more searching and opening new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e284	A lot has already been said, so I will just add some comments to the matter. Current oil resource management requires good and socially efficient use of petroleum resources. Normally, socio-economic and business-economic assessments will coincide to maximise the use of oilfields. In some cases where oil companies have limited capital resources, only the most profitable projects will be carried out. This means that some socio-economic projects for extraction are deprioritised. Because mature fields are usually time-critical, i.e. that once closed down, they cannot be re-opened, it is important that the fields are completely emptied before they are shut down. In order to ensure the highest possible return, it is important that decisions on so-called ‘timely’ projects be taken while the infrastructure in the matured field remains operational. Norway is at the peak in terms of the degree of extraction, which several have experienced. Today we are at a percentage of approx. 47 pst. The Progress Party, like the majority of the Committee, believes that the objective must be to further increase the rate of exploitation. As many have also experienced, there are considerable resources that can be exploited today, for the benefit of society as a whole. The Progress Party therefore believes that both authorities and companies on the base must work together in a targeted manner to realise profitable projects for increased extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e293	The centre party is present in a note asking the Ministry of Oil and Energy to assess – and I stress ‘assess’ – whether to set stricter extraction rates in ongoing and future concession rounds. The representative Per Rune Henriksen said it was premature. Yes, it may be premature, but what it says is “estimated”. It is therefore premature in the sense that a person takes over the new situation, not least with the climate challenges, which leads us to have another international focus on renewable carbon and renewable energy in the future. It has major implications for the demand for fossil carbon, for fossil energy, whether it be oil or gas. So we're in a new reality when it comes to fossil prices. When one is in a new reality in terms of fossil prices, it will also, of course, focus on what is the most business and socio-economic wisest extraction strategy: focusing on improving extraction rates or continuing with a strong focus on increasing areas. I would say that I am very proud of that remark. It's premature, but it's in line with what's future. There are a lot of business and social arguments for this. How to do that, I'm the first one to admit is demanding. It's demanding. But that is exactly what is the essence of oil policy, that it has been very demanding. Norway has been innovative in many ways and has tried to find the combination of social demands in relation to business profitability for companies. Interestingly, there is a minority in the Committee that points out that neither the Oil Directorate nor Petoro have sufficient resources to follow up the efforts needed to further develop mature oil and gas fields of high value and that the follow-up is not effective enough. I think it is a bit strong that the Working Party and the Right are not involved. We also say that there is a need for a greater review of Petoros' tasks and resource use. Such a review must assess whether Petoro’s administrative costs are to be shifted ‘under the line’ and become part of the total cash flow in HOUSE, as discussed by Mr Petoro Sjöl. Because if you're going to have an increased focus on what we're talking about now, one has to be given the financial muscles of those who are going to act on behalf of the community, so that one can be more active. This is what the minority has stressed, in order to safeguard what is the new reality that Norway is in, including globally, in terms of price and assumptions in the future. It is predictability that gives capacity, in this industry, as in other industries. There was a situation where prices went so high to the weather and the authorities were on the move to such an extent that there was not enough capacity in the industry. This led to a cost spiral and a cost increase in the industry that was extreme. It's not here in the setting where it was extreme, but as far as I know, it was up to about 25 pst. per year over a period of three to four years. When we then know the impact of the oil sector on the social economy and ‘overplay’ effects in the rest of society, this is strongly contributing to the cost growth and the level of costs we have received in the Norwegian community, which is completely different from that of our competitors across the whole area. It sees the Central Party as a huge challenge in the current situation, not least when the majority here in this Chamber want to have open borders with regard to labour immigration and everything. Then the representative Per Rune Henriksen knows that this is more than demanding. To a greater extent, it must be the responsibility of the authorities to facilitate a greater predictability that can give capacity, and thus, through the elected government, can correct market forces so that one gets a sluggish and smoother curve, not these great peaks and falls, for it is, not least for the industry seam, unfortunate. In terms of investment and people, it leads to employees and it gets invested, and then it gets manned down and everything. This is technically demanding, but it is a social responsibility to try to facilitate it. With regard to what has happened on a Norwegian base, there is an incredible amount of good work done. What I'm trying to deal with here is that the good work is going on in the situation that we're in now, and that someone is taking the new time over, is using the active state ownership, the active role that the authorities have, to ensure that a person maintains a greater degree of the extraction potential that exists, as a result of the ever-new technology that comes, as the representative Per Rune Henriksen well described.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e308	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. I want to say that we have a management model of how we manage the energy resources and make the best use of them for the benefit of all of us, who have been very robust over time, who have produced good results, and who have gained great international recognition. At the heart of this management model is the way in which we allocate responsibilities and tasks in the management of Norwegian energy resources, where it is the companies responsible for making commercial decisions, and where the authorities are responsible for ensuring a good framework for activities – frameworks that facilitate both safe and profitable use of these resources. This model has given our industry stability and predictability for almost 50 years, which of course has been central to the success of the Norwegian petroleum industry. This is a model that has contributed to significant value creation for all of us, and in this, the high level of exploitation we have on the Norwegian base, which the representative Henriksen was also involved in. The fields currently in operation are going to produce more than half of the hydrocarbons present, and some of the tone-providing companies on the Norwegian base are working with the goal of getting an average utilisation rate of 60 p.p., among others. State-owned Statoil. That the way the Oil Directorate is set up, the responsibility they have, and the way they work, has been very central to us getting as much as we've done, there can't be any doubt. At the same time, when we are discussing this matter here today, I believe that there is a reason to bring with it what the representative Henriksen also had to say, that this report analyses an industry that was in a completely different situation than is the case today. So a little bit more detailed about how our management system works. In many ways, the management of oil and gas resources is based on many of the same principles that apply to all other, or at least most of the other, industrial activities in Norway. Petroleum resources are not developed by the State. It is the role of the country to facilitate the commercial and safe use of the resources on Norwegian pedestal. For this reason, the authorities establish a comprehensive, clear and predictable framework in the form of laws, regulations and concessions that give rights holders – i.e. operators – and their partners both rights and obligations for the activity to be carried out. It is the companies, industry actors, who have the most knowledge, competence and information on industrial issues and often on geology, and thus also on the challenges and opportunities of the exploration, deployment and exploitation phases of the fields. Therefore, it is also quite natural that it is those who make decisions of an operational and commercial nature. Then it is we from the authorities who have to set a framework that makes the oil companies also have a self-interest in exploiting our common oil and gas resources in a way that is of the greatest benefit to all of us. This division of labour has been a central part of the success that Norwegian pedestal has evolved into. I would like to mention that, in addition to the management model, appropriations for research, development and demonstration of new technology – which was also in the presence of the representative Henriksen – are very central in order for us to be able to make the most of the resources on Norwegian pedestal in the future. I am pleased that this week we have received a broad majority in the Storting to ensure a significant increase in the investment in petroleum research, which will enable us to operate both safer, more sustainable and also more profitable. For many years research efforts towards increased field-based production have been important. Only since 2010 has the reserve increase from field to field in operation been 3.5 billion barrels. With an oil price at today's level, these resources are worth between 100 and 200 billion. DKK in five years. It's not insignificant. I believe this shows that our model works. There is still a significant potential to increase the extraction in many of the fields in operation, but I believe this shows that we have essentially a framework that works well. Many have pointed out that allocation requires the amount of resources to be used. When you start producing in a field, you learn an incredible amount of both how the technology that's been chosen works, and not least about the quality of the reservoir. I want to be very clear that it is the companies that show to the authorities that they have the best possible thought-out plan for maximizing the values of any resources present, which are given great importance when we make our assessments of who will gain access and the right to produce these resources. I would like to say that in the situation we are facing today, which is not directly referred to by the National Audit Office, but which many members of the Committee have been involved in today, which is also partly mentioned in the vote, we need to understand from the authorities that large, new field developments need to be more worked on and spent more time on finding profitable ways to build on. We must respect that. So I believe, like several of the others who have had posts today, that when it comes to time-critical resources, resources that need to be invested within a given period of time, things are different. There are resources that can be lost if the investment is not taken within a given period of time. I can assure the representatives and Stortinget that the authorities have a considerable pressure at these times. The new majority in the Stortinget has strengthened both the Petoro and the Oil Directorate in recent years. Of course, it helps us to make better use of resources in terms of increased field-based extraction, which is a priority task for both Petoro and the Oil Directorate. A little bit about the Riksrevisions report: I have tried to be very clear that I believe that the division of responsibilities between the companies and the authorities is and has been very central to the success story that we have developed on a Norwegian base. There have been principles that have been widely supported in this room, and which I experience have wide support in the Stortinget even today. I believe it is important that we take care of the clear division of responsibilities and roles that we have on Norwegian pedestals in the future as well. The work on increased extraction from mature areas and fields in operation is a work that will continue to take place in the future at the intersection of commercial operators and government administration. I believe that collapse and government have found a good balance between steering through the framework and the ability to intervene directly with terms and conditions in individual matters. I would like to include the Riksrevision's assessments and recommendations in the report in the further work on facilitating the good and profitable management of all Norwegian oil and gas resources in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e358	I've addressed this topic many times, with a lot of different angles. In Storting we have often spent a lot of time, energy and resources on the fact that those who experience not having their own children will have the opportunity to do it medically. Therefore, I believe that it is also our duty to value highly the adults who have so much extra care that they are willing to adopt children as well. It's a great effort for the community, for society, for those children, and I think that as a big community we're not capable enough to appreciate the job that their parents do. Today, we have a system of strong control before becoming adoptive parents. That's good. It is good that we ensure the legal security of the children who are coming, and that we ensure the security they need in their growth. But in return, there is little, and sometimes no, follow-up related to the parents who often get an extra demanding care situation. In our country today, an anonymous adoptive mother writes about how she experienced meeting the Norwegian helper when she experienced a rather demanding care situation with two five-year-olds. She tells me about lack of support, lack of follow-up. And if we've written the correct circulars here for the Norwegian system, it doesn't always work like that. Or as she writes in the article: “When I referred to the circular and explained that I wanted a preliminary conversation, the health sister replied that she was familiar with the circular, but that I had to understand that ‘they didn’t have time for it’.” People need help. Today, we have quite a lot of knowledge about how important the first time is in a child's life, how important it is to build relationships with adults, how important it is to have felt security, how important it is to be able to influence the psyche later in life. These families get much less follow-up than those with biological children, who also have challenges. The study of the adoption forum showed that nine out of ten municipalities had no follow-up at all to the adoption families they have. When we use so much resources of our support apparatus to check that these families are able to do their job, we also need to be able to use some of our professional support equipment to enable them to do that job as well as possible. We have a lot of knowledge about challenges that adoptive children get later in life. In 2013, the Public Health Institute conducted a survey showing that they scored lower on cognitive skills and that they had lower school performance than the normal population. There was also a higher incidence of both mental and behavioural disorders, and there was a higher frequency of contact with mental health protection. There is also a frequency of alcohol and drug abuse, as well as of maritime murder and attempted suicide. A study published by the NRC in September of this year from Danish research also showed that the incidence of mental illness among adopted children is much higher than in others. These are also children who experience successes and many joys, and who give many pleasures to people around them. But with all the knowledge we have about the relationship between parents and children and how important the first few days of life are, we also have enough knowledge to know that these children need extra support. In 1999, the Statistical Centre carried out an assessment of the link between child protection and adoption. It turned out that in the 7–12 age group, there were barely registered adopted children in the field of child protection. But in the 13–17 age group, a dramatic increase is seen. This is also related to some of the other knowledge we have. When I was a schoolboy in Oslo, there was a big discussion that we in Oslo had many children with strong war experiences or children of parents with strong war experiences. They were referred to as the ticking bombs in the streets of Oslo. Then the PP service in Oslo carried out a thorough investigation of the entire group of children with war experiences and children of parents with strong war experiences. The study also showed that the vast majority of children functioned normally as everyone else, until they reached the age of 13-17. Then, what we know as post-traumatic stress occurred in many adults, that you get concentration difficulties, and that school challenges are even greater because school demands you more when you reach your teens and puberty. Here again we see that children who have strong experiences get the same challenges whether they're adoptive children or they're children with different backgrounds. When the first years of life have been extra demanding, you have to have a device that helps them, especially when they come in the teens. We also have to have a device that helps these parents to have good ways to work, to help the children through their childhood too. In Denmark, there is a model that offers advice to the adoptive families at home, with both psychologist and therapist, with a very low self-esteem – i.e. a decent low threshold for those who adopt. There is, in particular, advice on the journey down to pick up the children and on how to make the acquisition in a good way. The left is satisfied that through budgetary cooperation, we have managed to increase adoption aid to 1 G. We also believe that we should have made it easier to adopt and would have liked to have again raised several of the proposals from the Hove Committee. But what I want to bring up with the council here today is all those who meet challenging days both when they're going to pick up, when they're going to increase their attachment to their children, and when they're going to help their children through both childhood and youth. So my question to the Council of State is, how can we increase that support system, so that parents get the opportunity to do the job they're well motivated to, namely to be parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e385	I would like to first of all thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for addressing this important issue, which concerns adoption families who have adopted children from abroad. I myself have read the article in our country today, which affects me both as a mother and as a councillor responsible for this field. The number of international adoptions is declining, not only in Norway but also in other countries. The age of children at international adoption is increasing, and we also know that more children adopted to Norway need special support. At the same time, it is important to remember that children who are adopted from abroad are not a uniform group. A knowledge summary from the Swedish Institute of Public Health in 2013 shows that internationally adopted continuous scoreboards are lower on cognitive competence and have lower school performance. With regard to the development of internationally adopted children, there is a lack of knowledge of mental health and mental distress. In a Danish study, adopted children are reported to be more affected than their peers by mental illness. No similar study has been carried out in Norway. Today, adoption families and challenging adoption children are offered services within existing services in municipalities, such as health centres, pedagogical and psychological guidance services, family centres and child protection. Child and youth psychiatry also provides help. No specific assistance is initially provided to adoptive children and their families, but, like everyone else, they should be given a good offer in the existing service provider to suit their specific needs. Employees in the adoption organisations have provided feedback from adoptive parents that the competence for adoption varies from municipality to municipality. The adoption organisations have also developed several brochures to assist the adoption families themselves and the agencies and auxiliaries in contact with the families. In the past, organisations have had some local offerings to their members, such as tea fields, small children’s meetings and social activities. Organisations have also had advisory services. Services have served as low-threshold services and are intended to provide both advice and guidance to families who need it, but also to disseminate knowledge of adoption to professional and auxiliary services. I am aware that it has been difficult for the adoption organisations to maintain such offers, because the number of foreign adoptions has decreased. There's also been austerity in the economy. As the representative pointed out, the Hove Committee, which discussed the many different aspects of adoption, has also discussed subsequent support for adoption families in NOU 2009:21 Adoption – for the best of the child. The Committee stressed the importance of ensuring that adopted children and their families have access to the services they need. In the investigation, they also addressed the need for skills development in the various services, including: in the form of a level of competence in kindergartens, schools and health centres, pedagogical staff and other facilities. This was to ensure that adoptive children and their families are followed up by people with special knowledge of adoption. Two of the adoption organisations, the adoption forum and InorAdopt, have identified the need for a centre of competence for adoption and submitted a proposal for a national centre of competence in May 2013. Action has been taken to improve the situation. In 2013, the Health Directorate published a circular on health surveys of adopted people. The circular addresses homecoming studies, the responsibility of the prescriber and the responsibilities of the health centre and school health services. Here, the Health Directorate advises on home visits and health checks, but also on mental health and psychosocial issues. The follow-up of the circular may address some challenges facing adoption families in the ordinary auxiliaries and may lead to easier access for adoption families to the ‘system’. The circular also provides some information that one must be aware of when working with adoptive families. It is still too early to conclude on the effect of the circular, but when we read the anonymous article that was in our country today, we see that there is a lot of failure in the system. The adoption law committee was appointed in 2012 to conduct a full and fundamental assessment of the adoption law institution. In NOW 2014:9 New adoption law, the Adoption Law Committee has also assessed the follow-up of adoption families after adoption. However, according to the opinion of the Committee on the Adoption of the Law, the most immediate challenge facing adoption families is not the absence of a centre of expertise but the absence of competence in the adoption of the nearest services. Since the mandate of the Committee on the Adoption of the Act was to assess what the adoption law should contain, the committee did not specifically address the proposal on the centre of competence. The adoption law committee points to a number of factors that may lead adoption families to meet specific challenges. The service provider in municipalities does not have sufficient knowledge of the needs of some foreign-adopted children and their families and that they have challenges to face. The sample also points out that a growing proportion of foreign-adopted children need special support. The adoption committee has proposed that families who have adopted children from abroad have a statutory right to follow-up of advisers with special knowledge of adoption and therapeutic experience. The Directorate-General for Children, Youth and Family shall, on its proposal, be responsible for the advisers and for providing them with the necessary training and guidance. The committee proposes that the right to follow-up be valid for three years after adoption. The sample assumes that the starting point should be straight to up to 10 hours of guidance. According to the Adoption Law Committee, the reduction in the number of adoptions for such a special scheme also speaks because knowledge of adoption and adoption-specific challenges is being reduced in the general auxiliaries. The adoption law committee assumes that such a scheme will cost about 6.8 million. kr annually in the case of the advice itself. In addition, costs relate to professional guidance and meetings of advisers and the costs of managing the scheme. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has now been consulted widely. The hearing ended in ours, and now we are considering how to follow up the proposals. I have been concerned that Norway will comply with the obligations of the 1993 Hague Convention on International Adoption. The adoption families who have adopted children from abroad shall be followed up in a good manner after returning home. It is important to have adequate knowledge of the needs of these children and their families and to work widely on the challenges they face. It is now up to me to assess how the proposals of the Committee on the Adoption of the Act are to be followed up. The question of subsequent follow-up of the adoption families is part of this work, and I will return to Stortinget with the follow-up of this NOU.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e419	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite clear that the Council of State has understood the challenge that lies in this, sailing if it was almost heard as if the Council of State asked for help in the budgetary process to get the last money in place. I fully agree when the Council of State says this is not a uniform group. This is a group that both spreads a lot of joy and creates a lot of love in Norwegian society, so it's amazing what happens around many of them as well. But many of the fields in our entire childcare care are quite competence-intensive, and one must have a lot of special competence. That's why I'm skeptical about believing that everyone on our base plane should have special competence to be able to advise adoptive parents. And as the Council of State said, there are many groups of which are quite few within a geographical area, and believing that all health sisters should have special competence in counselling for these groups, is perhaps a little overambitious. While we see the challenges of adoption, we also see that we are getting more and more lonely minors into Norway. Today, we see from figures how Sweden, which has been good at finding foster homes, has a considerably lower cost to lone minors than what the Norwegian system has. I have spoken to many lonely minors, and I visited all the cities that have accepted many, and met many of them in the summer. If there's one thing all single minors say to me that is at the top of their wish list, it's Norwegian mother. Having caregivers who are firm, having someone who can explain the cultural context you're in – all this is quite demanding. Having a firm framework for care is also important for this group. Maybe some of the skills that we can build up in some environments on adoption children could also be used for this group, and maybe we could have used more of that care in new ways of thinking. I'm glad that this circular existence exists. I'm glad the Council of State has this commitment. But really, my question about the state council is that the left would get in these six million. kr in the budget, or if she thinks she can fight them in the sea to create some professional environments that can lift this whole field, which will also concern several areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e430	Now it is probably only a few days since we finished one budgetary procedure, so now we are doing well with the 2017 budget. I am sure that the bourgeois parties will be able to find agreement and good proposals that can help those who need it. Let me first just take what the representative was about – the headline in Dagbladet today – with the Swedish and Norwegian models. It is very difficult to compare the two models, because in Sweden, all single minors are from 0 to 18 years of age in care centres in municipalities, while in Norway they are under 15 years of age under child protection, and cost about 2 million. kr. The others, from 15 to 18, are under the Ministry of Justice and have lower costs. That's why it's hard to compare. But we have to, with the large number of lone minors that are coming now, think new about the settlement of these. We see that there are 37 municipalities today that live single minors under the age of 15, but there is a family in all municipalities that can and will become foster families for those children. I am very happy that there are now many families who have contacted Bufetat to announce their interest in becoming a foster family, so I hope we can manage to find a family for more children. For things with adoptive children and their families. We see that the number goes down, but it's also grown older children, and some of those kids have special challenges. Everyone who is a parent knows that when you're going to be a parent for the first time, it can be a challenge, and maybe those who are adoptive parents have extra challenges, which it's important that we take care of. In what has now been consulted, there is broad support for several of the proposals available from the Adoption Law Committee. There are some follow-up questions that I have asked the directorate to investigate, and there are the needs of adoption families, and at what times needs arise. We have also asked for information on the content of the adoption preparatory courses, if anything might be relevant to them in those issues, and whether the Health Directorate’s new circular may have helped alleviate the situation. Information is also required on what may be available from other services that can address the needs of adoption families, e.g. Local foster home services, organisations, etc. Those questions I have asked the directorate to have a review on, and get an answer to that in December of this year, in a short time, and it will also form the basis for the further follow-up of the NOU of the Adoption Law Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e443	Let me first commend the interpellant for promoting an important interpellant and addressing a question that concerns many of us, and on which the Storting has been committed in several contexts to contributing to better solutions. I share the concern expressed by the representative Skei Grande regarding the additional challenges facing adoptive children and whether there is sufficient competence in municipalities to meet them and to provide good enough and sufficient help to those with challenges. I also think that many adoptive parents experience exactly what Skei Grande describes, that there is a powerful device in front of an adoption, but once it is completed, you are largely left to yourself. The history that is being referred to in our country today clearly shows that this is something that many people experience. Fortunately, we also see in that post that it has been said that it has gone well, despite the challenges that have been. It shows that there is a lot of living in those people who open up their homes, and who give of their time and resources to give children and young people a safe and healthy upbringing. It's good to see that so many people want to be adoptive parents despite the fact that we see that many people experience challenges related to their everyday lives. So I agree that we need more knowledge about the specific challenges that adoptive children experience. Work has been done on this, but there is no doubt that additional efforts can be made in Norway too to strengthen the acquisition of knowledge about these challenges. For all children living in Norway, rapid and good help is important when parents are alerting about challenges. And from this pulpit I want to express a clear expectation from the Stortinget that the municipalities, the kindergartens, the schools, the health professionals, all those who are set to have a responsibility on behalf of our children, take it responsibility and follow up when there are warnings about challenges. Challenges must be captured as early as possible and appropriate assistance given. It is not necessarily about more circulars and more rules, because I believe that in many areas Stortinget and changing government constellations have done a great job trying to contribute. But the last thing that comes down to is the possibility of having enough staff with enough time and with the right skills in the municipalities to catch up and provide the necessary help. Then it is important that we focus on the municipal authorities being able to employ enough people to offer help to parents and children. I can mention that under the red-green government there were earmarked funds for what became almost a thousand new posts in the field of child protection. It enables municipalities to better capture all children with challenges and provide rapid and good help. I am also pleased to see that the Left and Christian People's Party in the budgetary agreement with the government has been given more funding for the very same thing, to get more posts in the field of child protection in the future, so that the important escalation that was started can be continued. I am convinced that it can help and help more people get the right help. I think the municipalities are the closest to assessing the need for the children who live in the individual municipality. It is therefore important that municipalities have sufficient finances to have enough staff in kindergartens, schools and health centres to catch up with their children when they need help. Therefore, it is also important that we in the State budget propose a sufficient framework for Kommune-Norway to address these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e462	Thanks to the interpellant, who travels an important theme. One feels that the adoption group is a bit taus group. They are on the verge of looking after children and their desire to care for a small human being. When this is achieved, they are left to themselves in a way. They don't shout loudly. Is it because they don't need to, they're so positively overwhelmed by the joy of a child, or are they so resourceful that they master the most when it comes to their family situation? I know a family that's adopted. I admire their long-term belief in getting through the sewing machine, so everything was ready for adoption. Several years passed, and there was a lot of tearful frustration. But when they could finally bring the little girl home, almost all of this was forgotten. This family is resource-intensive in every way, something one may know about in several adoptive families, and it is clear that these are then stronger at different challenges in life. Nor did it make it worse for this family that mother is a health - care sister and father is a doctor. It is clear that small challenges did not grow larger, precisely because the resources were with themselves and were ready to be solved. There was an extra resource in the municipality where the mother was assigned to help other adoptive parents. Especially when it came to the child’s health, but also when other things were involved, one knew where one should lead others into the system – even where the father as a doctor could help others before his area. It's clear that it's not like this for everyone. But it has made me think that self-help for further assistance is important to this group. I also know that adoption organisations are very good at contacting and contacting adoption family members themselves. But back to one of the adoptive families I know. They saw, and see, the good they can do by helping more people – collecting other adoptive parents into different resource groups, which the adoption committee has also pointed to in its distribution, and which the various adoption organisations are already good at today. But while we wait, the municipalities can do a bit. Many people have good resources that can provide good help and support to others in their own municipality. However, it is important that these resource people have the opportunity to support it, to be present in different forums and to provide information and interaction, not only to other adoption families, but equally to society in general. For there are many instances that do not have sufficient knowledge of adoptivfamilians and their challenges, whether they relate to the adoption situation itself or to the important post-adoption situation — they are within health, school, kindergarten, work or the community environment. Another important element is post-adoption monitoring, in order to prevent the best possible progress, just to convey the good help in municipalities to adoptive parents. We also have to think that a lot of adoptive parents adopt more than once. Then it is important to learn from the first time, so that follow-up is done even better in later adoptions, both for the individual family and for others. So maybe an adoption contact at the health center is a place to start, where one has experience, sit with knowledge and not least is willing to share and guide the adoption family on into life. Maybe we have to start there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e483	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses a very important issue. I have also read Our Country today, where there was a reading from a woman who wanted to be anonymous, but who describes very well how one has experienced this, and how she and the family sought help and where they went to all kinds of municipal services – everything from the family center, PPT, child protection. They couldn't come to the BUP, because then they had to have a diagnosis. She put up both at the hospital and at the health centre with this written by the Health Directorate, the guidelines, without her getting any response to it. So there was a very descriptive situation about how you can experience this today. So she also takes up what's part of the assessment, whether we're going to do as in Denmark, to have a government competence center, a PAS scheme like this, that gives special follow-up to families after adoption. And that's probably a bit of the discussion today. I hear the Council of State says we don't need a centre of competence, but we need competence. Nobody disagrees with that. The question is how to get that competence into the services that are out there, where people live. One agrees that today we have more systematized and thorough follow-up before adoption than what is the case after adoption, and it is such that what kind of competence you may meet in the auxiliary unit, what kind of help you get, depends on where you live. Nor does one fully acknowledge that adopted children from abroad need more follow-up; I read that up to 30-40 pst. may require such follow-up. Then the problem is that the offers given are neither nationwide nor co-ordinated with other offers, so it is more or less random. So it's the adoption forum, which has kind of stood for this. They've had local departments, and they've arranged different theme fields, etc. to be able to follow up adoptivfamilians. So it has been discussed here, both the Adoption Law Committee and the Committee of the Court of Justice, about what action is important to take, and the Council of State also says that the government will bring with it its follow-up to the Adoption Law Committee and the measures recommended there. I see that one proposal is a mandatory adoption preparatory course. I also see that both selections underline the need for a level of competence in kindergarten and school, health centres, etc. So back to this with whether we're going to have a national competence center. I agree with the Council of State that the most important thing is that one gets the competence out where one is, and then I thought that the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on a legal requirement for follow-up from Buffdir's advisers might be another way to go. But it is then, I think, a paradox that there are guidelines from the Health Directorate, which came in 2013, to which the mother who wrote in our country today refers. She brought these guidelines to the office, and they don't really know what this is, and she agreed that this would not have time for us. So there are competences, there are guidelines, but they are not implemented out there. So one has to sort of make sure that the health services and the other services out there are clear about what the guidelines are, and that one makes an effort to make it quite clear out there, what, after all, already exists in this area today. Otherwise, I look forward to the follow-up of the government on this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e509	I want to thank those who have been in the debate, sail if it was a little sad that there were no more, because I think this is a theme that many are concerned about. We have seen in the past that when child protection offices are to give priority to and approve foster parents, it takes a very long time. There is an understandable priority at any child protection office — a priority shall be given to helping someone who has major problems in the family in which they live, or to using resources to approve a family, if it is perfect. A little bit of the same thing, we see here, that it's very easy to prioritize where it's acute, and where it's a crisis, while preparing people for the job they're going to do, giving them guidance so there's no crisis, giving support and professional advice and guidance is more difficult to prioritise in our help system. These are families that are resource-intensive in advance – they have been given the stamp that they are – and using some resources to back them up to do their job is much, much better than starting to repair the day that has gone wrong. So it's quite clear that this circular doesn't work like we thought, sail if it hasn't worked for long, and then we have to see if we have to organize our professional authorities in a different way. These are families we know are able to take advantage of professional guidance, and then the challenge is that we give them the professional guidance, so they get to act like the good parents they go into this with a great desire to be. I hope that the involvement of the Council of State reaches out into the system. So I think we have to admit that the follow-up of child protection by families, family protection – this whole area – is quite professionally complex and broad. And the first line service we have today cannot take maximum advantage of all the professional skills that exist, and could be the guide in all parts of this area. So here we probably have to have someone specializing, and someone who knows something about exactly those groups and has the expertise to give them the tools that make them do the job the way they want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e520	I also thank you for the debate. The last thing the representative raised now, we could probably have had a good new debate about how important it is to have safe families, safe parents who create safe children, and not least how important it is that we have to work prevention, get in early and help the families who have challenges. We know that it is important to build children instead of repairing them when they are adults. So we fully agree on the importance of that work. This work is done in a municipality, and it is important that the municipalities and the employees who work in the individual services have both the skills and the knowledge to see the families who have some extra challenges, who need us to be there and have a support device. Adopt families, as many people have had, are often resource-intensive families who can stand up at the health centre with a circular hand and say that here you actually have a duty to give me guidance and help. When we have a circular that the municipalities are obliged to follow, it is also important that the employees there are aware of this, and have knowledge and competence about it. When the circular is followed, we know that it can solve some challenges that adoption families have, and that they are met in the ordinary auxiliaries, can also lead to easier access to the system. For all children – whether they are adopted or born here in Norway – they have rights to follow up, and they also have the right to have the existing services adapted to their specific needs, and that is something we are obliged to follow up. Then I am very happy that this government, with the good support of both the Left and the Christian People's Party, has managed to increase the subsidy to health stations, school health services and psychologists in the municipalities by over 667 million. kr for next year. The extra earmarked 100 million has also been entered. kr for the next year to health centres. It also helps to give the employees in the municipalities both time and knowledge to be able to follow up those families in a better way. Then I'm also happy that we've managed to increase municipal child protection. The Minister of Health has worked on a primary health message, which is important, and there is also a youth health strategy on the stairs. This has been a good debate on an important topic. Now there is a proposal from the Adoption Law Committee that the government is now working to follow up, as well as the hearings that have taken place during the consultation round. So I look forward to a further debate on an important topic in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e536	That is when the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e550	This is a proposition that contains changes to the rules on processing time in the new landslide of 21 June 2013 No. 100. This new law will enter into force on 1 January 2016. I refer only to the comments made in the Committee's comments on the amendments and the proposal otherwise and to the fact that there is a joint committee that supports the proposals for amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e557	The new Land Change Act was adopted in June 2013 and enters into force on 1 January 2016. Before the law can be introduced, many preparations must be made, and this is the reason for the relatively long period between decisions and entry into force. In the course of these preparations, a set of provisions of the law on the processing of land, the processing of land change decisions, may provide unnecessary procedural treatment. In a letter to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Court of Justice has requested that some procedural provisions be amended before the law enters into force. I am very happy that a total accumulation supports the changes that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e564	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e578	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e585	In many ways it can be said that this is a rematch from the treatment of Report. St. 12 for 2014-2015 in spring. The centre party and the Labour Party did not win the vote then, nor will they win the vote today. Now I could have strictly taken down and said that I have given both sides of the view, but I should be a little bit more out of touch, since I am a modest northerner. The point of the Central Party is clearly that you want to show that you are in principle against the fact that Norwegian citizens are to be forced to pay in the Netherlands. Of course, that's a position you can have, and I respect that you have it, but I deeply disagree with it. The same position is held by the Workers' Party, which supports this. What I find interesting is that the minority in the Justice Committee defines what the majority meant when we discussed Report. St. 12. And once again, it's an affordable ambition, and you might want to get points for doing that. At the same time, I think you should let the people who wrote the notes be allowed to define this clarification themselves. It's the most neat and probably the most correct. But once again: points of ambition and a few fewer points of implementation, because of course you may want to stop the payoff to the Netherlands, but what will happen then is that you will have an explosion in the pay queues again. And if you want to, you have to be honest and say that the reconciliation queues are something we have to live with because we don't have the ability to remove them. The red-green government sat for eight years and had the opportunity to do so. We can probably have a discussion now about numbers and number sizes, but the fact is that the most effective way to reduce settlement queues under the Bondevik II government was to introduce criminal discounts. Former Prime Minister and Minister of Justice Knut Storberget is probably the world champion — at least in Norway — in providing people with criminal discounts. Today's government doesn't want a regime like that. We want people who are convicted and who are going to execute a sentence to actually have to do that. And then, as others have said from this pulpit, you have to have the opportunity to have at least two thoughts in your head at the same time. We have a tradition here in Norway to find solutions within our own regime. This time, it has been seen more — capacity has been found abroad to help reduce the pay queue. I think that's affordable, and it shows that you're afraid to think new. The size has sanctioned and said yes to it, so that the legal and other things are in place. In the case of coercion, which has also been discussed by the minority, it has been said that non-compulsory force should initially be used. At the same time, Storting has accepted that force can be used to some extent. The same applies to the comment from the minority on those in the LAR system. It's true that you said not to send out people who are in the LAR system, but what you didn't discuss at the time was volunteering around this. If people who are currently connected and using the LAR system want to zone in the Netherlands, at least the majority seem to be allowed to do so, because it can help you get through it faster, finish up and come back as a law-abiding citizen. So we think what the government is doing now is good action. We think it makes sense to move on with it, and we see no need to support the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e602	In this case, all positions are locked, we also heard that now from the Progress Party – unfortunately, I would say. I wish that the Christian People's Party would see that the agreement, and in particular its implementation, proved to have such great shortcomings that they could take a stand to reverse it. They're not that far. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a strict and effective criminal execution. Society must feel that justice is being done as fully as possible. Those who have committed a criminal act must be punished. The Stoltenberg government launched in 2008 a Storing Message, St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, on key choices for criminal services. In this, the whole package of measures was: Prevent crime through wide-ranging efforts in areas such as school, work, early help for families and young people who are struggling with renunciation by having severe penalties and consistent measures Give opportunities to choose other life-cycles for those who have committed crime – through rehabilitation, treatment, cooperation with relatives and the municipality Help to ensure that the auxiliary equipment functions under settlement, and ensure that all move in the same direction – other road choices should be a realistic alternative I will not add up to the great polemical debate on this matter. It is a choice of values, and our positions in this matter are well known. Some of the consequences we see, and the trends in these, I believe that this solution was poor. First to the legal challenges: the hearing bodies were opposed and sceptical. They pointed to urgent work and ambiguity around important legal and international obligations. Now there is a case against the state, precisely with the background of legal provisions. We're going to have to wait for the result. Anyway, there's a lot of evidence that it'll last over several courts. So to be practical, we now see a large-scale movement of prisoners that is not justified by criminal challenges, but is justified by the need to gather prisoners to carry out investigations and clarifications. 254 prisoners have been adopted. All shall be transferred to Ullersmo before dispatch. The mass displacement is without professional justification and leads to enormous extra work for the employees. The economic consequences almost speak for themselves. The daily price per square is approximately NOK 2 500, and now towards the end of November, there are still vacancies, as far as we have been informed. If 100 seats have been available so far this year, 250,000 kroner have gone straight out of the window every day for two months – despite the fact that the Council of State assures us that it will be full in September. So a little bit about rehabilitation: the school offer has been found to be in a few hours a week. The possibility of gradual recovery is reduced. All return work must now take place within two to three months of release. The target group is made. Prisoners participating in LAR programmes and in the process of acquiring vocational training have been transferred. Finally, I'll talk about the difficult feelings. Media reports that two prisoners have tried to take their own lives after they were told that they would be transferred. The fact that this occurs from time to time is no reason not to take it seriously – on the contrary. The suicide trend is high in prison, and that's why we should be concerned about how to bring down the statistics. Enforcement of prisoners suggests that there is an increase in fear, anxiety and instability. The Fangers Family Association has also shown that this affects an innocent third party – mothers, fathers, children and grandparents – which has made it difficult for them to follow up and support them. This is also value selection. I would like the proposals in this case to be given a majority, for the sake of the economy, rehabilitation, employees, prisoners and relatives. They will not, but I will address the proposals made by the Labour Party in the matter. We shall vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e634	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e637	I allow myself to start with a difficult question, but at the same time simply: aren't not all of us sitting on the Storting, dedicated to ensuring that the prisoners are properly executed, while at the same time wanting to discharge our responsibility to the victims after a criminal act? I think the answer is yes. In this discussion, this topic may seem to be forgotten something, and we are becoming more concerned with political rhetoric and attack than the important question. The situation in Norwegian criminal services has been down-priority for many years. When our government took over the government, there were 1,200 unconditional atonements in line. There was a 98pst prison siege. – this despite the broad consensus that, in order to achieve the best possible implementation of the deposit, the coating should not exceed 90 pst. And what was the need? Yes, there was a great need for closed settlement capacity. Many good proposals have subsequently been made in the debate that it could quickly put in place settlement capacity. The problem was that there was no room in relation to the need. There's something about this to give the right medicine. The right has also not left his message from then St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, effective punishment was dealt with. We then pointed out the crucial link between rehabilitation and prison capacity. Firstly, it is negative for the rehabilitation of convicted people to go on for a long time without finishing the sentence on the basis of long queues. Secondly, it leads to a weakening of rehabilitation when prisons operate with a covering far beyond the criminal justice system itself recommending on the basis of professional criteria. Therefore, this government took the initiative to be able to do something quickly with what is the real challenge: lack of settlement capacity for closed locations. Through the agreement with the Netherlands and Norwayrhaven, we have now seen good results with decreases in the housing queues. Furthermore, this government does not want to take advantage of the instrument of which the opposition used a great deal in the previous period, with increased release. The right considers it important that we respect the judgment given by the courts for a crime. When the Storting has established a level of punishment and the courts have passed their judgment, the penalty, in respect of both victims of criminal acts and not least the equality of the law for those who are to pay their punishment, shall be applied as ordered. Finally, the right has expectations that, as is often the case with new measures, any entry challenges will be addressed after some time. We have been through challenges in Norwegian reconciliations that have not been the very best either, and we have managed to get good arrangements for, among other things. child-responsors in prison. I have the same expectations that what may have been of entry problems will resolve once the system has worked over a period of time. And I assume that the arrangement for the rental of housing capacity in the Netherlands is of a temporary nature while building up the necessary housing capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e656	Like the rapporteur, I could have started by saying that in many ways this is a rematch on a decision that the Stortinget made in ours, and I think it is little that has changed since then. The proposals may well be put forward, but a three-year agreement has been reached which, after the committee has been informed by a letter of reply, does not have an option for cancellation, but in any case, if it were to be cancelled, would have incurred a number of costs – I suppose – and at least that had to be discussed. The stand of the Christian People's Party is firm. We have a goal of building capacity in Norway, but we also have a goal of solving the challenges we are currently facing. Capacity in Norwegian prisons has been significantly expanded. The occupation in Norwegian prisons has fallen, and it is positive, so capacity is released. What we discussed, and used as a basis for doing so, were, for example, to release more custody capacity. It's now done. The allegations that people who should have been in custody, but who were released because it was overcapacity, at least I haven't seen them lately. The second good argument we used was the human rights violations in connection with smooth cell, too long in police arrest. If I don't remember completely wrong, there were over 4,000 breaches of this in 2013. If the number that is now — and perhaps the Minister of Justice may say more about this — remains, the figure, taken into account, will be about. 500, i.e. a decrease from 4,000 to approx. 500. It shows that it has been seized, and that capacity is released, so that one can avoid human rights violations, and it has been important for the Christian People's Party. What was perhaps one of the most important things when we did this grip, was that yes, this solves the short-term, but we need to focus on the long-term. By means of the budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties, one has decided to extend 200 new sites in Norway, at Eidsberg and Ullersmo. But it is so important that we have pointed to a phase-out plan and a development plan where one will build 1000 new sites in Norway by 2020. This is the most important thing we can do to avoid having to hire places in the Netherlands, which – as I have said before, and as I stress again – is of course an emergency solution, which we should have liked to be in addition. I just want to underline some other points here. We were concerned that as much as possible would travel voluntarily. According to the Crime Directorate's figures from 6 November, there are 256 people who have been decided to transfer, of whom 32 are Norwegian, i.e. approximately. 12 pst. That is essentially voluntary in the case of Norwegian citizens. What is the background for us to think it is unfortunate to have to zone in the Netherlands? Well, that's the distance. Being close to the relatives is an important principle; the principle of subsidiarity is supported. Therefore, volunteering must be based. I would like to stress once again that I am expecting the ministry to strive for it all the time – to facilitate, disseminate in a way that makes it as voluntary as possible so that a release is forced, because it is not positive. And then it's about doing to facilitate the best possible rehabilitation. We have seen notice that in the start of the settlement transfer to Norwayrhaven there were some challenges, and they are after what we have been informed about now, and that is positive, for the key must be good rehabilitation. Then I also need to say that it is experienced in the debate that the prisoner chooses where he wants to zone, that one can kind of pick out which prison in Norway is going to zone in. It's not like that. If you are from Agder and suddenly you have to zone in Bergen, or you have to zone even further north – this is not a decision of your own, you have to decide where to go. I would like to stress that there are large distances in Norway, and for some it is actually shorter distance from Amsterdam and further to prison Norwayrhaven than it is to some places in Norway. By freeing up capacity in Norway by the fact that foreign nationals mainly use prison in the Netherlands, one actually frees up capacity so that even more prisoners in Norway can zone closer to their relatives, and that is positive. This is basically a three-year agreement, and I hope it will be completed in three years' time, but that means that we need to focus on what has been important for the cooperation parties, namely to build up the capacity in Norway that unfortunately has not been built up in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e675	I just want to make one thing clear first: it's that the center party today is on two suggestions. The first thing we are together with the Labour Party about, and there's talk of terminating this agreement with the Netherlands. We know that we don't get multiples for that, but then we also have another proposal. It's stopping the forced dispatch of Norwegian citizens to prison in the Netherlands, and that's where we hoped the majority could be. In a good legal state, there is good criminal care with acquittals that tend to be more than punishment. Rehabilitation is an important keyword. The goal is for the most likely of those who son the punishment to continue in life as law-abiding citizens afterwards. We have agreements on settlement transfers with some countries, where we can send convicted criminals to their homes when certain conditions are met. That's good. Apart from this, we have defined prisons and prisons every year as what we ourselves are doing in our state of law. With the Right and the Advance Party in government, and with the support of the Christian People's Party, the situation is different from this year. All of a sudden, we send sentences to atoning in the Netherlands, and a relatively large proportion of Norwegian citizens who are sent there are sent by compulsion. We politicians have a duty to problematize what we're doing, in between. We have to take a foot in the ground from time to time and assess whether what we're doing is right. When we see the comments from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party on this matter, we understand that they have absolutely no intention of taking a foot in the ground to think about it. On the contrary, they doubt that they are right, even if it should ring an alarm clock when we get the right that some have attempted suicide after being notified of forced transmission. Rupstad says that there is little that has changed since June, but the consequences of forced transmission, which has been visible, are at least something new, and I think that his article was a display of debatability of a problematic decision. The centre party has concluded that we think it is wrong to rent prisons abroad. The system is flawed for reasons of principle, but also for practical reasons. It is fully possible to build up the necessary prison capacity here to land and to find temporary solutions. We are therefore busy building prison sites in Norway, while we think that the number of settlement transfers needs to be increased, so that foreign criminals can zone more in their home country. I believe that representatives from the government party are disappointed with the sitting government that has not succeeded better with this, at least considering how they themselves ran with the previous government. The centre party has gone in to build a new prison in Agder. In our alternative state budget, we have seen start-up funds for new prisons in Ålesund and Mosjøen, as well as money for more prisons in Vik and Hustad. This is a much better priority than spending money in the Netherlands and then forced prisoners there to fill up the places. However, in June this year, the majority of the population went into the Netherlands to send judges to acquittals, despite the fact that there are both principal and practical reasons for holding up. Then it's important that they remain the same big number of people were followed up to ensure the most defensive system possible. That's exactly what our presentation aims to do. When we ask the government to ‘stop immediately the expulsion of Norwegian citizens for housing in prison in the Netherlands’, it is because the number of Norwegian citizens who are compulsorily forced to do so indicates that the practice in the administration does not follow the comments of the majority of the population. The following comments state: ‘The majority emphasises that forced settlement transfers of Norwegian citizens are to be carried out as far as possible through coercion.’; So when the representative Ellingen criticises us for trying to interpret what the plural meant, I give him the chance to explain what he really meant. Because if 20 pst., as it turns out that they are being sent by force, by Norwegian citizens, is ‘at least possible’, then I find it difficult to understand that it is a follow-up to the comments. Nor do we think it is well connected with Grundlova § 106, which protects Norwegian citizens from being expelled from the country. We have underlined in a note that judges responsible for minors should not be sent out of the country. This applies to both Norwegian and foreign citizens. Yes, we can say that lawbreakers devour the punishment and have to take it they get, but the kids are an innocent party to this. We also know that contact with relatives can be a means of good rehabilitation. Summary: Governments are very busy filling up prison places in the performance project in the Netherlands, while there have been empty prisons in Norway at the same time. The center party thinks that this is a strange and unfortunate way of running criminal custody. Even more strange is the fact that Norwegian citizens have to travel practically past vacant prisons in Norway, and then become compulsive out of the country for apologies in the Netherlands. I would have liked the majority of the population to go for the last proposal – that is, what we in the Central Party are all about, to stop the forced dispatch of Norwegian citizens to the Netherlands – even if they do not want to go in to wind up the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e702	Will the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e705	Yep.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e710	Then the representative Jenny Klinge mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e714	The left has been skeptical of the agreement with the Netherlands all the way. The main reason for this was that we had no desire to force Norwegian citizens to settle abroad. It was also, as the representative Klinge was just about to say, that we did not want to force prisoners who had families in Norway, and that therefore made contact with their family difficult. It is clear that we are pleased that the smooth cell use is going down, but that is something that we had expected the Council of State to take on completely regardless of whether or not an agreement was reached with the Netherlands. There is something Norway has been criticised for repeatedly, and at least we in the Left are clear on is a human rights violation. So we're happy that the Council of States has managed to bring it down, but we think it could have been done in other ways than just through this Netherlands agreement. Recently, we have seen quite serious consequences of this agreement and the coercion that some are subjected to when they are sent down to the Netherlands. When we read in the newspapers that someone has been about to take their own life as a result of such a message, it is clear that there is something we must be able to address in the Storting. There is something we need to be able to include in an assessment of whether we are still sending Norwegian citizens under compulsion to the Netherlands. I also want to challenge the Council of State to be a little more clear about what you can do to get them to voluntarily go down to the Netherlands. When there is such a large proportion that does not travel voluntarily but is forced to do so, there must be a potential to introduce some measures and provide some incentives for a larger proportion to be reduced voluntarily. I also realized that the majority of the population at the time it was decided that we should conclude this agreement was clear that it was going to be predominantly voluntary, that volunteering was to be the starting point. Then I believe that there must be a rather strong pressure on the Council of State to get to that very thing – a large share of volunteering. I believe that there is a big difference in principle between being sent to Finnmark, Nordland or Troms and being sent to the Netherlands, even though it would be better air connections and cheaper flights to Amsterdam. Because it's actually not in Norway, and that's where the fundamental difference lies. It's not like prisoners in this country can choose where to zone, but they should be allowed to zone in their own country if that's what they want. The left will vote for both minority proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e727	I actually don't think I can remember a single new measure that hasn't been met with scepticism, resistance and creative attacks from very many teams. But I remember a lot of things that have been solved that way – through innovation, creativity and taking seriously the problems of society. When I took over the keys to the office in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, there were 1,213 people in prison queues. If we had not implemented the measures this government has implemented, that queue would most likely be much longer now. Today the queue is at 667, i.e. on Friday I believe the last figure was 667. This means that the measures taken by the government actually work. Where are the statements, which the opposition was very concerned about commenting at a very critical level, about lack of custody? They are gone, as the rapporteur said. Where are the big observations about the huge numbers of overtakings in custody places, such as the United States and Japan? The last speaker has been very engaged in? They're also more or less gone. This is because the measures work. So it's not like all solutions that are new, constructive, creative and actually solve the problems are optimal or meet our desire. I wish we were in a situation where we had enough prisons in Norway to solve this. But if that wishful dream were to be fulfilled, we had to have a government that prioritised this over time. We've had that since October 16, 2013, but I dare say we didn't have it in the eight years before. That's what we're looking at. The working party used a tool to bring down the queues on guard. In that case, the instrument was to reduce the time spent making amends, i.e. to review the Court of Justice, by promulgating release. This government does not want that. That's why it's important that we now work in parallel with expanding prison sites in Norway, while at the same time solving the acute challenge that this society is actually facing. It's still too many overshoots, but it was so that it was very, very many overshoots. It was such that there was no capacity on care, and it was an enormous pressure to solve this. I find it a bit strange when some representatives from this pulpit say that it is worrying when you have to go past empty prison places in Norway and then zone in the Netherlands. Well, the empty detention centres, as they call it, are the available custody capacity. The fact that we now have a capacity utilisation in Norwegian prisons at 96 p.m. is still very high, and it is much higher than the 90 p.m. as Stortinget has been concerned that we are going down to. So we have a long way to go before we can land it. I am a little disappointed with the Central Party, not because they have promoted this proposal – I believe that this is the basis for having major political disagreement on all political choices – but instead of just problematizing and stopping solutions that one sees working, one could perhaps suggest solutions to what is actually the problem. If the Central Party takes advantage of the proposal they have now made, the prison queues will start to increase as soon as possible. What does the Center Party want to do with that? I think it is important that we, as politicians, also take responsibility for finding solutions to problems, and I think the government has done that by thinking new. There have been some entry challenges in the Netherlands, but far fewer entry challenges than I had imagined. This is because there is a good contractual relationship and a good relationship between the Dutch and Norwegian authorities to address entry challenges. Incentives are in place for more people to want to travel to Norway voluntarily, including the following: higher daily allowance, extended telephone time, Skype opportunities, which will soon be in place, and several other conditions. In fact, in most of the prisons in Norway, there are settlements in the Netherlands that are far more than one has. The emphasis is on rehabilitation and housing as much as in Norway. I hope that we in the Stortingen can at least agree that the most important thing is that we make sure that as a society we are able to ensure that people who are convicted son as soon as possible, because it is a great burden for those who are convicted in criminal matters, to have to go and wait for the compensation. They're releasing it to a much greater extent now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e744	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e747	The sites in the Netherlands are being filled up less slowly than the State Council has previously said were possible, i.e. by the end of September. Now we're reading November, and the expectations are still not met. We can record that many of the challenges that emerged in the hearings, and which have also been pointed out by the Labour Party, seem to be striking: what can be called the expansion of the target groups, the transfer of people with shorter sentences, people in educational courses and LAR participants, an ongoing legal case, inequality of law – as the Minister of Justice has now boasted – waste of public money from a heavily underfunded criminal care, empty places and lack of schooling in the Netherlands. However, the Minister believes that the bet is very successful – as we have just heard from this pulpit. When this is the requirement of the Minister to succeed, what will the Minister's view that the project might be called a failure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e754	This is a huge success story. Here we've actually done something completely new, we've set up an agreement with another country to make sure that we're going to solve the challenges we're facing. It's good for the prisoners, it's good for society, and it's good for the criminal case chain. Of course, from time to time there are some challenges with new solutions. We have to solve those challenges. But it's also important not only to look at what's now, but also to look at what would be the alternative, because the option would be irresponsiblely high cows. It's not good for the prisoners, it's not good for rehabilitation, it's not good for the possibility for convicted people to come back to society afterwards. I think we have to think a little bit more completely when we're discussing this, not just looking at a very, very small part. It is true, as the representative says, that there has been a delay in filling up the prison sites in the Netherlands, which now have a filling rate in November of about the same as we have in Norway – if I do not remember faults. But it is simply because we have an individual assessment of whether the conditions are actually satisfied, and that is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e763	Thanks for the answer. So I interpret it as meaning that when the Stoltenberg government was able to reduce the pay queue from 3,700 to 1,200 in Norway, there was a lack of action and failure, but when the Minister of Justice takes action in the Netherlands with such great legal complications, uncertainty and ongoing legal proceedings, the Council of State is beating its chest and believes it is the most successful thing that has happened in Norway's criminal history. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e768	That was right right up to the last sentence. It is not the most successful thing that has happened in Norwegian criminal care, because there has been a lot more that has been very important. But I actually think that this is right -- that solving the problem is much better than pretending to do it. We are now implementing the length of settlement set by the courts. The working party didn't do that. The Labour Party said that the conclusions of the courts should be set aside and that they should be released more quickly. The fact that the reconciliation queue was then reduced from 3,700 to 1,200 by releasing previous prisoners, I believe that the policy is a failure, because then you don't solve the problem, you just push the problem. An illusion is made that a challenge has been solved, but prison queues quickly reconstructed. That's what we saw, and that's why we now have to solve this in a way that gives substance over time. This is why the Netherlands is an important contribution to building enough prison sites in Norway so that we can manage the settlement in Norway gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e773	First, briefly – in response to the Council of State: the Central Party spent several rounds of money on more prison sites than the government did, and I pointed out in my contribution to concrete action. To the question: Former leaders of the Per Sandberg Judicial Committee were busy that anyone should have a lower daily allowance for foreign criminals not to lure them into the country. But now, in order to attract the most potential to zone in the Netherlands, there is actually a higher daily allowance there than in Norwegian prisons, and there are currently the most foreigners to be sent to the Netherlands. My question is whether the Council of State thinks it is problematic, in relation to the previous warnings of the Progress Party against foreign criminals having a high daily allowance, and that one thus attracts them to Norway, that one has such a high daily allowance in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e780	No, I don't mean that. It is an important incentive to ensure that as many as possible choose to zone voluntarily in the Netherlands. It's a very clear signal from the Storting, as we do what the government can do, to fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e785	We just heard that the number of passes has gone down. I'm very happy about that. I think that the Council of State should have the honor of having received it. At the same time, I'm a little uncertain as to whether I heard quite correctly, because if the number of people left over is now about 500, they are – I think I heard the council say – almost gone. Then I wonder if the Council of State considers 500 transfers to be almost gone, whether the level of ambition of the Council of State is not that we should not have transfers in Norway, and that we should not get rid of the problem completely. I hope I heard errors, I hope that the Council of State did not devalue 500 transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e792	I will take that reward with me, but it had actually not been possible to achieve that result without the agreement with the Netherlands. It should also have the left hand side. What I said – and it might be that it was a little unpresidual – was that the headlines about the overseaters are almost gone, not that the oversealing is almost gone. I even think I said that the number of people we have now is still too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e800	If nothing else, at least I can find the intensity of the involvement of the Council of State in this matter of inspiration. I record that he mentions the Dutch project as a success story, while there is also a case against the state in connection with it. Then his statements are either very fresh or not quite so fresh. I still took the word now because he didn't answer Kari Henriksen's very serious questions. When there are people who are being sent to LAR treatment – even if one said not to send them over – when one said that volunteering should be the main rule, while four out of ten who are being sent are being sent under coercion, when empty places are in the Netherlands and one still characterises this as a success story, it is nighing to ask: What is the criterion of being able to say that the project has failed to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e809	I believe that I've answered a lot of times, for example. that we now have a significantly lower number of overseaters, we have access to custody facilities, we have a capacity utilisation in Norway that is now slightly lower than it has been in the past, and the pay queue is incredibly much lower than it was when the Workers' Party left the Ministry of Justice and Defence. These are very positive developments, such as: This is because of the opportunity we have to leave a number of detention zones in the Netherlands. So, of course, when it comes to the question of LAR treatment, the question is really the opposite. Should we deny people who want to travel to the Netherlands, where they have a LAR offer similar to that in Norway, to go there? What would be the argument for that? I believe that we must facilitate that those who want to travel should be allowed to do so, if there are no particular reasons why they should not be allowed to do so. All are subject to an individual assessment of their suitability for zone in the Netherlands. There is a thorough and real job done. It is also a bit of the reason that all the places are not filled up yet, but they will be filled up afterwards. There will be no particularly high number of job vacancies in the Netherlands than elsewhere in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e816	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e821	I think this is a very outrageous debate. I hear the Council of State say that the agreement with the Netherlands has been a huge success story in many areas, but from time to time there are some challenges. It was these challenges that made me the initiator of this case. One of the challenges, as Bergen’s Official Journal reported, is that a person who had been told that he would be forced to go to the Netherlands was trying to take his own life. We also read in the newspaper the same day that the same thing had happened in Oslo the month before, i.e. in August – that there was an inmate in Oslo prison who had received a letter that he would be transferred to the Netherlands, and who then tried to take his own life. I think there should be limits to the consequences of political decisions we are going to accept here in the Grand Duchy. I am not going to do a rematch – as the representative Ropstad said – on the agreement with the Netherlands, but our proposal is that we should stop the coercive broadcasts precisely because it has been shown to have some consequences that I think are harmless, even if one can show that this also has some positive effects, for example. on the bonding capacity. Another thing is that there's not much more in Stortinget in this case. It is the Christian People's Party that creates multiple languages with the government. In the setting, the Christian People's Party clearly stated – together with the Government Party – that housing in the Netherlands as a general rule should apply to foreign citizens, and that settlement transfer should be carried out at least possible by coercion. Now we tell you that as many as four out of ten are being sent by force. I can't understand, if a person meant one, and then a letter entered into the agreement, that one should be so easy to get away from it. I simply cannot understand that the Christian People's Party does not put its foot down in this matter. So for patients who are being sent out, who are at the LAR. There is a clear comment in the setting that those who are in LAR should not be sent to the Netherlands for compensation. It doesn't help you to do it again and in a way ridicules the whole issue by saying that you can't deny them to be sent out on the LAR if they want to. The point is that the Storting has said something else, and when you have a government council that doesn't base the Storting's will, it's problematic in several areas. I think the only right thing would have been for one to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e832	This is not the big discussion about prison in the Netherlands, so I'm not taking all the principal, practical, democratic and economic issues that it's sending the money to Norwegian taxpayers out of the country rather than investing them on Norwegian soil. What I want to say is, what are the representatives from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party doing now? Elling says that one of these is adding up a kind of rematch from the Labour Party and the Center Party's side, but what we're pointing out is that it's necessary to look again at what we're actually doing here. What they're doing is they're modifying and clarifying what's been said in their own positions, as they've been formulated and adopted on the Storting. One example is LAR processing. There they wrote emphatically: not to be transferred, but they have sent people who have been to that type of treatment. So the Minister of Justice asks, what is the alternative? The answer is clear and clear. The alternative is to respect the Storting decision. The option is to stick to the assessments that have been made. I argued that the majority who formulated that comment made assessments before they wrote it. I also notice that on the one hand, there is a clear indication that the prisoners should not decide what is right for them when they are going to be born, but right here, when it comes to LAR treatment, it is clearly very important that they have to decide where they are going to be born. The same applies to volunteering. There was a number that was clear that they meant that the general rule was to be voluntary. Nevertheless, 72 out of 172 were sent to the Netherlands under compulsion. That means four out of ten of those sent. That means almost half of those sons in the Netherlands. Continuing to claim that there is some kind of rule that is heavily attached to volunteering is hard to trust. I had not expected any particularly strong reactions from the Right and the Advance Party on it – so honestly I must be. But from the Christian People's Party I had expected something better. When the representative from the Christian People's Party points to Eidsberg and Ullersmo and that one builds capacity there, I will remind you that it builds there, is replacement capacity, not new places for Norway. I also feel refuted as a song, about Stoltenberg II and prison capacity and criminal care. This applies to several representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. There is the reality that the Labour Party halved more than half the pay queue and made sure of all the money for building Halden prison. What is being demanded of Minister of Justice Anundsen, we will see in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e849	Let me first say to the previous speaker that there is a great difference between the Storting's majority remarks and what has actually been adopted. There is a significant difference in purely constitutional terms. What is the problem in this matter that we are debating is that at the time of the government change, there were 1,213 judges in pay queues. That's the problem. There's too many of them. It is the red-greens' responsibility that there were so many people who had to put their lives on hold without the opportunity to plan their everyday lives separately or their closest ones, with a high risk of relapse to new crime and corresponding increased social problems. 1213 judges in pay queues are a problem because it led to 98 p.m. capacity utilisation in Norwegian prisons, with associated difficult working conditions for employees and a corresponding reduction in the quality of the rehabilitation of prisoners. It is a problem that 1,213 judges were in a pay queue at the government change because it pushed the capacity of custody stations. I still remember that the previous Justice Department was visiting Hedmark Police District, and the police officer at Hamar could tell us that he had custody in Finnmark. I'd say it's a problem, for several reasons. 1213 judges in pay queues are also a major social problem because it led to a large number of overshooters, with the comments that we know about human rights violations. All of this has now been reduced by this government. These are problems we took over from the red-green ones. We are doing well to resolve this with the current government and with the good support of the Christian People's Party. - Thank you for that. The problem is also in this debate because the Labour Party and the Central Party have no answer. What is the option if we wind up 242 places in the Netherlands? The problems I have described are getting bigger – not less – and we have not received an answer from the opposition on how to meet the challenge we would then face. I ask for that in the debate and I listen eagerly for answers to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e858	This became a good debate – and a value debate, in many ways. I think it is good that it is, because I am convinced that when the Bondevik II government sat – with Odd Einar Dørum as Minister of Justice – and a penalty discount was introduced, one was aware that it was going to be challenging for the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right to defend it, but because the situation was as it was, they chose to do it anyway. I respect it, but the Progress Party voted against it that time. When Knut Storberget did something similar, I am sure he was aware that this was going to be demanding, and that they were going to have political Christmas for it, but that they had to do something for the sake of the reconciliation cows. It's for me, it's anchored in value. It's acceptable, even though I'm deeply in disagreement. What today's government is doing is a whole new medicine. We, this government, are doing something that hasn't been done before, and the Storting has said yes to it. We think outside the box, and we have more than two thoughts in our head at the same time. One of the paradoxes of this debate, as it was during the debate on the report. St. 12 for 2014–2015, there is no one who has talked about the role of the victims in this. We're talking about how bad it is for the prisoners, we're talking about how sad it is to be sent to the Netherlands or Finnmark. In any case, I believe in principle that whoever is responsible for the execution of the penalty is the individual who has committed crime. If you do not commit crime, you do not travel from your family, you do not get sent to the Netherlands – unless you travel voluntarily – and you do not travel to Finnmark or Nordland, for that matter. The point is, the community can't accept that we have a system where the reconciliation queues are increasing because you haven't taken responsibility for expanding the necessary capacity. This government thinks outside the box, the Storting agrees, and we've put the lead for it. Once again, I record that the minority wants to define what the majority has meant. The majority do well to do it on their own, and it has been summed up by all of those who have been up here from the position and from the majority. But again, I think it's strange. One of the main reasons why I think it's good to think outside the box is that the victims of the crime see that whoever has committed a lie has actually to go in and zone. You don't have to meet the person on the street while he's in a row queue. You don't have to be afraid because you don't know where he is. To get people to pay their penalty, we have to have free capacity, and we don't want to go the way that the Central Party writes about in its comments, that one of the measures is to assess it. In the case of Agder, I believe – as the Central Party has proposed – that Agder should be built in prison. The government agrees, it agrees with the majority of the population, but there are no inflatable prisons that can only be set up in Agder. It shall be designed, built and granted. It's going to happen, and it's going to happen on this guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e873	I'm just going to make a few brief comments on the challenges I'm experiencing that I've been given. In the case of suicide attempts that are linked to reconciliation in the Netherlands: The first thing I did when I read about the examples was to contact the department. None of us think it's nice to read about such cases, but I'll warn the representatives in the hall against using the examples too much in the political debate, because if one goes into each case, it's not sure that the story is how it's made in the media. I don't want to go into the details of the cases, but I want to fight for the best possible rehabilitation, whether it's in the Netherlands or in Norwegian prisons, because there's unfortunately too many suicide attempts, but there's a story behind them. I can talk afterwards to the representatives who have mentioned this, about each case, and they can contact the criminal services to hear about it, but I would at least note it once it has been said. In the case of LAR: When we entered into the agreement on the Netherlands, we were subject to some restrictions relating to who would be sent there, for example. if you cared for your own children etc. LAR was one of the criteria. Then came the first complaint of atonement in the Netherlands. It wasn't because someone didn't want to travel, but because there was someone who wanted to travel, and they were connected to the LAR. I got a question related to that matter. The reason we said no to LAR patients was that we thought the treatment offer was not good enough. The understanding of the note is, as several have underlined, the majority parties among themselves. And when I got confirmation that the offer was good enough, and that it was desirable to travel, I thought it was better for an LAR patient who would get his treatment needs properly met, and who wanted to travel voluntarily, to travel, than for those who did not want to travel, and who would then be sent by force, to travel. So for the Christian People's Party, it was a simple choice. The point of the constraint we put in was, of course, to protect those who were going to zone. The last thing I want to say is about volunteering. Yes, it can certainly be interpreted. My point has always been that in that prison, mainly foreign citizens should zone. Why? Well, because basically they should be zoned in their home country, there should be compensation transfers, etc. We all know that this is not as simple as we would like, but I do not have such a big problem with those sons in the Netherlands. I think that's okay. When we were concerned that it should be primarily voluntary, according to the Directorate of Criminal Affairs on 6 November 2015, there were 256 decisions – as I said in my post – and there are 32 decisions on coercion related to Norwegian prisoners. That's 12-13 pst., at least as I've learned the percentage. I would say that means ‘mainly’, but I would like to stress that I am asking the ministry to strive for this in as many cases as possible and mainly by volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e886	I fully agree with Ellingen, for once, that this is a matter of value, and that there have been value arguments in this matter – important value arguments. I disagree with Ropstad that the consequences this has for individuals should not, in fact, play a role in this matter. When I experience that the Christian People's Party acts as a kind of tradesman on medical and social issues on behalf of the government, or for the government, I just leave those statements to myself. The values we're talking about are: are we going to solve this in Norway, or are we going to solve it by sending money and people out of the country by coercion? Here, the Stoltenberg government said, when it had power, we're going to solve the challenges in Norway. When we took over, the queue was 3,700. When we left the table, it's right that it was 1,200. We managed that reduction by taking action in Norway, with good rehabilitation, good alternative forms of reconciliation, close follow-up and stricter penalties, but with a value view that those who commit crime on Norwegian soil will zone on Norwegian soil. That's the value question we're discussing here today. We are also discussing another issue of value – whether Norwegian prisoners have priority over foreign prisoners. The Minister of Justice himself argues that if one had sent only foreigners – perhaps the Advance Party prefers to – to the rest of the world, there would have been a violation of the Discrimination Act. Therefore Norwegian citizens must also be sent abroad. So to Werp, who is calling for concrete proposals. I have a good relationship with the representative and believe he is an enlightened and wise man, but it is a little strange that he has not received the representative proposals we have submitted, the comments we have written in our settings, and the proposals we have made to solve this problem in Norway. Then we can disagree. Your argument has been that the proposals have not been good enough, it is a completely fair matter. But to say that we have not submitted proposals, I find alarming from a Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e897	The resistance of the Labour Party to restitution in the Netherlands is beginning to be their paradisaic number in an otherwise meagre justice policy. The fact is, it is in the interest of both society and the convicted people to come to settlement as quickly as possible. In this way, the settlement offer in the Netherlands is a good offer for those in line. It is very unfortunate that people are in line for reconciliation, and there are many reasons why people are standing there. One of the reasons — and indeed the problem that was handed over from the red-green to the current government — was that the maintenance allowance in prison was so large that the settlement capacity was gradually eaten up. Something had to be done. This is a temporary measure in an entirely exceptional situation. We already see the results: there are 400 fewer unconditional judges who are now in prison queues than it was when this government took over. Policies work. Presenting accolades in the Netherlands as a form of banishment is simply not right. The housing conditions in the Netherlands are fully at the same level as the housing conditions in Norway. We must remember that criminal services in the Netherlands as well as in Norway have been developed on a humanitarian basis, and it is international conventions that are well on the way to governing the settlement conditions in the different countries. The government has committed itself to 550 new prisons. It's a formidable increase. We see the result, and the result will be even better in time to come. One third of prisoners in Norwegian prisons are foreigners. They will meet settlement relationships in the Netherlands, which in many cases are far better than settlement conditions in their home country. In this way, there is no reason to complain. Very many of the foreigners who are to zone in the Netherlands are also not to be returned to a life in Norway and are thus not entitled to the same rehabilitation services as Norwegian prisoners. There is also reason to note that Norwegian prisoners in a training course are not to be transferred to housing in the Netherlands. All in all, all considerations balanced against each other, this is a good solution for both society and the prisoner. Finally, we have to remember that it is actually shorter from Norway to the Netherlands than it is from many places in Norway to current settlements that could have been used in Norway. As you know, there is no free settlement choice in Norway either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e912	There has been a lot of talk about value choices today. I think a little bit of the reason that there's been a lot of talk about value choices is that the Workers' Party and the Center have directed the shooting at the Christian People's Party. I think that is quite unreasonable. The Christian People's Party has had a completely tidy line in this matter from the start. They have been committed to finding practical, good solutions to serious societal challenges in the absence of settlement capacity. It's more or less a choice of values, it's also, the way you attack your political opponents, and I just don't think that the Christian People's Party deserves the criticism they've got. Rather, on the contrary, they deserve praise for having contributed to the fact that this has become a very good solution, and they have contributed in the process in such a way that it has become an even better solution. When I asked questions in my previous post about what the alternative to this was, the chairman of the committee said something such as that the alternative was to follow the Storting decision. Yes, we do. We're following Storting's decision. What the chairman of the committee probably thought, was that we should also follow the majority comment of the Storting, and I think we will also do that after we have clarified with the parties that are actually behind that remark, how it should be followed up and handled. But of course that was not what I was looking for. I was looking to know what the Workers' Party is going to do to ensure that we get enough accommodations in Norway, which they didn't do for the eight years they had the chance to influence it. What is the alternative, what is the solution to the problem: overtaking, lack of shelters, people in queues waiting to move on in their lives? It's also a value choice. What the Workers' Party says they're taking is that it's okay that we have too many people left behind, that it's okay that you have to wait a long time to make up, that it's okay that you don't solve the challenges you're actually facing. Or is it what the representative was up to say instead, that perhaps one should have used the same solution that the Labour Party did last – that is, to use forward release, that is, to release prisoners before the court has ruled? If that is the solution, I think it is a good proposal. So I completely disagree with that, but it is a proposal that will help solve the problem. That's what the value is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e924	I would like to thank the representative Henriksen for the pleasant characteristics, and I have no problem returning them to the representative Henriksen. So to the matter: value selection is demanded – from a point of view where one can understand that the representative Henriksen believes to have all the values on his side, and that the opposition represents the exact opposite, i.e. the absence of values. I react to that, because the whole background of this case is a choice of values where you recognize that it is a problem for a person who is waiting for reconciliation and who has to wait a long time. I believe it is a positive choice of value for this government that it has prioritised getting the most out of the queue as soon as possible – and this government is clear. We took over a pay queue of 1,213 people from the red-greens, which is now reduced to 667 – which is the most up-to-date number. I believe it is to the greatest extent a consequence of a conscious choice of values from the government and the Christian People's Party. I am still waiting for an answer from the Workers' Party on how they will solve it – because their proposals will increase the pay queue. There's a difference in the short and long term. The government established 242 places in the Netherlands, which produced rapid power. Removing them and establishing the corresponding number of places in Norway is a long-term project. Everyone has registered the Labour Party's proposal, of course, but it does not solve what is the problem here and now. Again, with the support of the Christian People's Party, the government has taken a choice of values, taking into account the personal burdens, i.e.: Individually and for the system, we know that we have a reconciliation queue. We've solved that a long time ago. We still have a way to go, but I have seen no alternative to that solution from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e937	Kari Henriksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e940	To the representative of Werp, I talked about choices between values. If he felt that some values were set over others from this pulpit by my side, that was not the purpose. I made it clear that there were choices between different values, as the representative Ellingsen also talked about, and I record that one has taken different directions there. As far as forward release is concerned, I just need to say that there was a scheme introduced by the Bondevik government, which our government solved by action on Norwegian soil. The Stoltenberg government got rid of the anticipated release, they got away with duplication, by action on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e947	This is a special debate. There are two proposals that we have ahead of us today and that we are going to vote on. The only thing is whether we're going to cancel the agreement with the Netherlands. We know that we don't get multiples for that. The second is to stop the forced dispatch of Norwegian citizens to the Netherlands. The debate will be a conspiracy. It's not strange, and it's quite fine and good at the same time, but at the same time: what I had wanted from the big crowd is more reason for why not be on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox If there is a doubt about this system of sending to the Netherlands, there are a number of comments saying that one should send Norwegian citizens at least by coercion, and we see that at least on October 23 there were 20 pst. Of the Norwegian citizens on whom the decision was taken, just sent by coercion, my question will be: Is this to the least possible extent? And if that's not the case, why can't we say that no, we're not actually going to send Norwegian citizens with coercion to the Netherlands? I would have liked the bulk of the population not only to have a position on it, but also to agree that it would be a sensible thing to do – if one would doubt that this system of detention places in the Netherlands will continue until further notice. It is also true that neither Anundsen nor Werp can have read the comments of the Centre Party and proposals from the deliberation of the development plan for criminal services that we have addressed in our – and also have not looked at our alternative state budget – because there we come with concrete measures and money and say what we want to do. The question is how much money is going to be spent. While the government is investing in building up prison places in the Netherlands – which is expensive, one pays large sums for places available, and one is forced to make it possible for this to be justified – we want to spend the money here in the country. We think that would make more sense. We are contacted by prisons around the country that say: See here, here we have vacancies that can be converted, with relatively simple grips, into new prisons. I think the government would have liked to have been creative and seen even more of such solutions instead of insisting that the Netherlands should continue as a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e958	I am asking for the word at the end just because I do not want it to remain as a sort of misunderstanding that the government is building up prison places in the Netherlands. We don't. We rent prison places in the Netherlands that are already there. So that means that we're costing the operation of those prison grounds. If we had the 242 prison sites in Norway, the operating costs would be about the same. The challenge is that we in Norway first have to build the 242 places, and the solution that we have now frees 242 places – if we can get 100 pst. capacity utilisation, which is, of course, very demanding in any Norwegian prison, because there is some flexibility in it. But we have a situation where we have access to places that the Central Party has not proposed to be resolved in Norway. So it's directly wrong when you create the impression that 242 places can be created in Norway today that you're just going to run with the money that we're running the rented Dutch prisons for. It's also wrong – and I'm really a little worried – when Jenny Klinge says that she's still getting calls about vacant prisons. We have a capacity utilisation per now of about 96 pst. That means there are quite a few spaces available. Of course, we never get up to 100 pst. coverage, and there's a measure in the Stortinget that it's going down to 90 pst, so it's going to be empty space. It was probably not the number of places Klinge said she got the telephones about, but projects that could be carried out. We have a number of projects like this, which we've come a long way with, which allow us to expand prison sites within existing walls. I guess that's the kind of project that Klinge also gets phones on, and so we're working on it. But that's not what's going to be done in a month, or two or three. One must project, grant, build and then put into service. That's why this agreement with the Netherlands is so good, because then we have the temporary capacity that we can't get in any other way now, while building up the corresponding capacity in Norway that we can use in the future. That's the whole point. And to the extent that it's a value debate, at least I'm very happy that it's the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right who are in the leadership of this case, and that it's also holding well through this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e983	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e986	In Norway, we have a policy that enables many to own their own homes, including: through our tax policy, deregulated housing market and the Housing Saving for Youth scheme, to mention something. Many therefore get into the housing market, and I think that is positive. The purchase of housing is for most of the largest investment you make, and it is important that the sale of housing is therefore safe. But as in all physical things, there will always be a certain risk in large transactions. A positive development in recent years is that there has been a large increase in the number of persons choosing to take out insurance for the change of ownership – a voluntary scheme that increases the security of the buyer and the seller. The parties to the Government believe that, although, unfortunately, the scope of disputes in respect of transfers of property remains too large, we are not convinced that amendments to the law of disposal or the introduction of several mandatory requirements in respect of transactions in property will necessarily have a desired effect in the form of fewer disputes. Since the adoption of the law on disposal, we have received a significant degree of law enforcement. Based on this case law and in addition to legal theory, the legal content of the law has become increasingly clear. Therefore, making major changes to the law now could be a conflict-making process, simply because of the fact that new provisions also create a new uncertainty about the legal situation. It is not practicable, or to the extent desirable, to have legislation that is so concrete and casuistic that one should be able to read to a solution adapted to any possible situation. Nor is Norwegian legislative practice against more generally designed legal provisions – especially in the field of contract law. The requirement for mandatory technical state reports is also not necessarily consumer-friendly, as can be read from the proposers. Firstly, the disposal law is not a traditional consumer law. It greatly regulates transactions or sales between consumers. Therefore, there is no automation in the fact that changes will be consumer friendly. Secondly, such reports will in many cases be an abominable element, as is the case in Denmark, to which the proposers also refer. It is also limited what such reports can actually reveal, and the value of the reports as long as significant reservations regarding their content and conclusions will have to be made. In addition, mandatory reports are an intervention in the freedom of contract, which the government parties do not consider desirable. In many cases where the parties to the agreement wish to move quickly or where the parties have confidence in each other, a technical state report will often be superfluous. The same applies, for example: intragroup transfers, which constitute quite a number of transactions. The right therefore believes that the problem of many disputes should be resolved in ways other than by new legislation. We are positive about industry initiatives, which can develop better practices and further to mitigate the level of conflict. We also want to wait for the announced work on the valuers and ask the government to assess this and also other measures that can contribute to safer housing trade, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1012	Buying housing is a big and important investment for most of us, an investment that many people have to borrow quite a lot to realize. Fortunately, many people in Norway are able to obtain owner-occupied housing, but it is also an area that is subject to many challenges. Neither the seller nor the purchaser is as safe as they might think, when they buy or sell housing. The Consumer Council reports that about 40 pst. the housing buyers discover faults or defects after the acquisition that they were not made aware of during the purchase and every five housing sales end in conflict. These are not nice numbers, and this fact creates anxiety and concerns for both parties. Most of us have heard stories about housing transfers where one was sitting at high cost because defects were not communicated correctly or understood correctly. The buyer and seller are amateurs. This contributes to making the purchase of housing more unsafe than it should be. The industry itself has taken good initiatives to increase security, and several actors believe that it is possible to improve the way in which this is done, with relatively simple grips. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that the Ministry has taken the initiative to address some of these challenges in a legislative proposal with which they will come back to the Stortinget. But the majority in this case seems skeptical that changes to the law of disposal, which we in the Workers' Party believe would have been the best solution, have major legal complications for the seller and the buyer. It doesn't make sense to me that you are not willing to evaluate the tools you actually have and that more people in the industry are looking for, just to create greater security for the buyer and the seller. In the comments, it may seem that the majority has deepened in legal reasoning: Is the law of disposal a consumer law or not? The Workers' Party does not consider that to be an issue of particular interest. The question for the buyer and the seller is: What can secure me in situations where I should sell or buy an apartment or house and invest quite a lot of money? It is argued against a mandatory report because it is an intervention in freedom of contract. During the hearing in the case, there was broad support for a review of the disposal law or a better regulation of the industry in order to make the transactions safer for the consumer. Several people had concrete insights into what could help secure purchases and sales. Nevertheless, it is good that another minority does not close the door completely to see ways to make the purchase and sale of dwellings safer. Denmark has a model where you can choose between two schemes, and there is a 80 pst drop in the number of cases in the courts. after the new rules came into force. The working party wants the level of conflict to decrease and housing transactions to be safer for the consumer. We believe that it is high time to revise the disposal law. We do not agree with the consequences that the majority believe this could have, because there would then be a law that had come to the Stortinget, one could have a hearing, and one could have closed away a good part of the thoughtful issues that the majority says would be a consequence of it. I would like to take up the Workers' Party's proposal for a decision and to announce that we subsidly support the proposal for a decision by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1029	The representative Kari Henriksen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1032	First, I want to pay tribute to the proposers, because it is an important proposal and they address an important topic, and I fully share the intentions of the proposers regarding the objective we all have of safer housing, both for sellers and for buyers. Buying a home is one of the most important investments you make as a consumer or as a human being. It's huge sums, and it's very demanding and very serious for those who end up in the difficult situations that you hear about. So initially, I'm very positive to a lot of what's in the proposal, but I'm going to end up fully with what the rapporteur said in his good report. There are a number of factors that make me not automatically supporting the proposal, and therefore I would rather refer to the work that is going on, and refer to what the committee is gathering about, and which is going to be adopted here today, namely that one will have a separate case relating to how to make housing trade safer, both for the buyer and for the seller. I would also like to say that mandatory technical state reports can, as the case-rapporteur said, be exhaustive in some cases, and we also write about that in the comments. I also see that they are very much used in relation to single homes, where we know that the risk of damage is much greater, so I would definitely encourage that the industry itself – at least until any changes are in place and possible regulation of it – must work on increasing the use of state reports where that makes sense. Finally, I just want to say that a revision of the law on disposal can actually be a good proposal, but the hearings we have received are clear that one does not want a rapid revision now. But I would also like to say that by the Christian People's Party, we are not opposed to getting a possible revision, or assessment, of the law of disposal if that is what the government finds out, would make sense when looking at measures to secure housing trade both for the buyer and the seller – then I am absolutely not against it. It is at least my opinion that both stakeholders in this matter are concerned about it, and at least we can take it with us and listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1043	Buying housing is one of the biggest and most difficult decisions we make in life, and it has great economic consequences. Many of us don't do it so many times in life either, so you don't build on it from time to time. We have too many conflicts in this area in our society, which takes up a lot of our legal system, and it takes away a lot of power that should have been spent on other things. But I want to start by saying that we're very positive that this proposal is being promoted, and we think it's very good that we're getting the commitment up and down around this case and also that we're going to push the government into a job. We are basically positive about the state report, and we see that the Danish model has a lot to do with both bringing down conflicts and getting more quality out of the commercial transactions that this is about. But we're still going to vote with the majority today, because the government has promised to come back and work on this matter, so we'll get it across the board. These are rather complicated issues to go through Document 8 proposals. So the Left would like to thank you very much for the initiative of the Workers' Party. We think it was good and that this must be further worked on. We assume that the government does, and we will therefore vote with the majority in the case to get that work started. But we also want to say that we are positive about the models that this is proposed, and we think that they can have a lot to do to bring down the level of conflict in Norwegian housing trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1052	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Workers' Party for taking the initiative in this proposal. It is a very important political debate, and it is important to bear in mind in the political debate that safe trade in housing is about securing both the buyer and the seller. Therefore, it is also necessary to have a thorough assessment of the impact of the measures implemented. I am therefore also very pleased that the Committee has unanimously decided to support the work already undertaken by the government. I will nevertheless make a few comments. One concerns the number of disputes in such cases. Some of the challenge with the disputes is that there are disputes that are very often related to the technical measurement of deficiencies, and it is difficult to find a mechanism that also resolves that part of the conflict without having gone to court. That's why it's important that we have that perspective with us into that discussion. It has been shown to the Danish model. It is such that the information obligation of the seller covers the technical condition of the dwelling. That model was assessed by the Tariff Law Committee in 2009. After the Danish model, the responsibility for hidden defects and defects will be transferred from the seller to the purchaser's owner change insurance. It was pointed out by the sample that no equivalent insurance scheme is offered on the Norwegian market, and they therefore considered that it would be objectionable to introduce contractual rules which would almost require a particular insurance offer in order to be accepted as reasonable and balanced. The selection therefore concluded that no equivalent scheme should be introduced in Norwegian law. We're going to keep working on these questions. The requirement for a state report will clearly contribute to the cost of transactions and to the extent that it is an intervention in the freedom of contract. I also think it is important to remember that the turnover of the dwelling does not always happen in the way that most residential transactions actually happen. There are many different ways of selling and buying a dwelling, and therefore there is also a perspective that needs to be brought into this discussion. So the government in this work will consider several measures, including: responsibility for valuers. Today it is the case, as the case-rapporteur was also concerned, that the responsibility lies initially with the seller, even after a tariff has been implemented, without the valuer having any independent responsibility. Perhaps it would improve the quality of the fare reports if you were able to directly answer the valuer for the fare he has actually paid. But it is good that this is put on the agenda, and that there is political commitment to this issue. It's a huge investment for those who are going to buy a dwelling, and it's important that a person takes into account the interests of both the buyer and the seller.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1067	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1070	I think this has been a good debate, with many good considerations. I am particularly pleased with the signals from the Christian People's Party and the Left, which express that the solutions we have launched are interesting, even if they are voted down today. And then I look forward very much to the job that the government is now going to do to strengthen both the buyer and the seller's security in the sale of housing. The proposal to revise the law on disposal is not something that the Workers' Party has come up with on a dark butt all by itself. It is a proposal that has come from a working group consisting of both the Norwegian Real Estate Agency, the NITO Tax and the Norwegian Tax Association, which points out that there is a need to clarify what is the seller’s obligation to provide information and the purchaser’s obligation to investigate. What's interesting is that today's law of disposal gives the seller what's called objective liability. This means that if the seller can be held responsible for damage to the dwelling, he will have to cover the damage himself, even if he is not responsible for the damage. That kind of objective responsibility is, among other things, that. Weapon factories and other more dangerous businesses that operate, and the only way the seller can get away with that responsibility is to insure himself, as most people do. It is certainly a pleasure for insurance companies, but the problem is that today's law does not give the housing seller any opportunity to escape all or part of the responsibility by documenting the dwelling properly. In other words, today the sellers have great motivation to insure themselves, but little motivation to document the condition of the dwelling well. It is one of the fundamental problems of the law on disposal. That is why we have pointed to the Danish model. It has two tracks, and what's interesting is that the state report there is completely voluntary, which probably the majority in this room will seem very interesting, but most people choose it because it gives incentives. If a state report is chosen and this joint insurance is chosen, the risk of hidden defects and defects from amateurs is transferred to the professional parties. The insurance compensates the purchaser for hidden defects and defects and not just legal aid as in Norway. So there's all the parties to the arrangement, and there's a lot of fewer cases in the courts. I would like to pay tribute to the government for what is now being launched in relation to the tariff industry. That's very good, and that's also supported by the tariff industry itself. Then I'm more sceptical about the proposal to clarify the broker's advisory duty. It is at best a cosmetic change, and it is also clearly noted from among others. Property brokers' union that it will have little effect. I think, of course, that we are saddened today, but I am pleased that the process is continuing. The Labour Party is ready to contribute several constructive proposals to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1086	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1100	This proposition is provided by the government as a follow-up to the new penal code, as it is necessary to have up-to-date permits for the issue of a police certificate. These amendments include the addition of references to the corresponding provisions of the new law in the provisions referring to specific penalties in the old criminal law. In addition, amendments to certain provisions of the Police Register Act are proposed in order to adapt the provisions to the new penal code. The proposed amendments do not entail any changes in reality and a unanimous committee is joining them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1123	The aim of changing the rules relating to the loss of income for young people is to strengthen the protection of young victims in the form of compensation, and it has been shown in the process that there is strong support from the hearing bodies around the main features of the proposed new rules. It has also been very much in agreement in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to thank you for your good cooperation there. We hope that the changes will create more carelessness as well as a more accurate and more nuanced measurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1130	Let me first be very pleased to say that there is a unanimous committee that is behind this matter. This is a matter of great importance to those that this case actually concerns. This will help to ensure that children who have previously received relatively lower compensation than the other victim will now receive compensation at the corresponding level. It has been an unreasonable fact that people who are injured in childhood actually get worse than the others who are injured later in life do. That is why this change will have a major impact on many people in the future. I think it was important to say it from this pulpit, because sometimes we have big political debates about things that may not be so important to people, but this is incredibly important to them it touches, and I think it deserves attention that we have now actually cleared up what has been an injustice really, for a very long time. The new compensation rules will result in a two-part compensation payment, a division into two different areas, so that a more real loss point can be taken into account when measuring the compensation. I think it is good to thank the Committee for a good work on this, and I am very pleased that it is a unanimous support for the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1145	It seems that the Storting is then ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1164	The President has registered that Petter Wille is in the lodge, and wants him to be happy to build up the Storting's new national human rights institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1200	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1343	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1353	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1361	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the repeal of Law 18 May 2001 No. 21 on the implementation of penalties etc., § 1a on the implementation of penalties in another country, and on the termination of the agreement with the Dutch authorities on the rental of prisons, as soon as possible.’ The President pointed out that the Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1389	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to suspend the expulsion of Norwegian nationals for residence in prison in the Netherlands.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal and the Workers' Party has announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1424	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal, no. 1, on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch a rapid revision of the disposal law with a view to clarifying the seller’s and purchaser’s rights and obligations. Such a review must assess whether the information obligation of the seller is to cover the technical condition of the dwelling and whether the good experience gained from the Danish scheme can be transferred to Norwegian legislation.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1450	The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party will support I. – It looks like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1626	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1636	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1820	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1831	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-26.ana.ud2208e1844	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not the case.
