ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e49	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e52	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to secure the Skeivt archive in Bergen for permanent operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e57	The representative, Mr Renate Håheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e60	On behalf of Mr Wickholm, Mr Aukrust, Mr Nybakk, Mr Aasen, Mr Sivertsen, I would like to promote a draft representative on an identity clearance programme for Iraqis in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e65	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e68	On behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to propose that all schools become dyslexic and dyscalable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e73	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e76	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I would like to put forward a representative proposal to halve the casting in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e82	The representative, Mr Breivik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e85	On behalf of André N. Skjelstad, Pál Farstad, Iselin Nybø and myself, I propose a proposal for energy efficiency on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e90	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e93	This aberration with representative proposals can hardly be called a gold rush, but I dare to make one myself too. On behalf of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to legislate the right of the elephant to clay ball training during the elementary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e98	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e101	I think it was very many good suggestions, I, so I promote one more, on behalf of crazy many, at first of all from the staging representatives of Audun Lysbakken and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, on the protection of the Øystese watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e106	How good they are does not play such a terrible role, they will in any case be dealt with in a regulatory way. [[muttering in the hall]] Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e157	At the request of the Financial Committee and the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Right 40 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Left 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes and Environment Party Green 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to four lines, with replies from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties, as well as up to six lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e166	There are a number of settings that are being addressed at the same time here today, and first I want to spend some time on what is usually the case in the last meeting before the summer, namely the revised national budget. The economic situation, both around us and in Norway, is more demanding than in the past. In other countries, we can talk about a persistent – partly – crisis, and we are all excited about how the situation between the EU and Greece will develop. It can get a climax at the end of this month. In the last year, developments have also reversed slightly in the Norwegian economy. Growth continues in the Norwegian economy, but there are also demanding challenges for industries and thus for individuals. I want to say that it's very easy to get involved in macro numbers and the large numbers, but for the individual, for example, will. losing a job means a lot both financially and in other ways. We can never lose sight of that. However, in Norway the situation is also more complex. We have an oil-related industry that obviously wears out as a result of a fall in oil prices over time that is significant, almost a halve. It will have consequences, and it will necessarily be noticed. This is an industry that has also had a record level before the fall came. This makes the short-term effect extra noticeable. But I still want to say that in a longer-term perspective, there is still considerable activity and investment in the oil and gas industry. I also think it is right to say that the industry has had high costs, and that the situation we are now in contributes to a more efficient use of the resources in the industry, with significant cost savings in many companies, which may in the long term be important also for the companies concerned. We also see that part of the export industry is going well. It does, of course, as a result of a significantly lower price of crowns, but we also see that in domestic food in many places it also goes quite well. So it's a composite picture, and the forecasts we were presented yesterday, and what we've got in the revised national budget, indicate that it's especially 2015 and 2016 that will be more demanding. In the big picture – now you have to be careful with metaphors, but Trygve Bratteli said when it was an oil crisis early in the 1970s, that the Norwegian situation is a ripple on the sea of wealth compared to many countries around, and after all I think it is a comparison that can stand up. However, taking into account the individual being affected, it is serious. We, the four parties behind the suspension today, have addressed this in the revised budget and also with long-term measures – I will come back to that. Yesterday the interest rate was lowered. It will also have a positive effect on Norwegian business. But there is no doubt that even for households it presents a challenge, at least for the slightly more crowded residential areas in this country. That is why I am also pleased that the government has tightened up its capital requirements. I think that is necessary and, in line with that, at least my party also recommended earlier. Then yesterday we were presented with the report of the Thøgersen Committee, analysing how oil revenues should be phased into the Norwegian economy and how budgetary policy should be affected by it. We'll probably get back to that. Then the previous governor recommended that you look at 3 pst. The return and use of oil money into the budgets, the Christian People's Party was the only party that was positive to such an assessment. I think that assessment is going to stand even in the future, given what we now see of the framework. I'm going to let it lie right now and maybe come back to it in the line change, but I have to admit that I'm very excited – very excited – about the government's response to what the Thøgersen Committee has presented. The revised national budget is an audit. What is important to meet the challenges of the Norwegian economy is primarily what we do in the long term. There I am very happy that the four parties stand together, and have done so since it became a government change, with a better course for the country to make sure that we are ready to meet new times in this country. We have jointly invested in education, research and development to a completely different extent than before. Among other things, we have a new higher education structural message was recently agreed. It's not just about money – you can always ask for more money – it's also about how to spend the money. We have also seen that the four parties have agreed on important infrastructure tasks. The four parties have agreed on a road reform and a rail reform – very important for future value creation in our country. Then we have a reform we should work together on the future, and it's on the tax side. Now, I guess this is the Scheel Committee renamed to the Tax Committee, for understandable reasons. But I hope and believe that this hall will be able to agree on important principles for our future tax system. We have that power before, we should do it again – at least agree on important principles. Then I'm absolutely sure we can discuss tax rates. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will at least work hard to achieve such an agreement, which will aim to ensure the basis of the welfare society we have and a good development for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. It was more the long-term. We're also following that up through the short term, in the light of the economic situation we're in right now. Therefore, the four batches have agreed to amend the permitting legislation. We're strengthening the apprentice's grant. We're increasing the number of places to study. We're increasing the number of action sites. We are committed to industry through the allocation of funds for pre-seed crops and to environmental technologies via Innovation Norway. And we have an agreement on the car charge side that I think is important for predictability and as a contribution to a green switch in our car park. In addition, we – the four parties – have agreed on a comprehensive package against child poverty, and I am pleased with the consensus that came just before the revised budget. In addition, from May 1st this year we have reduced the rate for children in kindergarten for those who have the worst advice. It is also a contribution to the important policy area in which we stand in common. Then, in this pre-negotiating agreement between the four parties, there is also a focus on further action against drug addicts. We have strengthened the local economy, and it will also have an employment effect. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this issue as well, and then nothing better than the fact that the whole of the Great Britain, including the Greens, is united in a joint proposal relating to country-to-country reporting, which aims to ensure that capital remains more fully where values are created, and that is not least necessary in developing countries. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e207	Until recently, there have been tough negotiations, I have understood. I am pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party has put in place an increase of 0.1 billion. kr to the local government sector. I just want to remind you that in ordinary budgetary proceedings, it would have been possible, together with the Workers' Party, to raise 3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities. They had got 500 more places of action together with us, the apprentice grant had increased somewhat, and we could get a lot more. We could get a lot together. My question is whether the representative of the Seven Seasons sometimes comes up with reflections on how much easier life on the Stortinget could actually be?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e214	Had the Christian People's Party had a clean majority in the hall, it would have been a easier life, I'm sure, at least for the KrFs. For others, it might be a slightly different dance. What I think is a little interesting – to take something that is important, the apprentice grant – how can it be that the Workers' Party can now propose a level of the apprenticeship grant that is up to NOK 10,000 higher than when they themselves were in government? There have been major changes in the Workers' Party, as we have noticed, after leaving the government offices. What we're concerned about is not just seeing what we can agree on on the plus side, we also have to see the whole of a budget. I believe that the majority constellation that is now behind this position has also shown that we are committed to long-term: infrastructure, research, education, industry – what is important for value creation and a welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e221	In the debate on the legislative part of the revised national budget, we discussed the transfer of municipal tax collection to government tax collection. It became clear in the debate that there is a majority against transferring the task from municipality to state. It's a little interesting when we look at today's budget, because today's budget shows that that reform is estimated to cost 240 million. NOK and 120 million. kr shall be granted further today. Then my question to the chairman of the Syversen is, why are we going to grant the 120 million? kr to implement a reform that we decided earlier this week not to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e228	It is a matter which has been much at stake in the context of the revised budget, to which the representative, Mr Vedum, refers. Now it is that part of the money allocated to that reform also affects part of another reform, namely the increase in borders and the transfer of tasks from customs to tax. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Finance will not spend a penny on anything that has not been decided on in this big deal. And – to put it that way – the Norwegian economy will certainly tolerate having a dollar or two in reserve at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e233	When you see how small movements it's done otherwise in the budget agreement, it's, I think, a little strange that you don't take advantage of that opportunity when it's 120 million. kr released. If you look at the budget paper as a whole, most of it is 120 million. kr related to the transfer of the tax collection function, while the total sum was 240 million. kr. You could re-dispose 120 million. kr internally. Then my final question is: the notes in the bill were actually designed as a postponement more than as a final stop. Is it such to understand that the Christian People's Party is opposed to such a transfer, or are they only cautious against now and then perhaps for the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e240	I'm not quite surprised at the question. We have, as we voted on Monday relating to the proposal for a transfer from 1 January, said no to that. Then, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum refers to, there are some comments on why: we want to see the issue in the context of an ongoing community reform, and there have also been questions about this in reality will involve a business transfer. For the Christian People's Party, there is also a question of a transfer from municipality to state will also mean that the professional resources that must nevertheless be in the municipalities become very vulnerable. So much for the moment. We have the position that we're not going for such a transfer. And then we'll see if there's going to be very heavy arguments for anyway, but it's still going to have to be seen in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e245	We have a slightly special budget spring behind us in the sense that the two government parties separate layers in the actual revision of the budget. After all, it must be a challenge for the co-operation parties of the government, which enter into an obligatory agreement and which, in exchange for it, honors it by not, for example, the agreement. to form a majority of other proposals in this Chamber. Does the representative of the Syversen and the Christian People's Party believe that it is a challenge to cooperate with the government when the government parties themselves are unable to agree on budgetary matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e251	It is quite right, as the representative Serigstad Valen says, that the agreement we have, the four parties between us, when it comes to revision, means that we should agree on proposals and on the decisions to be taken. What my personal feelings are related to one of the government parties, and how they act on a matter that is also on the agenda today – how interesting it is, I don't know, but let me say it this way: I would experience it as a challenge if I had been in the same situation as the other government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e259	The budgetary priorities of the different batches shall be made visible primarily through the treatment of the State budget each harvest. The revised budget shall be exactly that – a revision of the budget adopted but taking into account up-to-date estimates and may adjust for unforeseen events arising from the adoption of the budget. With this government, however, we see that despite the record high level of oil money consumption, what does not fit into the state budget is also taken into account in the revised budget for spring or in the context of the new aging process before Christmas. This may indicate that the government lacks the ability to prioritise. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary to make changes when we see how badly the adopted budget from last autumn is adapted to the situation we see in the Norwegian economy now. Today, when we are debating the revised national budget in the United Kingdom, it is at a time when too many businesses and too many workers are in a difficult time. For the first time in ten years, the unemployment rate in the country is over 4 p.m. When the Prime Minister opened the government’s budgetary conference for the year’s budget, she estimated that the unemployment rate could increase to 3.75 p.m. in 2015. Half a year into the budget year, we see it's over 4 pst. According to the AKU figure of the SSB, expressed in the VG last month, about 112,000 people are unemployed. That's the highest number of 22 years. In the same newspaper we could read that Norwegian Industry fears that we can get an unemployment rate of up to 200,000. In that case, it will indicate the highest unemployment since World War II. I can't go well with these numbers, but maybe it might be an idea to listen to those who know where the shoe is pressing, at least when the government in its estimation still seems to underestimate the unemployment rate. The government is talking a lot about conversion. I guess that's good. But you can be tempted to think that this is a new word, that conversion is not something that is happening in Norwegian business all the time, but something that has arisen as a result of the government change. Of course it isn't. One of the really great strengths of the Norwegian model, which makes us one of the most productive in the world, is our ability to change. Small differences between people, tripartite cooperation, tidy working conditions, competent staff – all these contribute to increased adaptability. Then it is strange that this government chooses to attack central parts of the model. More temporary work, increased differences through tax cuts to them with the most already – in combination with cuts in benefits to those with little – are hardly a recipe for success in order to increase the ability to convert. The government's most sovereign bet last fall was tax cut, mainly to the most prosperous. Nearly half of the government's tax cuts went to the richest 5 psts in the country. On the other hand, a weak municipal budget, a hospital budget of 1 billion, was presented. under the promises of the election campaign, a flat educational budget, very little for working life and cut into the welfare of a number of vulnerable groups. The revised budget is an attempt to mitigate the shortcomings and adverse effects of the government's own government budget, because we can certainly see that today's situation is somewhat different from that of the last time we dealt with a red-green revised budget, in June two years ago. Then, over an eight-year period, 370,000 new jobs had been created, the growth in the economy was good, and we had come through the greatest international setback since the 1930s. It was never about leaning back. We proposed new measures to help keep the activity up and unemployment down and to counteract what was then an increasing concern: the trend towards a two-way sharing of the Norwegian economy. A strong growth package for the mainland industry was presented, and the Scheel Committee was set up to prepare the basis for a tax reform aimed at making it more profitable to invest and create jobs in Norway. This was to take responsibility for the development of the Norwegian economy. The government's most tangible measures in the revised budget of the year are to reverse its own actions from last year on the rules of leave and action. It's all right, but we're seeing a government that's in deficit all the time. With a free time of about 3 pst. The Labour Party was always concerned with an active policy to get more people to work, to keep unemployment down. This government chooses to wait and see or follow the situation carefully, as they themselves say – with a vacancy of 4.2 pst. At the same time, we see a prime minister who, over the past few weeks, has consistently neglected to talk about government policy, about solutions to meet downtime, but instead tries to blame the previous government. She just used Dagens Nueringsliv to attack her predecessor for a lack of contracts to Norwegian shipyards. I have to respectfully say that I think the Business of the Day put the closet in place in a manager the next day, where they referred to it as a ‘Minister of State.’ After almost two years in government, it may be time to put away cheap slogans and meet the challenges we face, with action – not with passivity and disclaimers. Then I also think it is worrying if the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance believe that a decline that occurs primarily in the petroleum-related sector must be met with increased use of oil money. For many export companies, today's situation, at a low cost, is very fragile. It's these businesses we now need to borrow. They hardly need a fiscal policy that puts this into play. Yesterday, the Thögersen Committee delivered its report – it was also the committee's chairman. One of the points highlighted by Mr Thøgersen, as well as pointing out that oil money use is too high, was that fiscal policy should be adapted to the contexts but that it is not the answer when the challenge is to strengthen competitive industries. That's where we are now. The availability among young people is ten times as high as for them over the age of 54, and was measured at 9.4 pst. first quarter of 2015 of AKU. The big difference between the decline now and the one we saw in the financial crisis has been lag behind in terms of skills, especially among the youngest. Unfortunately, the government seems to be meeting this development with a shoulder move. It is the tax cuts that seem to provide the necessary transformation and growth in the economy, despite the fact that the government has not been able to demonstrate that these have any effect. The working party has other instruments. In our budget option, we are proposing a ten-point plan against increasing unemployment. These are labour market measures, we propose nearly 2,000 more places. We propose that the youngest be given priority in Nav. We propose to implement a youth promise in Nav, make sure that young people meet with a tailor-made scheme around them, get their own coordinators who follow them up in their challenging situation. We propose – as we were in the line change – a strong increase in the apprentice grant. That means we're proposing a principle where the apprenticeship grant is going up to the same level as what we're paying today on average for a high school place. This will, of course, contribute to more enterprises taking in apprentices, to more people getting through an apprenticeship, and to remedy the situation of increasing youth unemployment. We're proposing more places to study. We do this, collectively, because we know that when the younger ones get out of work, the way back often gets terribly long. Getting a big hole in the CV at the beginning of a professional career can make you never come back in. The creep that we've seen in many countries around us is that when the times turn, when the economic cycle goes up, when things go better, there's a tendency that the young unemployed, those who have ended up outside, don't join this procession. Therefore, increasing youth unemployment is among the most dangerous a country can experience, and it must meet with countermeasures before it reaches high levels. That is why we are concerned about the inaction we now see from the current government – no proposals for action, no offensiveness and really no concern to trace. Instead, we get the answer that we have to wait and see. In addition to this, we are repeating some of the proposals in our alternative budget from last autumn in a package for food development and conversion. In it lies, among other things, Action as early-stage capital targeted at business start-ups – here we saw something in the government's budget and in the agreement in Stortinget, but this is a more powerful initiative – action aimed at growth enterprises and strengthening the environmental technology system. These were proposals that were voted down last year, but which we invite Stortinget to take a new decision, in the light of the difficult economic situation we are facing. Finally, I would also like to mention the proposal for extended country-by-country reporting, which is now a unanimous proposal by the Committee. I have to say that I am very pleased that the Storting uses the treatment of the revised budget to take new steps towards greater financial transparency and fair taxation. I take this up with me the proposals that the Labour Party has on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e299	The representative of Marianne Marthinsen has then taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e304	I am recording that the representative Marthinsen believes that the government has bombed in its financial arrangement. But isn't it the Workers' Party that has bombed heavily on the state budget, where last year they would spend less money than the government provided, in a situation where we need to strengthen the effort? And is it not that the need for competitiveness and investment in mainland Norway is now necessary to create more jobs, and that in this situation, the Workers' Party is proposing strong tax incentives in relation to what was and is the government's starting point? This is the wrong medicine at the wrong time. Does the Labour Party agree that the most important thing we can do in this situation is to facilitate the creation of new profitable jobs in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e311	There is nothing more important than providing new profitable jobs. But I think it's a little strange that the representative Meling here makes it a contradiction to keep the use of oil in order and to provide for a situation in which the export-oriented industry will get better conditions, and that she believes that increasing the use of oil money is obviously the right answer. The main priority of the government in the harvest was to reduce taxes and charges for those who initially have the most. Our main criticism was that you gave too much to too few. It has not been demonstrated that this has a growth-enhancing effect on business. Despite the fact that we have proposed 2 billion. Nevertheless, we have found room for targeted, concrete measures to contribute to increasing employment and to counteract increasing unemployment, particularly among young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e320	The working party claims that they're going to give 3 billion. kr more to the municipalities. But they don't put money into this in the revised budget for 2015. Instead, the Workers' Party proposes that this be done in the new aging period until the autumn, and the cuts in the revised municipalities' framework grant of 41.7 million. Compared with the proposals made by the parties to the agreement. The fact that this is done just before a municipal election is partly alarming. What do the Workers' Party and the representative Marthinsen say to those who point out that it is little serious to propose 3 billion. kr to the municipalities that they cannot use in 2015 without it being covered, while the Workers' Party cuts the municipal framework for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e325	Thank you for the question. I think it is rather incredible that there are representatives from a government party on this side of the financial committee and demonstrate a lack of understanding of the budgetary system in the Stortinget. In the 2015 budget – current year – we proposed 3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities in addition to the government's proposals, and we proposed to compensate for the tax failure of the new age. And then we're going to stand here and hear a representative from the government parties say that we're going to grant less to the municipalities because we say no to 40 million. In the case of increased child care bureaucracies. Forty million. kr in kindergarten bureaucracy is not the only thing we vote against. We're voting against over 200 million. kr in additional red tape costs that this government wants to impose on the country, which they obviously did not have an overview of when they presented their budget before Christmas. It is a little fun that the Progress Party has turned into the pediatric bureaucrat’s tabloid – I didn’t see it coming – but I note developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e334	After the agreement on RNB became known, the reaction of Marianne Marthinsen was: ‘The main impression is that this is small and that the cooperation parties move only on smaller sums.’ In a budget of over 1,200 billion. kr it is easy to be along with Marthinsen. These are not the large amounts that have been moved. So honest we have to be. When the largest opposition party thinks it's moving at 400 million. kr is small, and they claim that they stand for a completely different and powerful direction, cf. Now, it also makes sense that the Worker's Party has an RNB scheme that actually takes a different direction and shows a monthly difference in both direction and size. The fasitator is that the working party is moving a little over 500 million. kr more. Most of the changes made to the Left and Christian People's Party are supported. So the largest opposition party is saying that it's moving about. 0.5 B.C.E. kr on a budget of more than 1200 billion. kr is the big difference in Norwegian policy, and the difference between small and large.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e346	The great difference in direction in this budget is, of course, the willingness to take seriously the developments we are now seeing in the labour market. The big difference between our alternative arrangement and what the government parties and the cooperation parties have agreed on is among other things. The powerful effort we put in to counteract the trend that we see in increasing youth unemployment. I would like to give the Left Honor so that one could negotiate in place a few more places of study, some increase in apprenticeship grants and a few more places of action. But in our alternative approach, there will be a whole range of measures that, in fact, would have helped fewer young people stay out of the labour market and risked staying there for a longer time. We also repeat a number of proposals that focus on targeted measures to strengthen Norwegian business, and in particular the part of Norwegian business that we need to borrow from in the future: entrepreneurs. I am absolutely sure that Terje Breivik would want him to vote in favour of a number of those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e353	I thought I'd ask a little bit about the longer-term challenges, because what I think is a significant distinction between this government constellation and the cooperating parties and the previous government with a majority, is that you look at what's going on in the long term to ensure that we build a welfare society further. This applies to higher education, to research, to infrastructure, road, rail – very important reforms that have also been demanded for a long time. My question is: do the Labour Party and the representative Marthinsen disagree that this is essential in the long term – in order to provide a continued good basis for Norwegian business, Norwegian jobs and therefore also the welfare society we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e361	Yes, I believe that the representative Syversen and I fully agree that research, education, and funding for infrastructure are fundamental to ensuring future growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. For this reason, during the last budgetary procedure, Stortingen has also been relatively united on precisely these priorities. But then I believe that this government project differs from the previous government project in some significant respects in terms of ensuring growth capacity and adaptability in the Norwegian economy. In particular, we need to ensure that some of the mechanisms that have contributed to the high level of adaptability that Norway has experienced so far have been taken care of. It's still about ensuring small differences between people. It is about taking care of the mechanisms of tripartite cooperation, which is one of the most fundamental to ensuring that our ability to adapt is intact over time. And it's about ensuring a decent level of basic welfare services, which are also important to people's sense of security and ability to be productive in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e371	The 2015 budget, for which we are in charge, was a budget for conversion and not least for increasing competitiveness for Norwegian business. The revised budget follows up these lines and priorities, and I am very pleased that the bourgeois majority was firmly behind the 2015 budget and is still firmly behind the changes that have been made and that are moving in the same direction. It is not the case, although we have a decline in the petroleum industry, that Norway does not have good opportunities. We have very good assumptions. We have technology, competence, capital and not least highly skilled labour, which, through conversion and improved competitiveness, can take us out of the decline we are now seeing. I hear the head of the Workers' Party say you have to listen to those who know where the shoe is pressing. Yes, the government does, and they are the ones who are going to create the jobs that are going to replace those that are going to be gone. If you ask this business, including what's in the petroleum industry, business there says that we have to look first at our own opportunities and our own cost level. How can we become competitive? Secondly, they do not demand less of what the government has proposed – they demand more. They demand increased competitiveness through, for example: more investment and better organisation of road, rail and other key infrastructures to improve competitiveness. We've spent more money on this – 10 billion. kr more in 2015 than in 2013. It ensures new jobs, and it also ensures the existing ones. Innovation and technology is another area. There we use a lot more, up to 1.5 billion. kr more for innovation in business, through the Swedish Research Council, the Swedish Tax Agency and Innovation Norway. I also mention the Climate Technology Fund, with great fill. Among other things, Norwegian Hydro has received large allocations from there. Knowledge, research and education are one of the most important ways of strengthening long-term adaptability. Training of teachers has been given priority, clusters of nutrition, the long-term research and higher education plan, also referred to by its chair. In the revised budget, we have also increased the number of study places, and we are increasing the apprenticeship grants. The third bone on which a shift and an increase in competitiveness are based is the taxes on both business and those who are at work. There is no doubt that we need to have the same conditions for Norwegian business in order to invest in Norwegian jobs as for example. Foreigners have come here to the country. It's always wanted. It's not creating bigger differences between people. It's creating less differences, because if you can invest and use your money for new jobs, it will create less differences. The greatest difference is between those in the world of work and those out of work. Whatever the tax level and whatever the position you're in, not having a job will be the worst. During the time we are in, we have also followed up on what affects the individual: changes in the rules of leave, places of action and, above all, changes in the law on working conditions, which make it easier to get people to work. And I'm very happy that we have a civil majority that ends up on this. I have heard over the last few days that the Labour Party believes that the government does not understand Norway. We understand Norway, we understand the value creators in Norway, we understand how to create jobs in Norway and how to stimulate this. That's the central point of a conversion time. A lot of other things are also important, but this is the most important thing. We have to get people to work, and we have to get them into new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e389	This is, of course, a government that, at all intersections, has increased the use of oil money, primarily to give tax gifts to the wealthiest in the country. Erna Solberg – and also the Fleet here now – argues that this should speed up the Norwegian economy. Yesterday we saw that the report of the Thøgersen Committee came, and the Thögersen also writes in a chronicle in DN: «Financial policy shall take account of economic developments but is not the answer when the challenge is to strengthen the competitive sector.» And then he goes on to write: ‘If we go a long way in increasing the use of oil revenues now, the transitions can become more demanding when, in a few years’ time, fiscal policy needs to be tightened up while oil activity is expected to continue to fall.’ The question to the agent The fleet is: Tar Thøgersen wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e406	No, Thøgersen is rarely wrong, but Wickholm is wrong when he doesn't read everything Thögersen writes. Thögersen talks about gradual phase-in; he talks about the political discretion that must lie behind the assessment of the economic cycle at all times. I do not read Thögersen so that he criticises the government for the oil money usage that has been – or criticises the previous governments, which also increased the use of oil money considerably. I think that, for example, the current budget is very well adapted to the use of oil money. I do not hear much criticism in this Chamber either. I think Wickholm should read Thøgersen a lot more nuanced. He has lifted his eyes and looked far ahead how we shall get a sustainability in the fund and in the use of oil money, and there is no such sudden cold shower, or hot shower.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e413	Before Christmas, we saw that the municipalities had a tax deficit of 2.7 billion. kr. Then it was a principle for the Right and the Advance Party that one should not compensate for the tax failure, and therefore many municipalities have also introduced increased property taxes, and we have also seen cuts in the care of the elderly. Now we see again a tax failure. In the government's estimate, it was $1.6 billion. kr, and you compensate for 1.2 billion. Now we've got numbers from the SSB, and it looks like this year too, there could be a tax failure of 2.8 billion. kr. Will the Right have the same principle this year as last year, that one will not compensate, when the government's own figures may prove to be wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e420	It has been a principle that you have not compensated. There has been an exception this year for this. I can't say anything about what you want to do in the future. So let's see what these numbers actually are. But then I hear that Battle violence Vedum is very concerned that the municipalities introduce property taxes to compensate for this. I think that the picture is a lot more nuanced than the Battle Violence Vedum is trying to pull up. There is a great difference between local authorities on how to prioritize the means they have. You can go into relatively poor municipalities – in quotes – that are doing well at a hard priority of the key core tasks, and vice versa you will see municipalities like, I'm not going to say they're wasting, but they might have a slightly more convenient way of dealing with priorities. There are differences, and we, as well as certainly the Battle of Vedum, want it to be. Municipal self-government has to decide this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e427	To the right, Bergen runs along with the Promskrittspartiet. At the beginning of the period of government I was part of, the property tax for housing was removed in Bergen. This year it will be reintroduced at a much higher level than in 2005. It's budgeted with almost 750 million. kr in increased property tax income in the budget of the municipality of Bergen. Does the representative Fleet think that the Right in Bergen is doing it with joy and because there is such an incredibly good municipal framework from the state? Or does the representative Fleet think that they do it because they feel that they have to, because the frames of the state are too bad and therefore they feel that they have to impose property taxes – if not the big cut in care? Isn't it a paradox that the largest Right-steered city outside Oslo introduces property taxes when it's the Right who has power also nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e432	I have seen that the politicians in Bergen want to introduce property taxes because they feel that it is necessary. I have not heard the exact reason. I expect that it is their own local economy that is the reason, but I have not heard that the reason is that there are too little transfers from the state, because our transfers have in general been in line with the red-green government's transfers. It's just to follow the curve all the way and compare, you can see that it was a peak in 2006 – that you had quite right, and that probably the Senter party got through in government, then the transfers were high – and that otherwise this has been at a relatively flat level, and we still have about the same level. The results from the municipalities, also in general, are not particularly worse now than they were under the red-green government, but there are differences. And the differences will always be there in a country with a lot of municipalities, maybe too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e437	I'm just going to confirm one of the things the agent Fleet said in his post, namely that cut in the property tax makes less difference in Norway. I wonder if the representative fleet could repeat that claim, so it is quite clear what he is actually saying. Is it true that the representative believes that cuts in the wealth tax in Norway give less economic differences between people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e443	Yes, the representative heard correctly, and if he has been in the Chamber during previous debates, he would have heard that I have said the exact same thing. There are no tax statistics that create differences between people in this country. What creates differences is whether you have a job – is able to support yourself and your own family and see what you can do in the future in your life, or if you don't have a job and are outside. Then the question is, who is going to create these jobs? Is it the state that is going to create them, or are we going to provide opportunities for the individual, for those who invest in Norwegian jobs? This applies not only to entrepreneurs, but to existing enterprises which can use the capital held by their owners for spin-offs and new jobs. Then we lift people out of unemployment and a bad financial situation. Yes, I can clearly confirm that this creates less differences by creating new jobs, so that people can live on their own income and shape their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e451	The government's draft revised budget 2015 is well anchored in the budget adopted by the majority of the population last year. Developments in the Norwegian economy provide stable and predictable framework conditions for stimulating value creation and employment growth in a demanding situation, with a number of industries noting the need for change. The main direction of the 2015 budget, with focus on innovation, knowledge and profitable infrastructure, is solid. Strengthening the local economy and providing room for better provision to the population, further improving the transitional arrangements of the new defray scheme, increasing labour market measures in the second half of 2015 and making it easier to maintain qualified labour during periods of temporary demand failure. It shows that the government follows developments in the economy closely, has clear priorities and adapts public action in line with the needs to mitigate the temporary nature of a necessary transition. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left contributes to an even clearer prioritisation of key areas of major common importance for the four parties. Economic policy responds well to the challenges facing Norway. Lower interest rates provide relief to the Norwegian economy, and a weaker dollar rate improves competitiveness and underpins business' ability to convert. Moderateness in the annual payroll balance is moving in the same direction and dampens output and employment. Our starting point is good; we have a flexible workforce, we have a high level of employment, and we still have relatively low unemployment. Financial policy supports growth, but without risking the krone price. The budget adopted last autumn contained a series of measures to facilitate the transformation of the economy and contribute to growth. Tax levels are falling, and during two fiscal years taxes and levies are reduced by over 13 billion. kr. In the 2015 budget alone, car charges were reduced by 1.7 billion. kr, and the government proposes new principles and new direction for the car charges, based on the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Progress Party will have a charging system that promotes new, safe and environmentally friendly cars, and it will become a reality, based on the agreement between the four cooperation parties. The Norwegian economy is characterised by the need for conversion and successful private sector conversion requires that there is also a willingness and ability to convert into the public sector. Therefore, government proposals for conversion processes and administrative reforms are important contributions to improving resource use andcoordination, red tape and efficiency. Reduced tax burden for businesses and for individuals, less bureaucracy and a simpler everyday life for most people are important political priorities for the Progress Party, and it is good that the government shows action, follows up with concrete measures and facilitates good economic development in Norway. The Labour Party continues to fester its traditional solutions to the challenges of the future, with increased taxes and taxes, more public action and greater public expenditure to build the country. In its 2015 option, the Workers' Party proposed to increase taxes by approx. 10 B.C.E. And we see the same direction in their draft revised budget. It is contrary to clear signals from Norwegian companies that want a policy for better framework conditions, better infrastructure and enhanced competitiveness, not new cost-effective taxes and public actions. The Workers' Party criticises the government's use of the government's foreign pension fund's returns, although it is clear within the action rule and not least in line with the intention of investing in knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax incentives. In their 2015 alternative budget, they raised 2 billion. kr less from the oil fund and criticised the government for new record in withdrawals. However, a lower deficit would contribute less to economic growth and employment. The Labour Party proposed to increase the tax by 10 billion. kr to finance record public expenditure growth. They criticise the government for excessive expenditure growth, but their own approach had higher growth, and a record tax increase would make it more difficult to implement a moderate wage settlement as well. It would make it less profitable to invest in Norwegian enterprises and thus in new jobs and productivity growth. The Workers' Party's analysis is crazy when they only charge increased public expenditure to ensure conversion. We're getting less growth in competitive business that delivers to the oil sector. The aim must therefore be to facilitate new jobs and growth in other competitive enterprises. We don't get that if we just shift employment from the oil industry to the public sector. New jobs in the private competitive sector are also central to ensuring sustainable government finances and a solid basis for long-term well-being. We need to use the room for action in budgetary policy to make working and investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable, not just to pump up public consumption that future generations cannot finance. In the opinion of the Finance Committee on the revised budget, the Workers' Party is very critical of the government's commitment to the municipalities, and in its note they point out that there is disagreement between the government and the KS on how the tax failure is expected to develop in 2015. If this claim is based on information provided in the audit hearing of the Financial Committee, it is quite alarming. On the contrary, in the hearing, KS stated that they consider the tax estimate in the revised budget to be reasonable, given the macroeconomic estimates in the budget, with reference to their own estimates based on alternative assumptions, inter alia. estimates by the Central Statistical Office and the Bank of Norway. With these as the starting point, the government's proposal to strengthen the local economy by 1.1 billion is required. kr extra be very satisfactory for Norwegian municipalities. In addition, the budget agreement between the four parties is 100 million. kr, so that a total of 1.2 bn is added. kr in order to ensure a good welfare offer to citizens. Simplification, reorganization and, inter alia: State funding for the care of the elderly will guarantee the rights of users nationally, irrespective of municipal priorities and the varying local economy. At the same time, we must not impose new tasks on municipalities that they do not have the capacity or the economy to do. The Government proposes a package of measures against terrorism, and it is organised to establish 35 new posts for the work of foreign fighters and the prevention of radicalisation. The revised budget provides new resources both for preparedness and for meeting challenges in a more complex and complex form than before. Radicalisation and money laundering of financial resources for terrorism are a threat to civil society in Norway. It is an important state task to protect its citizens — perhaps one of the most important. We as individuals have to feel safe every day, and we have to trust that the police have enough resources to give us that security. The decision on close police reform and the new posts which the budgets have contributed to the establishment of the police are important instruments for ensuring the security of the population. Finally, I would just like to comment on the joint proposal that has now been presented, on country-by-country reporting, where the parties are in effect asking the government to further develop the legislation that was introduced in 2014. This is in line with the view of the Progress Party, as we have also been prejudiced in the debate last Monday. We are for transparency and transparency. At the same time, account should also be taken of the enterprises to be reported and not make rapid changes. The proposal, in effect, now calls on the government to carry out a review and an evaluation of what was the aim of the Stortinge when this legislation was adopted. This fully supports the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e488	It's interesting that the representative Limi spends so much time talking about the Labour Party's policy, so now I'm going to give the representative the opportunity to talk about his own. In the vote on the revised national budget, the Progress Party, together with the Right, underlines the importance that the government conducts a responsible economic policy based on the rules of action for the use of oil money. In the last period, the Progress Party proposed what they called a new anchor for economic policy. In reality, it meant scrapping the rule of action and no longer having a framework for the use of oil money. From proposing to abandoning the rule of action to now establishing it for economic policy is a real turnaround from the Progress Party. Yesterday, the Thøgersen Committee presented its report, which several have been involved in, and the sample recommends keeping the rule of action, but having an oil money use that is far below. It is a strong emphasis on the fact that the economic policy of the Progress Party should be scrapped and not the rule of action. Is that what the Advance Party has done in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e499	I don't spend time commenting on the last statement, because it's probably falling on its own unfairness. The point is that the use of oil money needs to be adapted to the situation in the economy. The party in which the progress has been made, and which has continued in government, is twisting the use of oil against investment to build infrastructure, to build the country. We will still claim to be the correct disposal of the oil fund's returns, because we see that there is a huge lag in all public infrastructure in Norway. Therefore, we need to take a force to lift it and get up to a level that is sound and that is according to what the business community in Norway wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e504	The representative did not entirely respond to what I asked for. There is a difference between the policy pursued by the Progress Party in government and the policy pursued by the Progress Party in the previous period in opposition, among other things. you proposed a new anchor fixture, and to scrape the current rule of action, the one you are now basing on for economic policy. Does the representative have a comment on the Thygersen Committee's position, which underlines the importance of the rule of action and a lower future use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e511	I assume that the representative has come to realize that the Progress Party is in government with the Right, which is a minority government, and that one is dependent on working together with two parties in the Storing to achieve a majority. That means that what we're currently running is the government platform. In the government platform, it is defined that the rule of action should be respected. On the other hand, for the government and for the Progress Party, it is a conscious attitude to channel more funds against investment and not consumption – try to limit public expenditure, but invest in what is important to build the future and to facilitate that we can continue to have value creation and growth, which, in turn, will ensure our future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e518	I think it's on the verge of when a representative of the Finance Minister's party says that there has been a strengthening of the local economy, because the representative must know that it has not been. It's a weakening of the local economy. Last fall, there was a $2.7 billion tax loss. kr, while in the SSB's new estimate, which we have received this week, we are expected to have a tax failure of 2.8 billion. kr in year. So in sum it's going to be 5.5 billion. kr. Then the government, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, compensates for 1.2 billion. kr. So the municipalities get 4.3 billion. kr less during these two years than the size initially thought was the right level. How can this be referred to as a strengthening?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e523	The President is uncertain whether ‘freight’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e526	It is a reality that the local economy will be strengthened in revision. The government's starting point is a tax failure of SEK 1.6 billion. kr. At the same time, you can see that you have a cost development that is slightly lower than expected — ergo is what is now being added to 1.2 billion. kr, a level which KS also expressed during the consultation we had in the Financial Committee that there was reasonable reason to be satisfied with. Then you could say that the municipalities of course will always want more money, and you see that you have a number of tasks that it is important to give priority to. But in sum, I note that good feedback has been received on the proposal that is now under way, which is further reinforced by 100 million. kr through the agreement concluded with the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e534	Last fall, the government, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, presented a government budget proposing to spend billions of dollars on tax cuts to the one percent richest part of the Norwegian population. The rationale behind this proposal by the minority government, and against the recommendations of an overall opposition, which would have lower oil money usage, was that these tax cuts will give more speed to the economy and lower unemployment. Is the representative Limi satisfied with the results so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e539	As the representative Serigstad Valen probably remembers, it was stressed from the government and from the government parties in the last year's budget debate that it was important to follow developments in the Norwegian economy closely. We record positive feedback from companies, those responsible for value creation in Norway, on the policy now being pursued, and want more from the same policy. This means that tax relief, which also includes more than one percentage of the representative’s share, is important precisely in order to increase activity in the economy, to limit costs to businesses and also to contribute to moderate wage settlements in order to strengthen competitiveness. Things are interconnected, and it'll be completely wrong to focus on a few, as if they were, for example, a few. has a high wealth, is provided with significant relief as a result of changes in property taxes. This is a much larger and... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e544	It's time! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e549	We see several warning lights in the Norwegian economy, and many have felt that jobs were initially considered safe, lost or insecure. That is why, in the Central Party, we have made several proposals in the revised national budget, which we believe can provide the basis for new jobs and new activities. But the most important thing for the Norwegian economy is that we have our own currency. If it hadn't been because we had a currency of our own, we would have seen a completely different effect of the oil price drop that we've had, than what we've now witnessed. Øystein Olsen described it quite clearly in his anniversary: ‘Without a currency of its own, the situation would be more challenging. The social partners had to do the job alone. Experience from other European countries has shown that it can be demanding.’ The batches in this room that have been trailers of the introduction of the euro should then be grateful to the other batches that have made sure that it has not happened. I remember well the first period I spent at Stortinget, in 2005, when Erna Solberg heard and clearly stated that her best argument that Norway should join the EU was that we were then linked to a single currency. It was a wrong analysis. Fortunately, the Right has not received a majority for that analysis. We have our currency, and it has helped us very much, not least the competitive business. A sign that the situation in the Norwegian economy is demanding is the tax failure we see in Norwegian municipalities. Before Christmas, there was a $2.7 billion tax failure. kr. The government chose to ignore it. Then we've had several rounds around municipal economy now as well. In the government's figures, there was an estimate of 1.6 billion tax losses. kr. The figures used from KS at the same time were 1.6 – 1.9 billion. kr. Nevertheless, the government only chose to compensate for 1.1 billion. kr. So even with the government's own figures, there would be a new reduction in the welfare offer in Norwegian municipalities, in the care of the elderly, in school. So added the Christian People's Party and the Left by 100 million. kr – a slight improvement, but still a contraction compared to the calculation, and what we decided in Stortinget before Christmas. So we've got new numbers from the SSB this week. These figures show that so far the tax deficit has been 1.4 billion this year. kr. It's a little bit higher than the tax failure was at the same time last year. If you write that tax error out of the year, we could expect a tax error of 2.8 billion. kr, if it's the same evolution the rest of the year that we've seen so far this year. In other words, in two years we have had a tax failure in the municipalities of 5.5 billion. kr. It has to cover the municipalities again. When municipalities are going to cover a tax failure as large as $5.50. kr, then how can they cover it up, when we know that 70-75 pst. of the budgets of the municipalities are growing up – i.e. to school and kindergarten and the kind of services – and care? These are the large, heavy budget lines for Norwegian municipalities. The most serious part is care and care for the elderly. Some municipalities consume up to 50 pst. of its budgets on it. So the results of the government sitting passive and looking at so much tax failure in Norwegian municipalities are that it will be cut in the country's care for the elderly – just the opposite of the Progress Party promised when they entered the government offices. So some municipalities try to compensate for the cut in the care of the elderly. That's why this year we see that we have a huge growth in property taxes, because that's what municipalities can bring in themselves, and they can secure their own income. Obviously, municipalities like Bergen, which are run by the Right Party and the Advance Party, don't do that because they think it's so funny. They do it because they see that this is absolutely necessary, because the limits they get from the state are too bad. That's why Bergen has now budgeted for a growth in property tax of 750 million. kr – thanks to the policy for which the majority of today’s population is responsible. If at some point you don't turn around and see that you can't budget with one number and then the reality becomes completely different, and then you have to leave the municipalities behind with the bill, and if you don't see that it affects the elderly and the land's owners, the conflict – and the understanding of reality – between the state and the municipality gets bigger and bigger. I hope that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left will change that course during the year, and that they will offset the huge costs actually incurred by Norwegian municipalities. Then we have had a big debate on the revised national budget. It is the conversion of tax collection, customs and excise duty collection. Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, has had a major project of excellence, and it is to combine this, get everything into the tax system and get a strong centralization of the country's tax offices, from almost 300 today to 33. So you have to shift skills and jobs that are close to people who are close to business and centralize it to 33 places. It did not get a majority in the Storting at the beginning of the week, but the reform is not finally stopped. And that's amazing – when we know that the main reason why the Ministry of Finance asked for an additional 120 million. kr, was the transfer of municipal tax collectors to the State – that the government receives a majority in favour of it today, when the majority of the population is against. Usually it's like this: if I'm going to build a house, and I've made a price agreement with the joiner, and then I decide not to build the house, then I don't transfer the money. But it's not like that now. And then you can't read anything else from the comment from the Christian People's Party and the Left, except that it's not clear enough – that the government feels that they can continue to work, and that they need the authority. It's important that the Christian People's Party and the Left in the future are very clear that you don't want to centralize the tax collection, that it's not the way to go, that it's an advantage to have municipal tax collection, and that it's proven to be very effective, almost up to 100 pst. the degree of recovery, with the best results to be reported. Then there is the transfer of customs duties and the collection of excise duties and VAT. on a border crossing from the customs office to the tax office. There, the government has asked for an authorisation to develop a new computer system, called SAFIR, which now has powers of 710 million. kr in the budget. What's interesting about reading the SAFIR project's central governance document is all that's left out of that cost estimate. One is, of course, what I said last time, which is at the very beginning: «The strict time limits have not been met in all parts of the solutions as thoroughly as the tax haven would normally have done.» It's kind of a way of writing it in the first place that you can make sure of yourself. The tax rate underlines that it has not been determined as thoroughly as they tend to do. And then you read more in the back of the report, where it says that the following is not included: Adapting the system to the State Road Service – in terms of processes and interfaces. Mapping: Adjust the mapping system portfolio when transferring the document fee to the tax bill – it is not included. Insurance industry: Adjustments in insurance industry’s systems related to the introduction of a traffic insurance charge — not included. The new needs of the customs system are also not included in the project. That is why I am amazed that the government and the majority of the population are so confident that they will give that authority. When we look at these big, complicated computer systems already, for example. the Nav discussion that we had in the control committee before the winter, and how many pitfalls there are, I find it strange that only such a power is given, when it is so clear in the central management documents that it has been determined too quickly, and it is so clear in the management documents that not all parts of the costs have been explained. I hope I'm wrong here. I hope, of course, that there will be no cost excess, and that there will be control. But there are so many warning lights that light up, both in the case of transfers from municipal tax offices to government, and in the case of transfers to customs. So the sum of the warning lights that light up in this reform should have made us in the Stortingen say no to transfer the tasks from customs to tax, just as the Stortingen said no to transfer the tasks from municipal tax office to government tax office. Nevertheless, the money is in, but I hope and believe that the Christian People's Party and the Left dare to be clear in, so we let go of such centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e593	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e596	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e601	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, then took up the proposals behind it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e606	It might have been tempting to comment on some of the mountain politics that the representative had, but I can leave that. In the comments of the Centre Party on this matter, it is said, among other things. that the policies of the police, colleges, municipalities and counties, health and transport are a particular challenge for the country. Furthermore, the comments state that the proposed model of making corporate tax municipal has a ‘strongly centralising effect’. The last one seems a little illogical and strange, but perhaps Battle Violence Vedum can explain what this means. Is this how we often get the impression that the centre party is closest to any form of renewal in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e613	I am not concerned about mountain policy, but more about the mountain people's homeowners, who are now going to be charged with a new house tax, thanks to the Right and the poor community economy of the Progress Party. Right here in the main hall should also be worried that now it's 750 million. The tax on housing in Bergen is due to their policies. It was removed when the Senter Party had the municipal minister and is introduced when the Right has the municipal minister. We'll see what it's like next time we have the municipal minister, if it gets removed again. So to the question, we're worried about the totality of centralising measures. In the hospital, Bent Höie has warned that he believes that in half of the country’s local hospital emergency surgery should be removed. We're worried about what's going on in the police. We don't think there'll be a better police force in the West by bringing together, for example. Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane police districts. We believe that the challenges that lie in the Hordaland police district and further developed the Sogn and Fjordane police districts should also be addressed in order to keep me in the representative's home area. As regards the conversion of corporate tax, the comment is based on the answer I received from Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, who says that there are some and forty municipalities serving on it, and the rest of the country's municipalities are losing on that conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e622	The Central Party proposes to reduce the tariff-free quota and budget by 300 million. kr in increased revenue as a result. At the same time, we know that airports will disappear all over Norway the day the major airports in the Avinor system lose money as a result of the loss of tax-free revenues. It is also well known that the airports Torp and Rygge, which are outside the Avinor system, are completely dependent on their tax-free sales to get the operation to go around. The question is, how many billions is the Centre willing to spend on subsidising small airports around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e627	We in the Center Party are strong supporters of the system we have today with Avinor, which means that we've managed to get to an airport network all around the country. For large parts of Norway, small airports are their railways, because it is not possible to build in any other way. Therefore, the aerodromes are cross-support between Gardermoen and smaller locations. The change we're making on tax-free is a moderate change, because we don't want to have as large quotas as the government made up last year. We think it is an unwise policy – both health and alcohol policy – to have such large quotas, as we want a strong monopoly on wine that is present throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e635	I can't wait until the end: when we have a system where it seems like airports are literally going on booze to live on, there might be reason for someone and everyone to look at the system. But we do that in other contexts. The representative Battle Force Vedum was within the interface tax and customs. I think I agree that we have to look at the fact that the solution that is now being chosen seems appropriate for the user. I also understand that the Minister of Finance agrees. But let's not forget that some reason for this is to strengthen the Customs Central function as a border controller, and there they have a great job in the future too. So, centralisation and tax offices: The concern of the Battle of Vedum is based on the fact that the red-green government centralised some of the state tax offices, and that there was bad experience with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e644	There were three different elements here. I can start with the Wine Monopoly. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have a common model for aerodromes, that we want the Vinmonopole to take over that task. I think that's a wise and good solution, so that the revenue returns to the community. That's great. What we have expressed is that the model we are now proposing is that the Customs Service should not charge VAT on border crossings – they will do it for you and me if we have small imports, but for large business operators they should not do it, it will be subject to VAT. – may have some unfortunate effects, both in terms of collection and in terms of black economy. In the case of tax offices, there are always changes, but this is a major change in principle – excluding a level of administration a task. We believe that that level of government has done that task in a very good way, and it also shows the numbers. When we don't have any big reason to take them away from that problem, we don't see that you're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e653	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e656	Today, when we revise the state budget for 2015, we do so in a breakup period. The industry, which has been the foundation of the economy and state finances for many decades, has in a sense reached a saturation point. Although the petroleum industry will undoubtedly be an important industry for decades to come, it is conversion and cost-cutting that characterise everyday life. At macro level, it is not necessarily only negative, because the industry has been a driver of pushing up the Norwegian level of costs and is responsible for a very large proportion of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, it is very dramatic for those who are the victims of job closure, primarily for those who are told that the position will no longer exist, but also for those who face challenges when many jobs disappear at the same time. For the left hand side, the most important thing now is to make the switch through, as green, as soft and as efficient as possible. Thus, the main priorities of the agreement we have done with the government party are measures that stimulate the green shift and can contribute to green growth. We would like to get more, but there are important steps in the right direction. The agreement leads to a number of study places, strengthening the apprenticeship system, a separate pre-seed fund scheme, increasing the focus on nutrition research and climate research and strengthening the environmental technology system. In the 2015 government budget documents, governments wrote the following: «An oil price stabilising at a clearly lower level will impose high requirements on the ability to convert to Norwegian enterprises and workers.» Already in December last year, the Minister of Finance asked whether there would be the necessary measures to convert Norwegian business before the revised national budget, due to the sharp fall in the oil price that we saw. In that case, the Left was ready with a number of suggestions to contribute to this conversion. Today, at an early stage, the Left makes one of these proposals – a proposal for a new depreciation rule for energy efficiency measures for Norwegian petroleum industry. The proposal will both reduce oil spills in Norway and counteract the trend of job losses in the supply industry. There is an urgent response in many ways to re-maintain the socket. The knowledge and competence of the oil industry are crucial for Norway’s competitiveness in the future. The people who are now missing the job are among the most advanced and specialised technicians and engineers – from innovators. The proposal from the Left to pay for environmentally friendly measures on Norwegian soil will increase activity, increase number of jobs in industry, cut short-term Norwegian soil emissions, and drive technology development that can contribute to cleaner world-wide energy extraction in the long term. Oil industry has contributed to growth and well-being for many decades. Now we are in a new situation, where we can no longer expect oil revenues to continue to grow. Then offensive action is needed to secure jobs, skills and tax revenues. A big effort on a socket can put Norway in the driver's seat to reduce oil industry emissions and create new jobs on the purchase. It is a win-win proposal for both the industry and the environment, and we hope to have broad support from Stortinget when matters are to be dealt with in the autumn. On Tuesday, the Left will present a package of measures to create 50,000 new green jobs in Norway. New depreciation policy for an item is only one of 15 actions in such a package. Actions will be central to the Left's draft budget for 2016, and thus also to the negotiations to be held by the Left with the Government Party on the same budget. 2016 will be a decisive year to get to the green shift. Left is a guarantor that it will happen. I finally let myself, on the last day before we take a summer vacation from the meeting activity to Stortinget, draw up a slightly larger perspective. The next 15 years will be invested in new energy production, buildings and transport around the world for unimaginable 575,000 billion. kr. More than two billion people are to be lifted out of poverty. Cities shall be developed to accommodate approx. a billion more inhabitants. The world economy will grow by more than 50 pst. of only 15 years of age. The same 15 years will determine whether the world is reaching the two degree goal and limiting the temperature rise of the earth to two degrees. If we're going to make it, they're going to have to collect CO2 emissions from fossil energy – coal, oil and gas – not to exceed 565 billion. tonnes. This means that most of the known fossil energy reserves cannot be exploited. Overall, it is a huge challenge, but it also offers great opportunities for new growth, new value creation and a better everyday life for most people. It allows us to put people first. We must systematically and quickly realise the green shift and move from a fossil economy, where growth and prosperity are based on increasing use of oil, coal, gas and other non-renewable resources, to a green economy, where growth is based on renewable energy and smart household with scarce resources. The vision for the Left is that by 2030 Norway will lead in the global transition from fossil to green economy. Norway has every chance to make green choices for energy production, land use, food production and infrastructure investment or to demonstrate that this type of action also gives better lives for each individual person, as well as being profitable for the economy as a whole. Less use of coal and oil improves air quality. Better public transport means that less time has to be spent on cars. In developing countries, reduced subsidies for petrol and kerosene will release funds for health and education. Large investments in green technology can be just what is needed to create new growth, both in Norway and elsewhere in the world. Green transition is therefore no threat to future well-being. It gives us who are living today, a better life and a sure future for future generations of children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e698	The representative called it ‘very dramatic’ in his article for those who lose their job. What concerns me in particular, maybe, is the increasing youth unemployment you see. The figures are clear: 10,000 more young people without work only in the first quarter of 2015, youth unemployment at 9.4 p.m. The situation is particularly serious in the West, the warning lights are blinking. At the same time, one sees that this government has a waiting-and-see strategy. The main effort is tax cuts to the richest of the country. The dynamic effects are absent. So what I want to challenge the Left is whether they think the government is doing enough to counteract youth unemployment. Does the Left not agree that there is a need for concrete, targeted measures for conversion and not for further tax cuts without dynamic effect? It would have been interesting to know what the Left will give priority to in the budgets of the harvest. Can the representative here and now wait for a new tax cut until unemployment is on the way down again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e707	Thanks to the questioner for raising a very important issue. The left, together with the government party and the Christian People's Party, in the budgets we have made for the plurality, has really invested in things that lead to change, increase rate and new value creation. Tax incentives that make business owners rather invest in new jobs are a very important part. As far as the left is concerned, I can confirm here and now that we are going to be a driver in order to say that the tax and tax system also leads to both a green shift, less consumption that is harmful to the climate, and more investment that is good for Norwegian value creation and future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e712	The representative of Terje Breivik is concerned with local democracy, and he is concerned about the proximity of the population to the user. If we're going to believe what he's talking about, he is. In connection with RNB, we have now had discussions on the local tax collection. There's been a change in the law so far, but there's 120 million in it. kr to implement the amendment to the law that has been stopped. Will the representative of Breivik be clear and clear and ensure that this is not implemented when the Minister of Finance is going to try new rounds in this attempt at centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e717	In any case, violence against Vedum shall have a ‘creed’ to allow it to vary the same theme in its questions. The left is clear and clear, we said a clear no to this reform of the RNB agreements that we are now putting behind. And as Schlagsvold Vedum knows – he himself has read the comment: To the extent that we need to reconsider this, we need to put it into a completely different context. And even though we've now indirectly told the government that it's okay if the government comes back with this case again, it doesn't mean that we're going to change our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e724	That's good to hear. But then my follow-up question is, why do Christian People's Party and Left allow themselves to use their power in this hall to allocate 120 million? What about a reform they are opposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e730	I have great, great trust and expectation, when the government hears what has been said here today, that is, that there is money in a budget line that is not needed for the money to be used – I take it for granted. There is no big problem for Norwegian government finances that an actual allowance for money is made when the budget year is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e738	The global differences between people, both in income, in wealth and in opportunities, are unacceptable. They are not primarily sad or an expression of unfortunate coincidences or circumstances; they are the result of a misguided policy for which world leaders are responsible. The global differences are unacceptable. They deprive millions of people of the opportunity to create and live good lives. They deprive many countries of the possibility of building safe societies in the way we built our own in Norway. And these differences – the unacceptable differences – are made possible, maintained and reinforced by states that are declaring themselves out of international solidarity. The tax havens – there are thousands of billions of dollars to go to health, school, police and business development that are locked away in the accounts of a few rich owners, without transparency, without being taxed, without anyone making money giving anything back to the communities where the values come from. Just two weeks ago, it was not possible to reach an agreement in the Financial Committee on a definition of a tax haven at all, and the fact that it was so difficult to define what a tax haven is was used to argue that we could not withdraw the oil fund from tax havens. Just a few days ago, a proposal to ensure that Norwegian companies operating extractive activities in other countries had to report on their subsidiaries and their activities in tax havens was put down. Today, however, we agree that companies operating in tax havens must report on this through country-by-country reporting. We're strengthening the country-by-country regulations. I want to congratulate a Norwegian civil society that has pushed like that in the last few days to get this done. And I want to thank both the committee leader Hans Olav Syversen and the government parties for having been very negotiable and for the fact that a total increase can adopt these changes. It's amazing. It's a change of the kind that may not get so much attention in the media, but that has very big effects. It's not every day that we on the Biggest can make a decision and be sure that it actually leads to a more fairer world, completely materially. We do that today. I'm very proud of that, and I think everyone in the Big One is. Many of those who belong to the generation in the Young Right who had the slogan ‘Limits of Policy’ are the ones who govern the country today. The slogan is still used diligently, and I've thought in the past that the slogan is a purely ideological right-wing slogan. I have thought that these policy limits were about fewer laws and regulations, lower taxes and less governance. Once I've heard Jan Tore Sanner, Erna Solberg, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide or Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, or Vidar Helgesen for that matter, talk about these boundaries of politics at Young Right-Seminar, in school debates and in introductions, I've seen it as some kind of Progress Party light. But in the last year, we've been illustrated what the slogan 'Margins for politics' really means, and what it really means. It involves not doing anything about obvious problems and not grasping completely obvious opportunities. ‘No one knows for sure how many children are carrying the death mark on their foreheads in the ruins of the big cities and bombers — but there is no doubt a shocking number.’ That's what Johan Falkberget, a former big-time representative from my home country, said in his text "Be merciful" just after World War II. Now we're there again. We are witnesses to the greatest refugee disaster since then. Millions of people are fleeing in and around Syria. They need our help, and this could be the government's finest moment. Those who conspired the slogan "Humans, not billions" could have shown what it means in practice. Instead, they found the calculator and sent out half of the intelligentsia on the right-hand side of Norway to make arguments like Carl I. Hagen was alone about the last time it was about bringing some thousand refugees to Norway. Tens of thousands of people are out of work in Norway. Only 22,000 people in the oil industry alone have lost their jobs in the last year, because Norway is far too one-sided and for too many years has invested in even more oil addiction. Those who have warned against a sudden fall and serious consequences for those affected by the fall in the oil price have either been swept off as industrial enemies or as against jobs. But then it is striking that those who have been the most aggressive in pushing arguments about jobs ahead of them to invest even more in oil, do not turn out to be missing a mine here on Stortinget when the jobs are lost. In the spring, the government could have invested in new industrial investment in the West and helped to give the small extra push to trigger investment – but no. There are, I suppose, limits to politics. In our time, the government could have announced new renewable energy support schemes, based on technology development and the potential for industrial construction, rather than the market to manage alone, and that we are only expanding the cheapest first – but no. The policy that created the hydropower adventure in Norway, which created aluminium as the metal adventure in Norway, and which created the oil adventure in Norway, seems to have become too old-fashioned for the government. There are, I suppose, limits to politics. In the spring, the government could have said that an unemployment rate of up to 10 pst. Among our young people is totally unacceptable. We push thousands of young people into an adult life with more temporary work, uncertain job prospects and expensive housing. It doesn't seem like the government's going to do anything about it. They have set the limits of politics. We in the SV agree, to the extent possible, with the slogan «Limits for Policy». Well, we can connect to that. Not everything is to be governed by politics. We in SV could think of a Norway with less political governance and moralisation over single-parents, disabled people, women's wombs and your privacy on the Internet. But what the country's unemployed need now is not a limit to politics. The refugees who desperately look for the chance of a new life need are not limits to politics. They need proper policies. They need a policy that works, they need a policy that exists for the people who need it, policies that are not determined by the last focus group, opinion polling or mood wave in the media. That is why we propose in SV 1.1 billion. kr to green conversion and against unemployment. We propose to make it possible to receive 10,000 Syrian refugees to Norway in two years and a strong increase in humanitarian aid — with fresh funds and without hard-handed cuts in aid to the poor. We suggest room for better care and school in the municipalities, which provide more work, and which provides not least a better age and growth for those who need it. It should have got a majority today, and it could have got a majority today, because we can, and because others like us need it, and because they deserve it, because we can and should be merciful and solidarity, and then some other things better lie, like tax cuts and tax-free quotas. Let those with their eyes and later in the debate today put forward shell words such as ‘goodness posers’, ‘goodness industry’, ‘skillism’ and ‘naïve’, hide behind that sarcasm in order to hide that they themselves are incapable of prioritizing what is most important. From this point of view, SV is the party that has the highest priority in this year's budget audit. So we're the ones who set the limits that need to be set for politics. I want to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e773	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e778	On the wall of the Coffee Brenner, we can read about the modest beginning of the chain. Founds Thomas' job in the store every day from seven to seven, and in the evenings he baked tomorrow's food. Founding Steinar worked evenings and weekends, he was dependent on keeping his job in an IT company to make it go around. New jobs are created by that type of commitment and effort. When SV then increases the wealth tax and introduces new top taxes, people like Thomas and Steinar are punished. They don't get enough capital to get loans to invest in premises and machines, and the extra hours will never pay off. So after suffocating Norwegian entrepreneurs with such high taxes that it does not pay to do anything extra, tax the richnesses that invested in Norwegian jobs, and stop oil expansion à la Johan Sverdrup: How has SV planned to finance the Norwegian welfare state and the wave of older people in the future – without limits of policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e787	The founders of the Coffee Brewery and other companies may start their adventure from below with a huge fortune and a very high income, but that's not consistent with the founders I know, the founders I'm talking to. On the contrary, the main challenge in the Norwegian economy is that we have unilaterally chosen to invest the really big sums in oil. It has led to an unsustainable society in the climate, but it has also led to an unsustainable economic environment in which we have a huge need for investment in the mainland, precisely to create the jobs to which the representative Nordby Lunde refers. There is no wealth tax that prevents entrepreneurs in Norway from looking up, it is that the money has been over-incorporated into oil industry alone and pushed up the price level in all other industries. Then I can finally add that if the representative Nordby Lunde really cares about these entrepreneurs, next year she can vote in favour of SV's proposal for a lower corporate tax than the right-wing government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e796	Here in the East, trains are often a good alternative to aircraft, but this is not the case, for example, in North Norway and the West. The Socialist Left Party proposes to introduce an airline seat charge of NOK 100 per ticket from 1 September of this year and budgets a total of SEK 817 million. kr in tax revenue. The ticket price is likely to increase significantly because fewer passengers cause the cost per flight to be allocated to fewer heads. The question is short and good: is the aim of the proposal to hit District Norway hard, or is there only an unintended consequence of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e803	It is a bit special to hear the progress party first believe that a plastic bag fee that will take in 1 billion kroner. kr, is not going to make any difference in people's everyday lives at all, and then say that an airline seat fee of 800 million. kr means a lot more. But now it is such that SV's tax and tax arrangements must be seen in the context, and we believe that we need to move money from polluting consumption to environmentally friendly consumption. That's the one. We also believe that those who do the work in Norway, those who have the usual hard jobs, those who like to wear out their bodies after a hard professional life, will be left with more, and those who have the most will be left with less. For this reason, we propose that a normal employee in Norway should receive several thousand dollars in tax cuts, while the richest should receive significant tax incentives. Thus, we have room to introduce more green charges without affecting the wallet of most people. That is not the option of the Progress Party. They spend the big money and lubricate them beyond the richest elite in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e812	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e815	There are now daily reports of people losing their jobs in the oil industry. Local communities are concerned about the future. We stand, as almost all speakers have pointed out, in a breakup. The Greens are optimists. We are convinced that Norway has all the prerequisites to succeed in the green shift, which is increasingly talking about and calling for. But then we have to spend the money the right way. The government's response in the revised budget to the challenges we face is to increase oil money consumption by 5 billion in general. kr, to a high of 6.4 pst. of gross domestic product. Even in the middle of the financial crisis, we didn't spend that much money. This is a little forward-looking policy. And today I'm going to talk about the rule of action. For the 2001 action rule, it was a very good idea. It set a limit on how much oil money we politicians should let us be tempted to spend on the state budget every year, more specifically 4 pst. the value of the fund per year. So the goal was to avoid excessive dependence on oil money. The problem is that in 2001, nobody saw the fund grow as fast as it has. In a few years, the fund has grown to over 7 000 billion. kr, and as a result, the use of oil money in the State budget has been more than doubled from 2005 until now. It is therefore increasingly obvious that the rule of action no longer does what it should do, namely to ensure that we do not spend too much oil money. The Greens have long advocated less oil smeared consumption, and in our 2015 alternative state budget, we raised to spend 16 billion less oil crowns than the government parties. But it's not just the Green Party that thinks we're spending too much oil money. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance presented the report of the Thøgersen Committee on financial policy in an oil economy. This sample concludes that Norway has become more oil dependent — dependant on oil money — than has been seen in 2001, and the sample clearly states that the increasing use of oil money is not the solution to the problems in the oil industry. On the contrary, increasing the use of oil money will make it more difficult to succeed in the process of conversion, as it weakens the wages and competitiveness of the new business. The Green Party is therefore promoting today proposals to restore the rule of action to what it was supposed to do, namely to limit the use of oil money and to ensure a stable economic development and to use the oil money that we are taking into account for what they should be used for, namely a green transition. Firstly, rather than controlling the use of oil money according to the size of the oil fund, we believe that the limits should be set according to the overall size of the Norwegian economy. There is a much more relevant measure of oil dependence, and that is also in line with the analysis of the Thøgersen Committee. Secondly, the Storting has just stated that, for ethical reasons, the oil fund should not invest in coal companies that are destroying the climate on earth. And the majority of the Storting will go further. The Fund's environmental investments are increasing, and an expert group is now investigating the fund, inter alia: shall invest in wind power and solar cells. So luckily, progress is moving towards more and more support for the main points of the Greens: the oil fund must be actively used to invest in the green future that we say we want. Then it is also natural that we make similar demands on that part of the oil fund that is phased back into the Norwegian economy above the state budget. Of course, in the revised budget of the year we find good examples of green grips, such as biogas grant schemes, 20 million. kr more to the Eco-Technology Scheme, 25 mill. SEK for industrial research on renewable energy, etc. But the big picture is a revised state budget that sets new record in the use of oil money, and thus has not only few traces of a green shift, but that counteracts a green shift, because it maintains a general economy where general consumption is the main driving force, where oil is the main driving force, and where green priorities are not the most important. We therefore propose to upgrade the rule of action with a plan to facilitate the use of oil money for a green shift in Norway. I take this up with me the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e834	The representative of Rasmus Hansson has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e838	I am pleased with the agreement we have reached with the cooperation parties. We have found solutions that reflect important values for all four parties, and we agree on a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian business community. The sharp fall in oil prices since last summer has dampened the growth of the Norwegian economy. Growth is weaker than we've been used to, and there are signs of increasing unemployment. We see it in particular in petroleum-related businesses in the South and Western countries. Of course, increased unemployment creates insecurity for the families affected, but in other sectors and in several countries the situation is better and more optimistic than a year ago. In the budget last autumn we announced that the Norwegian economy is facing a shift. The fall in the oil price may mean that the need for conversion is accelerating. We don't have the opportunity to influence the price of oil, but we can do something to strengthen our own economy and our own competitiveness. It is important then that a responsible economic policy is pursued, an economic policy that prioritises the most important things first, where investments are made in future value creation, red tapes, reforms and transforms into a more productive andgrowthful economy. It helps to secure the financing of the future well-being of all of us. Earlier this year, we had an impact on changes in the Labour Environment Act that make the labour market more flexible. Now we're making the door into the working world higher and wider, and that makes sense in today's situation. In the revised budget, we also increase the number of action places and expand the permitting mechanism. If developments in the Norwegian economy and working life are weaker than we are now seeing, we will of course also consider more measures. We have behind us a golden period in the Norwegian economy. If we look forward to it, the drag help from the activity in the North Sea is likely to be weaker. The industry will continue to be important to us, but it will no longer contribute to bringing growth up. It is then essential that we provide new, secure jobs. Economic policy responds well to the challenges we face. The interest rate is set at a historically low level and contributes significantly to the dampening of the setback in the economy. The fall in the oil price has coincided with a weaker krone, and the weakening of the krone is the main contribution to improving the competitiveness of the enterprises that need to change. The moderation we've seen in this year's payroll is moving in the same direction. The 2015 budget contributes to domestic demand for goods and services in response to 1⁄2 pst. of the value creation of the mainland economy. With such a device, we contribute to growth in the Norwegian economy and to counteract unemployment without risking the krone price. The Workers' Party's draft revised budget represents approximately the same increase in the use of oil revenues from 2014 to 2015 as the government's proposals. The big difference is that the Workers' Party will spend everything on increased expenditure, while we provide relief in taxes and taxes. I've visited a lot of companies. Everyone points to better infrastructure as one of the most important measures. I still have the benefit of meeting a company that has asked for increased taxes and taxes, as the Workers' Party suggests. It means a lot when we cut taxes and taxes rather than increase taxes. It makes sense to invest in transport, not just to cut strings, but – for the first time in decades – to reduce the maintenance run on national roads. It is smart to invest in education and research so that businesses can grow and new industries can come into being. Only in this way can we generate greater income for well-being, safety, health and care in the future. I notice that the representative Marthinen from the Workers' Party called it a poor budget, which is poorly adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. But at the same time, I notice that both the IMF and the OECD say that this is a good budget adapted to the situation of the Norwegian economy. I have also recorded that in all the dialogue meetings the government has had with the social partners and with different parts of Norwegian business, the answer is exactly the same: Continue with what you are doing, continue to do more of what you are already doing, it is the best assumption we have to be able to cope with the demanding transition that Norwegian economy is now in, and that we long knew would come. I believe that this is a good contribution to getting through a more demanding situation than we have had in a while, but then there must be the willingness to convert, the will to streamline and the will to carry out major structural reforms – not just against all the changes in which this government is leading and delivering to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e857	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e860	We are now at the sixth crossroads since the government joined, where the government chooses to increase the use of oil money. It seems that the Minister of Finance has committed himself to a permanently higher gear in the phase-in of oil money into the Norwegian economy. Then the Thögersen Committee was set down by the Minister of Finance's government, and there are probably more of us who remember the Vice-President of the Progress Party Per Sandberg, who cheered when that sample was set down and could guarantee that it came to a conclusion that we could safely use more oil money than the rule of action suggests. Yesterday it delivered the sample, and after a longer investigation they found out that the sooner we spend money, the faster and more violent we have to tighten in. Is the Minister of Finance as surprised as his Vice-Chairman at that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e867	Let me first say we spend oil money, and we spend more oil money on the budget this year than we did last year. But it is a use of money that is well adapted to the needs of the Norwegian economy, not least because the government has turned money into more growth-promoting measures, which are undoubtedly one of the most important things we can do now. Then I am very happy to have received the report of the Thøgersen Committee. There is a sample I took the initiative to put down based on the major changes that have occurred since the action rule was introduced in 2001. This is a thick report, which I would also recommend to the representative Marthinsen to get thoroughly involved. These are good analyses, and the essential conclusions point far ahead in time. The Committee also stresses that fiscal policy is more important. It is also about the need for a government to have sufficient instruments to adapt fiscal policies to economic conditions, and that government intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e874	I can assure the Minister of Finance that the report will be thoroughly read. We are already doing that well, and I share the Minister of Finance's assessment that there is a lot of good material here and a lot of good estimates from the sample. We heard yesterday, when the sample presented the report, he who, at least until today, was the fiscal figure of the Progress Party, repeated the slogan from this fall that the important thing is not how much we spend on money, but what we spend on it. I think we all agree that it is important what we spend money on, and that the money should be spent sensibly. And then there's probably a little bit of different perceptions of what makes sense -- that's probably something from the background that we're different parties. But one of the things Thögersen himself stressed when this was presented yesterday was that increasing efficiency is not achieved by earmarking or by exempting individual areas from a comprehensive budgetary procedure. Does the Minister of Finance agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e881	I am very pleased that more and more people are taking part in the debate on the need for productivity growth in the Norwegian economy. That is also why this government set down a productivity commission – both to review the weaknesses that already exist, and to get some answers to what we can do to boost productivity growth. It's important. We also see that it is possible to use our money in both the transport sector, education and in large parts of the public sector in a much better way. But then we also have to be willing to set performance targets. I want to challenge the Workers' Party back on this, because what I find is a constant reluctance from the Workers' Party to participate in the efficiency of reforms. I think that's a very bad approach to the situation we're in right now. The first job we have is to make sure that we spend taxpayers' money in a sensible way, and that taxpayers get the most money back for the money we invest, whether it's in health care, care for the elderly, transportation or school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e888	To accuse the Workers' Party of not being reformative falls on its own unfairness. It is enough to refer back to the last period of government, where major reforms were carried out – in defence, not least, which is perhaps one of the best examples, several tens of billions, unpre-reform, pension reform. But we do not choose to vote in favour of reforms that we see as poorly prepared, and where we do not have good enough estimates of what this will actually lead to, not least on the cost side, and that has well been illustrated by previous line changes today. But I did not get an answer to the question I asked. I asked whether the Minister of Finance agrees with Mr Thøgersen's claim that we do not achieve greater efficiency by exempting individual areas from a comprehensive budgetary procedure. This has been refuted and much of the basis for the Economic Policy of the Progress Party and proposals for alternative action rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e895	I mean, I'm answering that. We have to be able to do multiple things at once. We have to make sure that the money we spend on the state budget is money that is well spent. That's why we have to set performance targets, we have to make sure that we get the most out of each crown we use for the different purposes, and we have to work systematically to achieve both efficiency improvements and reforms that make us do it. I mean, there's no contradiction here. What I notice, on the other hand, is that when the Workers' Party is faced with attacks for a lack of willingness to participate in efficiency reforms, they say that no, it's just because there are some reforms that are a bit poorly prepared. That's wrong. It's an honest thing to be against streamlining bureaucracy, it's an honest thing to be against using taxpayers' money in a more efficient way, but to hide behind a claim that it's because things are poorly prepared, doesn't hold. I believe that the Workers' Party will have to deal with the matter and be involved in making the Norwegian economy more efficient in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e902	On the basis of this exchange of lines, we can well conclude that the reform was well prepared. With three adjustments in the Storting by a new majority, there is probably some evidence that it was not so well prepared. So a rather complex question related to one of the issues we're dealing with in addition to the revised one, namely the question of Syria. I note that there are many in the Progress Party who believe that the agreement confirmed by the majority of the majority today by a decision is contrary to the cooperation agreement. This agreement is based on the fact that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, invited the Stortinget to discussions, and we have obtained a result. My question is therefore: does the Minister of Finance think that the negotiated agreement is contrary to the agreement of the government with the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e909	It is quite right, as Hans Olav Syversen says, about the misreform, that it was adopted and implemented by the previous government, and it was this government together with the cooperation parties that revealed that there was a need for significant transitional arrangements to make the reform better. I'm very happy that the four parties have cooperated well to get it done. Then it is that the government has provided revised budgets with a strengthening of funds for action in the neighbourhoods associated with Syria. The government has initially presented what the government believes to be right. Then I note that in the last few weeks there has been a debate in the Great Britain and between the big parties on this, culminating in a decision today. Of course, that's the government's decision. The question relating to the cooperation agreement I think I should answer as follows: if there is a need to discuss it between the four parties, we will do so in the appropriate forums where it should be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e918	Ordinary people in ordinary houses have never paid more property taxes on their housing than when Minister of Finance Siv Jensen from the Progress Party rules. Property taxes are introduced on record voyages – rates are increased and the income of Norwegian municipalities is increasing due to an increase in property taxes. They don't do this because they think it's so funny. The progress party in Skodje does not do so because they think it is a fantastic election campaign to introduce property taxes just before the elections, they do so because they have too bad a financial framework from the government in terms of their local economy. How is it for a progress party minister to ever be the minister who has managed to introduce so much property tax in such a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e924	Firstly, the government has continued to strengthen the local economy every year since we joined, and we will continue to do so in the future in recognising that municipalities are responsible for many important welfare tasks. Then it is that property tax is a municipal tax that it is up to each municipality whether they want to introduce or not. The progress party is opposed to property taxes and works systematically to avoid it being introduced into its municipalities, and has proved in many of the municipalities we are in position, that it is possible to household differently. I disagree that there is a need to increase property tax. I rather believe on the contrary that it is fully possible, based on the good local economy that exists, to be able to give a different priority, but it must be up to each municipality which choices they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e931	It was an interesting answer the Minister of Finance gave to the representative of the Battle of Vedum. If it is that the Minister of Finance is of the opinion that, for example: The municipality of Bergen has not had to introduce property taxes, it must mean that it is a completely free, conscious political choice that the municipality has made. Does Minister of Finance Siv Jensen think that the municipalities in which the Progress Party is in position or is in and forms a majority now impose property taxes because they have suddenly become in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e936	I think I almost have to repeat what I said in the previous answer: introducing property taxes in the municipalities is up to each municipality. We are now in Oslo, a municipality that abolished the property tax a long time ago, and has systematically managed to avoid reintroducing it. Then I find that red-green parties with the Workers' Party in the head are now going to campaign in Oslo to reintroduce a hated property tax without it being necessary. Oslo is the best proof that it is possible to house well with the local economy and give priority to important welfare tasks without imposing property taxes, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e946	There is not an exact figure – a size – that explains how a country and a people take the right international co-responsibility, how much money it is right to grant, or for example. the number of UN quota refugees to be received correctly. There is no norm we can consult to find the right answer to how we help people in need, people in flight, people who experience living conditions dramatically different from ours. Nor can we go to a look-up shop to find out if it is at all right and important to contribute, take responsibility, share responsibility and help other people in need. This boils down to a value issue of solidarity and co-responsibility, whether it is important, and whether we should care. That's where the policy makes sense. It is a political responsibility and a political opportunity to assess such issues as what we think is right, important and necessary, to weigh what we learn about the desperate situation in and around Syria, for example, and to promote proposals for action. The agreement reached on 10 June between parties representing a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is an expression of precisely this – a result of the possibility that democracy actually offers: the possibility of proposing decisions that both capture a great commitment among people, in the parties and in large parts of civil society, give the commitment direction and concrete expiry in decisions. The working party fully supports the result. At the beginning of 2016, Norway will double the financial support for the refugee and emergency work in the region, which will be channelled through experienced organisations inside and outside the UN system. With the Agreement on the reception of quota refugees from Syria, the number will increase in relation to the planned level for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. We are following up with increased support for settlement and integration in the municipalities, and the parties behind the agreement will deal with the government's announced package for settlement and integration into the treatment of the state budget for 2016. This agreement is a good compromise, all parties have had to give and take, and the negotiations were conducted in such a way that six parties take ownership of it. This is crucial. For the Workers' Party, it was important to get the government – the government that will carry out many of the specific tasks resulting from this agreement. We register the one government party – Progress Party – handling the matter. The party took part constructively in the negotiations but chose to withdraw. It's an honest thing. The right is behind the agreement, the Prime Minister is behind the agreement, and we're therefore assuming that the government will put it to work. The fact that it is to be done with active resistance from the government party The party's largest group tells its own about the crackdown in the practice of the government parties. It must be among the absolute rarity that today we see a party of governments proposing a referendum against the government's own policy. It is a debate on refugee policy; it is natural. However, it is also essential that there is a broad consensus on the policy we are making, and the decisions we are taking, as they are today on asylum policy. It is vital for the people who are coming to see that they are welcomed by the most united political leadership possible. And it's crucial for the municipalities that are going to live and integrate into the daily. The more we are gathered around the Storting, the more we can expect collections about local – the more we can hope for the involvement of civil society and volunteering, which is so important for successful integration. Over the last few weeks, we've been talking about Syrian refugees called 'thousands'. I understand that this can seem overwhelming to many, as about thousands from one day to another appear in a community in a small municipality. A student I met in Ålesund at a political meeting said it another way. She recalled that this is about each municipality receiving on average four, five families per year over two, three years, or one refugee per 1,500 people living in Norway. What happens then is that the individuals and families appear. We know that it will require some of us to succeed in implementing this agreement. But it's possible – and we can do it. Today's debate is also about the revised budget, and we have just heard the Minister of Finance defend a revision of a budget that we believe primarily tells a story about a government in deficit. Increasing unemployment and decline in employment have long been announced without this triggering the necessary government action. For a long time, both we and the social partners called for better law-making and more action areas. Last autumn we also proposed a package for growth across the country, with particular efforts for increased employment in key industries for Norway. Such an active industrial policy has been repeatedly rejected by the government, as it is in this revision. The answer has been that they follow closely the situation, but in the meantime the companies lose competence, and we have missed out on important opportunities. For the first time, unemployment has crept over 4 pst. For the young people, the numbers are even more serious, and the unemployment rate was measured to close to 10 pst. in the first quarter of this year. At that time, there is a need for stronger lye than the government has provided in the revised budget, and therefore we are promoting more proposals aimed at combating youth unemployment. It is all about everything from clearer priority in the Nav system, a more flexible day-care code, support for business-internal training, more public apprenticeships, etc. 30-40 pst. of these unemployed young people, have not completed/completed secondary education. We have to put in a force roof. The budget for 2016 is the First Own Budget of the Right-wing Party Government. We can agree on a lot in Norwegian policy, but this budget shows clear distinctions between position and opposition in view of what we should solve together, invest in together – and where we are best served to solve the problems individually. The government proposed tax cuts, where 50 pst. The relief would go to the 5 pst. Which has most from before, a recipe for moving the country towards increasing differences, although I noticed the Right fiscal spokesman thought it was the other way around, that this was going to lead to smaller differences in Norway — it was an interesting calculation. I believe that there is something fundamentally going on in Norway, namely that they have the strongest back to carry the heaviest should. In contrast to the government, we believe that the policy task is to round off the fact that Norway is a country with relatively small economic differences. It's an advantage to our country. And we believe that the government and the finance minister should respond to the message from, for example, the OECD, which recently provided four clear advices to counter increased differences: working for a more equal working life pursue an active policy for more and better jobs and jobs for an inclusive working life early work in school with particularly good follow-up in the first school years of the tax system must be redistributive We now know that great inequality should be combated not only for social reasons and because it is fair, but also because great economic differences damage economic growth and the ability to change. For Norway, such advice does not tend to be particularly controversial; it is based on the Norwegian model. But now, the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to do something about this, the one who said in the election campaign that she thought the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people, and we have a government that believes in the theory that tax cuts to the richest are going to grow above the rest of the economy, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance has once again confirmed that there is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax changes. The government's budget last year showed a bad priority of the freedom of action we have – the audit does not change that. Instead of tax cuts that don't work, we could choose a better municipal economy, a better hospital economy, more for investment in public transport in big cities, and a clear commitment to our strategic industries. That's this direction we invite the voters to vote to at the year's elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e998	This government, through its budgets, has invested in the development of road, rail and infrastructure. It has prioritised investment in knowledge and research, innovation and technology, and in particular it has prioritised reduced taxes on investing in Norwegian jobs from Norwegian owners. All of this is what is requested, has been requested and will continue to be requested by the Norwegian business community. More of the same is desired, for these are general framework conditions which allow businesses themselves to make the necessary adjustments in order to become more competitive. And I ask, what is it about these bets, which now go over time, that can justify the statement by the representative Gahr Støre that the government doesn't understand Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1005	Let me first say that with regard to the investment in infrastructure, roads, railways, research and school, we have budgets where we grant the same thing. We have a somewhat different view of the structure. We believe that this rail reform will not strengthen Norwegian rail. That's why we have a different device of it. What's a main theme here is a government that runs a policy where it uses as its biggest bet cut, there 50 pst. of the relief goes to the 50 pst. Richest. The representative Fleet believes it reduces differences in Norway and stimulates the economy. Both parts are very doubtful. That's not understanding Norway. It's giving the municipalities such a weak economy that the advisers all over the country are now kissing. To stand in the Storting and want more teachers, but to experience that school leaders resign teachers out there, is not to understand Norway in a good way. The fact that we have 40 to 50 municipalities that since the election increases the property tax out there is not to understand Norway. We all want the best for Norway, there is absolutely no doubt about it, but in the direction and use of freedom of action, the choice that does not trigger that potential, the creativity and the opportunities Norway has — with the scheme chosen by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1014	No one is better with good words than the representative Gahr Støre. We hear about values, responsibility, solidarity – very fine words, he should have. But at the same time he does calculations to tell people that the number of thousands of refugees that the Workers' Party wants to accept, really aren't that many, and I think that's a little strange. Either way, 8 000 refugees become 13 600 refugees with family reunification, and the SSB has estimated that it means 7 million. kr on average in lifetime costs. In total, it's $95.2 billion. kr. In Norway, where the oil price is halved, the unemployment rate is rising and the level of debt is increasing: from where does the representative Gahr Støre intend to pick up, concretely, 95.2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? Is it in the case of increased taxes or taxes, is it in the case of reduced welfare, or will not the representative Gahr Støre respond specifically to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1021	On my way into Stortinget today, I was given earplugs from the Advance Party that would be used to listen to me. Then I am glad that the representative does not use them and that he has listened to my words. And I thank you for the compliment, that he thinks they're well-chosen. Norway may take international responsibility. We have, throughout our history, taken people on the run. The refugees have been accepted by other countries. There was no one in Sweden who, when the Norwegians crossed the border, asked how much it would be in life-cycle costs, and who sat with the calculator and calculated it. We have a strict, fair and humane asylum policy. We have a refugee policy where we stand up for the UN, accept some refugees in need, some families per municipality. Some sports teams, some churches, some non-governmental organizations will set up and make it possible. These are people who can get into work, these are people who can use their abilities when they come to a country where there is no war and persecution. I'm not operating on the basis of what's right, what that life-cycle accounting is. Norway can do that. If we don't, we're going to have an insecure world, a dangerous world, and Norway is now taking part in a joint responsibility, with a broad majority in Stortinget, for which I am happy. And I'm sorry that the Progress Party is on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1030	There are several of us who from time to time choose to listen to what Gahr Støre has to say. I also heard the national meeting of the representative Gahr Støre, where he stated that the Workers' Party was to receive 10,000 refugees from Syria, divided over two years. I have also registered that there was a clear majority in Stortinget for the same time, but I record that the representative has managed to negotiate the starting point of the Workers' Party, which was 10,000 refugees, and now lands at 8 000. I guess when he gave his speech at the national meeting of the Workers' Party, he thought that 10,000 was the right number, uncertain where this figure comes from. So now you've landed at 8,000, now it's the right number. Can the representative Støre explain to the assembly why the correct figure is now 8 000 and not 10,000, as he promised at his own national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1036	In my post I said that there is no norm or reference work that gives that number. 5,000 over one year is one per 1,000 Nordics. It's a norm that the UN High Commissioner uses from time to time, that's one approach. That is what the Labour Party also suggested that Norway should be able to do. Policies shall be implemented. The Labour Party has never, in my lifetime, believed that a national meeting in the Labour Party will be held in Stortinget, at least not when we are not in government, and at least not when we do not have a majority. Then we go to Stortinget and say, "What can we do?" It's essential to get to something wide. It's vital to get something together. It's essential to get with the government. If you are a fugitive from your government, you do not flee to a country where the government is willing to accept refugees. That is why we engaged the government in negotiations. The Prime Minister followed up in a good way and said, "Let's have negotiations." The progress party was in the last day, and the figures that have been generated do not indicate that they were very far away. We have an agreement of 8 000 over three years, which is responsible, which is feasible and which serves Norway very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1045	We have the greatest man-made disaster in our time. That is why we proposed last year to help 5,000 more people to Norway. Then the Workers' Party was against it. This year we presented proposals for 10,000 more than two years. The Labour Party was in favour, and it was a majority for this. Nevertheless, the Labour Party chooses the majority of its own policies, goes to the Right and creates a majority for fewer, funded over in aid. The wide majority view is becoming more important than the need to do more. Then I have to ask if the representative Gahr Støre can explain why we have less opportunity now than in 1993, when we received 12,000. And: Does the Workers' Party mean that increased emergency aid really has to be paid with cut in aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1050	In this arrangement, which is now six games behind, there's fresh money for increased emergency aid, and there's been some re-priorities in a budget of over 30 billion. kr. 250 million. NOK has been moved in a way that I believe is completely sound. Comparing the early 1990s and 2015 is, of course, not possible. The fact that Norway is to take co-responsibility applies both times. This agreement of 8 000 over three years is – I repeat – responsible, and it is very good because it is owned by parties across the borders of Norwegian politics. The fact that the Right Party is involved, that they have been involved in developing and supporting this agreement, enables us to implement it. It is an agreement that will be well implemented by the government and supported by Stortinget. We were willing to agree to that agreement. Then I register that SV has chosen to stand outside the agreement. I do not feel that it helped to change the result, and I am sorry that SV is not now going to participate in the discussions on how to ensure a good integration arrangement in the municipalities, which is also part of the agreement, but which SV is not included in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1059	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1064	The civil war in Syria and the brutal mercenaries of ISIL have led to one of the greatest humanitarian crises since World War II. Millions of people are refugees or internally displaced, and large sections of the population depend on humanitarian support. In such a situation, Norway has a great responsibility to help alleviate the humanitarian situation of refugees and the population of Syria. On June 10, 1963, John F. Kennedy gave a speech to American University – on the day 52 years before we agreed on the refugee agreement – where he said: «we all live on this little planet. We breathe in the same air. We all want to protect the future of our children. And we are all mortals." Should the crisis ever hit us, as it has done in previous times, we would also be dependent on help. Let this be the curtain for how I take the debate further. Following the Prime Minister's statement in the Great Britain on the humanitarian crisis in Syria, there have been negotiations between all parties on the Stortinget on how Norway should strengthen its efforts to help people flee from war and terror in Syria. Even though two parties chose to stand outside of the broad consensus, I will give honor to everyone to want to join in and find a broad solution. The right starting point was always wanted to concentrate the effort, so that we could help as much as possible, as best we could. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has here pointed to assistance in the neighbourhoods as the most effective form of assistance. That is why I am pleased that the agreement has been negotiated by the Right with the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Environment Party. After the government had already increased the effort by 250 million. kr in the revised national budget – which we are now dealing with – we have, together with the conciliators, reinforced this by an additional 250 million. kr to a level in 2015 of SEK 1,25 billion. kr, raised to SEK 1,5 billion. kr in 2016. Examples of how this money, $1.5 billion. kr, can be used – in relation to appeals from the UN High Commissioner – is that we could, for example, Cover the shelter to 260 000, we could follow up to 30 pst. Of the health program and now 1.8 million people, we could cover 40 pst. of the education programme for 1.8 million children, or we could cover 60 pst. by the High Commissioner, in the case of water and sanitation for 10 million people. This is among Norway’s priorities. In an otherwise large aid budget, it was important to find room to give priority to what we now believe is the most important, and therefore there will be re-priorities. Our starting point for transfer refugees from Syria is the responsibility we have for people who come here as refugees. It's a big responsibility. They will have a fresh start in life, they will have a home, they will be integrated into society and work, and of course they will have the follow-up they need, with health or other welfare needs. The comparison with Bosnia and Kosovo is fading. In the 1990s, we did not have the term ‘integration’ in Norwegian policy; there was no integration policy. Now we have an ambition to do this in a good way, so these are people who get into work, who get education, and who become productive citizens of Norwegian society. Today, more than 5,000 people who have been granted asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis are in Norwegian reception. Despite the fact that more people live today than in previous years, the assessment of any new transfer refugees from Syria does not have to lead to those we have already given a stay being pushed further in the queue. So when we decide today to increase the reception of Syrian refugees, it is very important that Norwegian municipalities are encouraged to accept, settle and integrate those who are coming, and those who are already here. We are giving priority to this in the agreement with a total of 80 million. kr in addition to what the government has already proposed. When we started the negotiations, a majority could be set up to allow Norway to receive 10,000 refugees in 2015 and 2016. This was – and I would stress this – to the Right, a proposal that could never be accepted. That is why I am pleased that we have adopted a more moderate and realistic approach, that we are accepting 8 000 refugees over three years, and that we are going to evaluate this in 2017. Our proposal will be noted internationally. Norway is one of the most contributing countries before today’s decision. We're gonna be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1095	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1098	Many are disappointed with the Right in this matter. So am I. Many Right-Choosers are disappointed with the Right in this matter. I understand. Not least, I am disappointed with the representative of Greece, who invites the government's main opponents to waffle and coffee to discuss how to undermine the government's own policy. So my question to the representative of Greece is whether he can guarantee that in the future, the Right will not initiate new talks with the government's main opponents, so that you can ensure that you relate to the agreements that the government negotiated under strong pressure from all the four parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1103	I can assure the representative Tybring-Gjedde that the representative of Greece will follow up the appeals of the Prime Minister – the Head of Government – to find broad political settlements in the Stortinget. The fact that the Progress Party was involved in this, discussed it and contributed constructively, I have great respect for it, but that one in retrospect takes away from the Prime Minister's appeal for broad cooperation and saves the government for large billions of dollars, I have little sense of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1108	I hear the representative talking about appeals from the prime minister. It is that at Stortinget we relate to concluded agreements, and there is no doubt that an agreement was reached. At least in the big group of the Progress Party there was a big debate related to the asylum agreement between the four parties, and a bullet went hot, and I guess in the other parties too a bullet went hot. And then you see, because you get a number in euphoria at some national meetings, that you have to accept more asylum seekers to Norway – not to help them in need, but to Norway. Then there is an appeal from the Prime Minister, while we have an agreement. So you're not dealing with the deal, you're dealing with the prime minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1113	I think we should leave to others, for example. Party leader Siv Jensen, to interpret the agreement concluded between the four parties. I think I have more faith in the party leader's ability to interpret the agreement than I have with the representative Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1118	When I hear that tone in the conversation between the two government parties, I have to admit that I am almost more positive about the agreement that has been concluded. It's very special to be a witness to. However, I intend to ask the representative of Greece about the consequences of the great and important words he opened his speech with. Had Norway been in a similar situation as Syria — God forbid — we would also have been dependent on the help of other countries and people. Then I would like to ask the representative of Greece: why did 8 000 refugees over three years of age be put down and ensure that the increase in humanitarian aid was taken from other posts to go to people who need help? It's been a few days since Stortinget decided to raise 500 million kroner for the coal industry at Svalbard. Had it not been possible also to bring fresh money, and more money, to help more people in Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1126	Now I have heard more articles in the revised debate that are concerned about the use of oil money, which says that now we do not need to use any more. Then it was quite natural for us to do repriorities. Among other things, Jonas Gahr Støre said in the debate after Erna Solberg's statement that it was important now to be able to re-prioritize more to humanitarian aid. We've taken that seriously. We have done that, and we have provided a number that we believe is realistic, and that it is possible to implement, where Norwegian municipalities are also able to accept more refugees. Right does not want any unrealistic – I kept saying – national meeting decision-making policy. We want realistic policies that can be implemented, so we agreed on 8 000. It was a pity that both the Progress Party and the SV jumped off, but I believe that there is such a broad majority behind this now, that there are good opportunities for it to be implemented. It is also the parties that are behind this, which have the rapporteur in the vast majority of Norwegian municipalities, and therefore I believe that this is realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1131	The President would point out that the expression "God forbid" is on the list of unparliamentary expressions, so we keep to call on earthly powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1134	It's probably an exaggeration to say that the Right has been a driving force for us to respond more strongly and more in line with the needs of the greatest man-made disaster we've seen in our time. They've been dragged after their hair to get a little bit more involved. The representative argues that this might be realistic. I would like to ask if the representative is aware that Norway received 12,000 refugees from Bosnia in 1993 and that went well. In 1999, we received 6 000 from Kosovo, and then the representative Inge Wohnung from the Right had a fantastic post explaining why this must happen, that it is possible, and that there is only one party in this Chamber who believes it is about helping people there and not in both places. What is more difficult in Norway today than it was in 1993 or 1999, which means that we cannot accept more than 8 000 over three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1143	Firstly, this being dragged after the hair, it is possible that there is something SV has good experience with in government, but for our part it has to be clear that prioritizing the humanitarian aid to Syria has been something the government has been working on completely independent of both national meetings and other things. Norway is one of the most important contributors in helping out in the neighbourhoods. We have some highly skilled non-governmental organisations in Norway that contribute, and we have UNHCR that contributes, and Norway has been one of the absolute best. With regard to Bosnia and Kosovo, I said in my speech that yes, there were many from Bosnia and Kosovo then, and that was very nice, but we also discovered in retrospect that we are missing something called integration policy in this country. It came with the Bondevik II government, it came with the introduction program, it came with Norwegian training, it came with qualifying those who come as refugees – to actively work in the Norwegian community, in the Norwegian working life. That is why we could not accept 10,000 over two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1153	While I'm lowering the pulpit, I hope it'll be allowed to mention the Lord of Spring from the pulpit. At least it will be important for the Christian People's Party, and there I support Snorre Serigstad Valen. We now experience the most demanding refugee situation after the Second World War. Then I am pleased with the initiatives that came from the Storting, and the invitation from the Prime Minister that we, all the parties, could sit down and find solutions. There were eight parties that had good discussions, and there were six parties that could only have a good solution. I also see that the solution is well received. VG will post a comment on June 11th: ‘The load on Syria’s neighbouring country is high. In such a situation, Norway is opening up to take in several more quota refugees, as the United Nations urges, we believe that we are sensible policies.’ The evening post is on the tenure place on 12 June under the heading «A good deal about Syrian refugees». 'The majority of the population are fortunately willing to help. The broad agreement and the accession of the largest government party on the right make the agreement more realistic than it would otherwise have been. Both will benefit them, the Syrian refugees." On 11 June, the newspaper has a leader, entitled 'Accept the Needy', and they give a sense of commendation: ‘One crown may not be used twice and the choice to accept the refugees costs. When we have chosen the expensive option: to accept refugees here at home rather than to help more people in the neighbourhoods, it is essential that we accept those refugees who have special needs and not those who can best be helped in the neighbourhoods. We must therefore accept Palestinians, single mothers, deserters, sexual minorities and disabled people, who few in the neighbourhood are willing to take in. If we choose otherwise, the current decision will have been a wrong priority.’ I think it's an important signal the newspaper gives, and it gives the whole perspective for why it's important not just to help in the neighbourhoods, which we're a few about, but also to accept, because there are groupings that don't have protection in the vicinity. It's important with the groups that the newspaper mentions, I will also learn that many Christians do not actually experience security in the vicinity. The Christian People's Party uses its influence to ensure that Norway increases assistance and helps more refugees. This makes us consistent, both in the treatment of the state budget and now, with the agreement in the Grand Duchy of Syria on assistance. For 2015, it was worth 750 million. kr to help victims in the Syrian war in nearby areas. The new agreement at Stortinget means that this area aid is now increasing by 500 million. DKK to SEK 1.25 billion kr. Next year, he'll be raised to 1.5 billion. kr — double the level of the day. The refugee aid in the vicinity is the first line service. It is the most effective use of money and does not remove resource people needed to build the country after the war. When we also supplement humanitarian aid for shelter and food with a good school offer, we also increase their ability to rebuild a war-torn country. Some people and families have been particularly delayed. They must be protected in other countries and the reception capacity of several neighbouring countries is also at a break point. Therefore, I believe that this agreement that we have been given is very good. He gives help in the vicinity, and Norway takes a responsibility – a responsibility the United Nations has asked us to take – and we follow up. Following other countries in Europe in the same way as Norway does, the need requested by the United Nations in this matter will actually be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1182	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1185	It was interesting to hear the representative Hareide use VG, Dagbladet and Evening Post as a witness to the truth as to whether you conduct a good policy or not. It is not surprising where these Norwegian media stand. They always conclude roughly the same. With regard to the comment from Dagbladet that there is respect for choosing the most expensive way to help refugees, there is a strange conclusion when you can help millions for the same amount. But anyway, the cost of what the Christian People's Party went into is 95.2 billion. kr in a lifetime perspective – no matter how you turn it around and turn it around. And then it's interesting to know where the representative Hareide is going to pick up this money – I guess you can't ask our lord for help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1192	I chose to use the largest newspapers in Norway to show that I believe the agreement that is widely agreed in this room, also has broad agreement in the Norwegian people. That's because we're doing both, we're helping the neighborhoods, but we're also accepting in our own country. Why is that important? It's because there's some people who don't get the protection they need in the vicinity. I used the newspaper to reflect on it, because there are groups that are not safe in refugee camps in nearby areas. The paradox is that, among other things, sexual minorities, deserters, lone mothers, but also Christians experience insecurity in the vicinity. I think we have to assume that not everyone can be helped in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1199	That was interesting to hear. I was just wondering how the representative Hareide was going to find the gay and other minorities among the UN quota refugees, whether he was going to point this out and ask the UN to bring them to Norway. I have also not registered that the representative Hareide has had the same care for homofiles in general, but it is a completely different matter. He says to do both. It's not like the United Nations has not asked for more help. The UN is desperately in need of help – they need 35 billion. kr in help. It's not that you can't give everyone protection – you can if you get the resources you need. And then you can help a lot more. I understand that this is a marking case for the Christian People's Party, that it is a point in itself to pick up refugees to Norway, regardless of whether it helps less. The aim of the progress party is to help as much as possible and not to get the most out here. Is it the Christian People's Party's goal to help as much as possible – not for the least possible cost, but to help as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1210	The goal of the Christian People's Party is to help those who need it. Then it is important that we help in the vicinity, but also that we accept groupings that cannot be safe in the vicinity. The UN has asked us to do both. They have asked us to help in the vicinity, but also to accept quota refugees. To the question raised by Mr Tybring-Gjedde: Yes, we do a selection of our quota refugees. Then it's important that they are those with the special needs, those that can't be secured in the vicinity that we give priority to. This happens in an interview. We know that faith is one of the things that can create insecurity in this region. The situation of Christians in the Middle East is very much postponed. All we politicians got in the fall feedback from Christians in the Middle East who fear their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1220	The Christian People's Party and SV have been among the leading champions to help refugees in the refugee camps and those who need to get out of the refugee camps – as Hareide explained – but also for Norwegian aid to be kept up and not used for other things. Following the conciliation, organisations such as the Refugee Aid, Amnesty International and Norwegian People's Aid and Bishop Atle Sommerfeldt have expressed great disappointment that the majority that was to give more help was not used. It contributes to the Christian People's Party. The second thing they've been most startled about is that the assistance to the neighbourhoods is too small, and that the money is partly taken by cutting aid. How can the Christian People's Party agree to such a solution, when it was possible to get more refugees, more assistance and fresh money together with SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1229	I want to thank them for what they've been up to when it comes to building a real multiple this spring. I share what Karin Andersen says: SV and the Christian People's Party have been united in this area, and SV has contributed to what we see today. When there's criticism from some organizations that we don't do enough, I'm not surprised. It's an enormous need, an enormous commitment. Neither do I think we do enough, we should do even more. But what we were up to was doing more than what was originally there. It's a step in the right direction, but I think it's a common job for us to increase this also in the future. Then it is a challenge that when we accept refugees in our own country, we have under varying governments – both the red-green, Bondevik I and Bondevik II – carried some of the expenditure on the aid budget. It is a practice which both the SV and the Christian People's Party felt is unfortunate, but which both have had while we have seats in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1241	The refugee situation in Syria and surrounding countries is very serious. Large sections of the population are subsequently dependent on humanitarian aid. This is also why there is a great need both for receiving refugees from Syria and for increased assistance in the neighbourhoods. Too few countries have responded to the United Nations High Commissioner’s appeal to receive more refugees. This is why it is now important for several countries to provide clear and binding signals of their willingness to accept refugees, while also requiring resources to improve the situation in the neighbourhood. The centre party is pleased that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has gathered on measures for the next two and a half years, both at home and in the neighbourhood. This agreement requires Norway to step up assistance to the neighbourhoods to a total of 1.2 billion. kr in the current year and SEK 1,5 billion. kr in 2016. This means a significant increase in the assistance that is absolutely necessary. To achieve this, there is no concealment that the parties to the agreement have had to make redeployments within the budgets and also propose a full coverage of measures having budgetary implications in the current year. The centre party likes to admit that it's not always as simple, but we also see the need for this here to contribute to a broad majority on the Stortinget. The majority provide clear guidance on how assistance to the neighbourhoods should be used. We need to increase support for Norwegian humanitarian organisations, for UN organisations, for health care, for organisations operating inside Syria and providing emergency assistance, as well as for assistance to neighbouring countries, to meet the basic needs of refugees in terms of food, water and shelter needs. There is no contradiction between providing more assistance to the neighbourhoods and receiving more refugees to Norway. We believe what will now be reported to the UN High Commissioner, that Norway will accept 8 000 refugees over the next three years, is a good and agreed solution. For the Centre Party, it has been important to come up with a coherent solution. The reason why it is seaworthy to ensure a good and effective implementation of what we have now agreed on. The fact that the right party is part of the deal, and that the government is behind the deal, in our opinion, will be a guarantee for implementation over the next two years. When a long-term race is now being set for the reception of refugees from Syria, it is natural that what has been agreed is also evaluated in 2017. Adjustments may then be based on the level of both reception and residence in the municipalities. Norwegian municipalities have been positive about resettlement. With different reservations, well over 140 municipalities agree to receive several refugees. That's very good. It is important that municipalities are able to receive more, and that it is done in a tidy way. The centre party thinks it is good that extra money is put on the table in the current year as an extra subsidy to the municipalities, and that the House Bank's framework for rental housing is increased. But the most important job towards municipalities is at the point of the agreement that the government in the state budget for 2016 will return with additional resources to the municipalities to stimulate the settlement work. It could be 100 pst. in integration grants, it may be resources for the construction of multiple dwellings, and it may be that the government assesses the KS’s proposals for schemes that promote municipalities that contribute to increased housing. The KS proposal that each municipality receiving more refugees than they are requested from IMDI should receive an additional grant is a good proposal. Increased reception of refugees will also make greater demands on an efficient reception apparatus, to ensure that there is less paperwork and better integration. There are many large and small measures that can make reception more flexible than today, and integration work can also be improved. This may include, inter alia: improve by also mobilising refugee guides to new arrivals in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Norway cannot do everything, but Norway can do a little. If many countries do something, it will mean a lot to the difficult situation we see in Syria and surrounding countries. It is not possible to sit quietly and look at what is now happening in Syria, so the Centre Party is pleased with the agreement we are dealing with today. It is a citizen of the implementation and commitment of the breadth of parties on the Stortinget, and that is good, and it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1268	Half an hour ago, the representative, Slagsvold Vedum, stood on the pulpit and complained about the local economy and said that there was a deficit, some 2.8 billion. DKK this year and a total of 5 billion. NOK 2 in 2 years. And I guess it's not like the Center Party is back for any of the other parties to spend money on the state budget. They are happy in welfare schemes, those that everyone else in this room. No matter how you turn it around – as I have also asked the other representatives – it will cost 95.2 billion. In the course of a lifetime perspective, DKK 13 600 acid should be allocated to Norway, including family reunification, which is 0.7 per acid. You do cost calculations for absolutely everything else in this house, for everything from student space in school, hospital space and hospital space to everything else you need. What is the reason for not conducting cost analyses, social analyses or impact assessments, but thinking about a number, and then defending that number for everything it's worth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1275	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde is right in one thing: this is going to demand the follow-up to the municipalities. It is therefore so important that the agreement also states that the government has an obligation to return to the state budget for 2016 with measures that encourage municipalities and that ensure that municipalities are able to do so in a good way. It's going to require resources, there's no doubt about it. The centre party has high expectations that the government, not least the state councils present today, will take the task of taking the greatest seriousness and spending time until the state budget is presented both to review which measures are most appropriate to enable municipalities to receive more refugees, and also to address cost issues. The centre party has great expectations of that, and we think it is absolutely necessary for this to succeed in the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1280	In any case, these resources are to be picked up somewhere, and it is unlikely that the government – no matter how much it spins and turns on its money – will raise billions of money needed to get what the representative Arnstad now wants. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum complained that property taxes were constantly being imposed in different municipalities and owed it to the Progress Party for it to take place. Perhaps it would have been an idea to look at its own policy and see the consequences of its own immigration policy and, above all, this proposal, which is completely irresponsible both economically and culturally. So the question back to Arnstad's representative is, where should the money be taken from?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1287	I will not in any way advance what the government's assessment will be about how they will cover it for 2016-2017. The agreement indicates an invasion for the current year, but it is up to the government to make a sustainable arrangement that ensures the municipalities adequate resources for the next two years. I have full confidence that the government will do that job, and I also expect it to do that. I don't want to pre-shoot it. I might mention, a little bit of a passerby, that there's 120 million. kr remain in this tax centralisation that the government has almost canceled. There's a lot of money that you can bring in next year, but the job of creating the budget is the government. The agreement obliges them to return with a budget line to meet the needs of municipalities in 2016-2017 for the integration and reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1294	The centre party has been very generous in recognising that Norway has to do more when we face the greatest man-made disaster after the Second World War. But I'm kind of in the mood when the representative Arnstad says that the main reason for not participating in the majority that could have done more, but to participate in a majority that has done less, is that you want a coherent solution with the government. It is with shame that we are not telling the truth, because one government party, which is going to both pick up the movements and is responsible for the integration, is today promoting proposals for a referendum on the agreement. So how can the Central Party be confident that the government will implement this and not what it really was majority for in the Storting, which is 10,000 more?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1300	I think sometimes SV underestimates that the different decisions made by the parties, either at the national meetings or in their central governments, are slightly different. They don't all look exactly like the SV's decision made. The central government decision of the centre party has a few conditions attached to it, which we have also included in the negotiations. One is that we have said that we want a run of 2-3 years. Therefore, we are pleased with the agreement that is now in place and that concerns 2015-2017. The second is that it is explicitly stated in our decision that we want a coherent solution. We've got that, and we're happy about that. The reason why we want a coherent solution is that it is necessary to ensure effective implementation of the agreement that we are having today. This is not an area that is suitable for being pushed through in the Great Britain by one or two votes, and then to get a political vibe about the follow-up of it, and then doubt whether it really is like this when the government stands and welcomes the refugees when they come to Norway. This is a question that is suitable for a common solution, and the Center Party is very happy that we get it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1307	The problem is that there is no unifying solution. One of the government parties to implement this proposal proposes a referendum on the solution. So there is no cumulative solution, and SV's decision is also to accept over two years. SV was in the negotiations for quite a long time, because we wanted to have the widest possible majority, of course, but where the refugees were concerned, and not least the provision of sufficient assistance in the neighbourhoods, which was not financed by the aid budget, which was more important than satisfying, for example, the situation. Party of progress or right. Why does the Central Party not believe that these are the reasons that must be most important when faced with a day - to - day disaster that escalates and that we have not seen the husband in our time? Are there, then, domestic policy, Norwegian considerations that are most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1314	I'm going to be the first one to admit that it's a shame that it's such a split Progress Party, and that one in a way has one Progress Party to deal with in government and another Progress Party to deal with in the Storting. But the Central Party has full confidence that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government will take responsibility for following up this agreement and the settlement we are making today. I think it's a certain seriousness that there should be a proper implementation of such an agreement. It's important for those refugees who come here, that one receives them in such a way that it's positive. It is also important to the municipalities to settle them that they have a good and effective implementation. It gets the best when there's a wide deal in Stortinget. I believe, despite the fact that SV saw need to leave the negotiations, and that the Progress Party did not agree, that today we have a broad and well-thought-out settlement in Stortinget, and I think that this is a good promise for the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1324	The civil war in Syria has now been going on for over four years, and the UN estimates in January this year that 220,000 people have been killed so far. There is nothing to suggest that it is possible to find a policy solution in the short term. On the contrary, we have a situation in which the Islamic State, or ISIL, has developed with its extreme extremism and controls large areas today in Syria and Iraq. War crimes, crimes against human rights and widespread violations of human rights mark the war in Syria and also in Iraq. The civilian population is hit hard. 11.6 million acids are on the run, 4 million have fled the country, while 7.6 million are displaced internally in Syria. To put our own debate in perspective, it is important to remember that Syria's neighbouring country, Jordan, has received 2.7 million refugees, Turkey 1.7 million and Lebanon 1.6 million refugees. It is right that refugees should be helped primarily in their neighbourhoods, and this is where Norway also assists financially. It is important for the Left that, in connection with this proposal and this consensus, we have a strengthening of Norwegian efforts in the neighbourhoods, and that the quota refugees to Norway are also seen as part of an overall effort, where Norway takes a much greater responsibility than what we are doing today. We are pleased that the support in the neighbourhoods of next year will be up to 1.5 billion. kr. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has asked the world community to accept 130 000 Syrian quota refugees in the period from 2013 to 2016. Even with extraordinary efforts, the vast majority of refugees will remain in the neighbourhoods. It is therefore not about helping in the neighbourhoods or at home – we have to do both. Even if we help someone get here, millions still need our help out there. To date, some 30 countries have committed themselves to receiving less than 90 000 quota refugees. The UN High Commissioner now needs to settle a further 40,000 if the objective is to be achieved. We need to look at Norway's extra efforts to accept 8 000 refugees as a joint effort that many are behind and a joint effort to respond to what is needed by the High Commissioner of the United Nations. In the left, we are pleased that a decision from our own national meeting to receive more quota refugees, together with decisions at other national meetings, has helped to create a dynamic that has led us to reach a broad consensus in a few months on a significantly stronger effort in the Middle East, but also to bring in 8 000 refugees to Norway. It is important here that we also include in the agreement that we should have an evaluation. We are going to have an evaluation in 2017, and there must be an evaluation where one looks at how much effort we can make, also based on the situation we are facing in the Middle East, an evaluation that can achieve a result that can go both ways. The number of refugees is now the highest since World War II. A large part of this is refugees from Iraq and Syria. 59.5 million people were fleeing at the beginning of 2015. 21.3 million have fled across a border. The number of refugees is the highest since World War II, and although the dramatic increase is primarily due to conflicts in Syria and Iraq, there are also many other areas of crisis in the world. It is therefore important for the Left that how many quota refugees we will receive in 2016, in addition to those we welcome from Syria, will be an important part of the budget debate we are going to have in the harvest. Because even though we are now making an extraordinary effort, we also need to remember to have reception from other parts of the world where you have crises. So finally, we have to take seriously the challenges of settlement in the municipalities. Therefore, the agreement also provides for a strengthening of efforts against municipalities. From our side, it's important that we now help, not only those who come here, but also many in the neighbourhoods. We have to do both. It is necessary, it is important – and it is even right.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1344	I record that the Left – like the Workers' Party, which I took a reply to earlier today – has a country meeting decision that you want to receive 10,000 over two years, but that you have landed in 8,000 over three years. So despite a majority, you've negotiated. It's interesting to register, and here I think SV has some good points, but now leave that ball. The left is a party that is traditionally very concerned about listening to local democracy. I have great respect for that. If this is the case — and one refers to the evaluation to be made of the agreement concluded by the Left — then Norwegian municipalities, after what is reported by, among others, the Norwegian authorities. failing tax revenue, etc., cannot accept the number contained in this agreement, is the Left willing to enter for a lower number?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1351	First of all, I think that the people who have been to the meeting of the Left should be proud of the dynamic that you were involved in. Here we've had a spring where we've had a reinforced effort with the number of quota refugees we're going to pick up in Norway, and a reinforced response to the Middle East crisis. Then it's right that we have to follow up on the municipalities when they're about to receive more quota refugees. But I have to say that I think many municipalities have stood up in view of the skill you have been asked to enter, and you are willing to receive more refugees. What will be an evaluation must be primarily about needs in view of the situation in the Middle East and what we can contribute. Then, of course, we need to assist Norwegian municipalities to a greater extent, if it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1356	The left's post now is well what comes closest to a correct description of this serious situation, and as we've heard from someone here today. Then, of course, the disappointment of having negotiated away the majority that was, in order to follow stronger up the representative that Elvestuen now describes. 500 more quota refugees this year are not exactly a big and fast response to the most serious situation we have seen in our lifetime — or a little increase in assistance in the neighbourhoods, partly financed by cuts, among others. for assistance, to other areas in need of assistance. Then the question is to the Left: was there consideration for the cooperation agreement that made the Left choose to enter into this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1363	What's important is that this is an overall agreement that deals with a significant strengthening towards the Middle East, i.e., 1.25 billion. kr in the year – and half a billion next year. So we have to evaluate whether we're going to change this. It's a reinforced effort considering how many we pick up to Norway. The most important thing is to report to the UN High Commissioner that we should receive 8 000 refugees to Norway. But we also need to remember that the left has negotiated the number that applies this year – and has done so in the past. Finally, what's important is that you have a width of a deal. I believe it is important that we have with parties from the government, the one who makes the budget to the ordinary – and now also outside the budget. Just this width makes you have a strength in effort, and you have a certainty that this will be able to continue for a long time. And that's the point: this is an acute crisis, but there's also every reason to expect it to last over time. Our strengthened efforts must also last over time. This agreement provides for stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1370	I do not think this was a convincing answer to why you choose to go away from what you really mean – to negotiate. It is probably right that the Left in negotiations with the Government has negotiated this in budgetary agreements, but this agreement has thus negotiated down a large majority that agreed with what was the starting point of the Left, and that in an area that is the most serious we are facing today. Every human being we can help, whether it's in the neighbourhoods or by taking them out of a situation where they can't be given protection in the neighbourhoods, will count. So it doesn't seem convincing to me that the Left, in one of its heart matters, will negotiate away what they really mean – to something that's worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1376	This civil war has now lasted four years. If we look back two years in time, when it was also a crisis, and look at the number of quota refugees that Norway accepted, it was a little over 1,000. Now we've had a significant increase over the two years when we've had a new majority. Here we have a further reinforcement, with 8 000 coming in, while strengthening efforts into the Middle East to a significant extent, and we also have measures against Norwegian municipalities. There is no doubt that the Norwegian effort after the position of the Left on the Stortinget, which has been greatly influenced, has been significantly reinforced. Now we have a broad consensus that makes a starting point, and we have a long-term, wide bet from the Norwegian side. We're going to take our share of responsibility in the Middle East, where quota refugees to Norway are a central part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1381	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1384	Solidarity is a key word for the Greens' political work – solidarity with all life on earth, with the future and with people in need. The measure of this solidarity must be the need. We can't just assess what's convenient, until we evaluate how much we want to help. First of all, we have to ask ourselves what is needed, and when the disaster is great, then we have to help more. It's actually a matter of course for all of us – in the family, in the community it's like that, and in Norway and in the world it should be like that. The question boils down to how much heart space we can mobilise when the disaster and the desperate people are far away, and budget lines, local economy, housing and polling are close. The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens At the national meeting of the year, we confirmed this with a decision. And I'm really not particularly proud of this, because it's very easy to point out that we should go in for twice as many, or four times as many. It's very easy to point out that we should have done it much faster, because the disaster in Syria is more than big enough to justify a lot of help, and we're all stuck in our domestic everyday reality and our balances. However, the Green Party was at least early in setting a higher standard for what Norway should initially contribute to alleviating human distress in Syria. So that's why we went into negotiations with the SV, the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – to contribute to an increased effort for Syrian refugees outside and at home. When we sat down at the same negotiating table as the Right and the Advance Party, we made a choice. We didn't imagine for a moment that we would bring the government parties to our primary position, but we thought it was important to get a political consensus, including the government, on a solution. Because when all the municipalities of the country, a large number of people and organisations and government are to be mobilised to receive and help many more refugees, it is important that we do so on a safe and lasting political basis. When my mother was 12 years old, she had to flee – with her family, at night, through the forest across the border with Sweden. There she was well received. But she can also tell us what it was like for someone in Sweden not to welcome her, not to understand the fight against Nazism, not to want to help. She was afraid, she had to take care of what she said. Syrian refugees who come to Norway have more than enough to struggle with if they are not going to come to a country where they feel unsure if they are welcome. That is why the Green Party did what we could to reach an agreement on the greatest possible increase in the number of Syrian refugees to Norway and the greatest possible increase in efforts in Syria. We believe that we contributed to it, and when we had agreed to negotiate an agreement, we also thought it was neat to take responsibility for the result. We certainly do not think that the result is good enough. We find it very problematic that parts of the funds for Syria are taken from important posts in the aid budget, and this is what we are going to do every day to improve. But we believe that the result is much better for the people that this actually applies, than it would be because the Greens sat on the fence and waved with their primary positions. Today, SV is promoting a proposal to receive 10,000 Syrian refugees over two years of age. This is more or less identical to the primary position of the Green Party, and we have the greatest sympathy for it. But we are still voting against SV's proposal, because we are part of the majority proposal. This is one of the somewhat insidious techniques of the party system in Stortinget, but we feel committed to the unity of which we are part and which we therefore vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1408	The representative Hansson has now described what he has agreed on, that it is not good enough, that more should have been done, and that efforts should have been increased both in terms of receiving more refugees, which is needed, and also in terms of increasing efforts in the neighbourhood. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. So I realize that it's with a little bit of a hard heart The Greens have been involved in this, and it was also quite incomprehensible to SV that they were, because they were not dependent on forming a majority for this, but on the contrary they were involved in a majority for what was much closer to the Environmental Party of the Greens and the SV's policy. Now that I hear the explanation that this will be a safe and lasting settlement, I understand even less, because here you have the Right, which really would not and the Progress Party, which today promotes proposals for a referendum on the result. How can this be described as safe and lasting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1415	This can well be described as just as safe and lasting as any political decision in Norway. We don't get better than parties saying they agree on something over time. SV has an unusually long experience in making political compromises and decisions that, firstly, they do not seem to be good enough, and, secondly, it is well known that it can be weathered in policy's weather and wind over time. But that's how far you get, and that's what you have, and the alternative is, as far as I understand, everyone's on their feet and little is happening. The Green Party fully agrees with Karin Andersen's description that this will not necessarily last forever. But our approach to that, of course, is that we should improve it, not that it should go into disintegration, and we look forward to working with, for example, In order to increase the number of Syrian refugees to be accepted in Norway and to further increase the funds to be used in Syria in relation to what we have now received. So this is for us a stoppage in a longer political project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1422	The consensus that is here now might as well go into solution at the next crossroads as being reinforced, sail if the needs may increase. If everyone had stood on their own in this matter, there would have been a majority for another solution. It's quite another thing to form a majority for something where one depends on the party's votes to make something better. This was not the case for the Green Party in this case. It is absolutely right that it is sometimes difficult for governments to implement things – especially when they do not want to. It would have been, regardless of whether this agreement was based on it or whether it had been the agreement for which there was a majority in this House, namely to accept 10,000 over two years and strengthen efforts in the neighbourhoods even more. That is because the Right would not in the first place, and because even today the Progress Party is promoting proposals for a referendum. I don't think it sounds like the representative Rasmus Hansson is taking over the huge gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1427	The representative Karin Andersen describes the dilemma in this matter. The only thing that surprises me is that SV also put in these negotiations almost to the end, where there can be no particular doubt that the prerequisites were exactly what has been achieved, namely that one should try to get the government parties on an agreement. One might think that it was a stupid strategy, I think it was sensible and successful. Then SV himself will find out what was the reason they put in a negotiation that had this as its purpose, and afterwards believe that it was not a trick.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1432	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1435	The apostles of goodness. Dugnad has been called – done, a great Norwegian word. In 2004, Norway’s national word was referred to: almost inviolable, a joint and usually unpaid and voluntary work of Community importance. Who can be against something so beautiful and self-sacrifice? But what is the majority actually doing in this case? I don't see any signs of volunteering, I don't see any effort for the community. I see a proposal completely without personal consistency for those who are going to adopt it. I see futility with the money of others, but no personal burdens or consequences. I see a large number of people who keep their allowances and pensions. I see no willingness to reduce my own consumption and public welfare to give to others — rather the opposite. I see a cross-political bulking that everyone wants more for everyone, domestic as abroad. I see a large number of people who, to little or no extent, will experience or experience the consequences of their own work. I see politicians living in neighborhoods almost naked to refugees and immigrants. I see politicians who have their children placed in schools where refugees and immigrants are a rarity. Often, those who have the least contact with refugees in private are those who are the most rusty in the public space. I see a great majority who in moral indignantly stand up to judgment over hearty egoists like me, people who in the world's richest country dare to talk about economic and cultural sustainability. I see a large number of people who are caught up in peasantry by the euphoric enthusiasm of national meetings, and who, without social analysis or cost calculations, started a national effort of goodness. I see a Medie-Norway playing with, a Medie-Norway that unanimously supports up during the dungeon, and which seems to be a brilliant idea. The consensus is total, everyone's inside. The media diversity, which should be an instrument for different opinions, is set on autopilot, for the same opinion is repeated multiple times, until the alternative opinion disappears or turns into a web role. I see a united Organisation Norway dominated by former politicians – on the left, of course. Common to all of them is that they are financed by taxpayers. These organizations are all rusty followers of fetching Syrian refugees to Norway, and they smell of hearty people like me. There is no government going down on a matter that is about helping people in distress, it sounded from the highest level. It's a derailment manoeuvre. Very familiar there is no one in this room who does not want to help people in need, neither in Norway, Syria or anywhere else in the world. Politically, this matter is about how ungrasy and openly one can break concluded agreements, and then almost point his nose at the party that adhered to the agreement. The facts are about a majority who want to help 13,600 people in need of Norway, and a minority who want to help 1 million people in need, in the neighbourhoods of those in need. The lifetime cost of the majority service is estimated by the SSB at 7 million. kr per refugee, or 95,2 br. Total kr. Figures from the SSB, published yesterday, show that the employment rate of acids in Norway is 26.4 p.m., the lowest of all 136 countries in the statistics. BRITAIN: BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BRITAIN: 95.2 BR. kr is such an incredible amount of money that we could have helped all the world's 60 million refugees if the aid was given in the vicinity of refugees. Instead, you choose to pick up 13,600 refugees for our little welfare paradise. The majority doesn't show where to pick up the 35 billion. kr. They do not mention which welfare services are to be cut or which taxes are to be increased. Asylum and immigration policy does not address such questions. The money shall be provided as in the case of a magic wand. The goal was never to help as much as possible, the number was the goal: 10,000. You might as well have said 20,000 or 50,000 without any social analysis or cost calculations. You don't use a calculator for goodness. The mantra was that they have to do both parts, an argument completely empty of content, an argument that is only valid if there is no longer a need or impracticability to help in the neighbourhoods. But it is. The need is enormous. The debate on providing help and creating dignity for refugees raised a question of immigration – a yes or no to increased immigration to Norway, but no more than 10,000. There must be limits to the spirit of virtue. In Ibsen's A People's Enemy, Dr. Stockmann takes a settlement with the majority rule or the "fucking compact, liberal majority", as he puts it. He chooses to hold on and fight for the truth and concludes that the strongest man in the world, he is the one who stands most alone. In this case, the Advance Party chooses to stand alone, knowing that we have reason, time and people on our side. The majority know that too, so they refuse to ask the people for advice for different reasons. I include this proposal in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1461	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1465	When we face the greatest humanitarian disaster we have had in modern times, it is not, in fact, the Progress Party that is the largest victim in the world. Goodness is never wrong, and we have a duty to help. Nine out of ten refugees exist in developing countries. They haven't come to rich land. Every day thousands of refugees come to Syria, to Turkey, to Jordan, to Iraq, who are in civil war, and to Lebanon – small Lebanon, which is as large as my home country and has 4 million inhabitants, and where there are now 1.2 million refugees. It is correct and important that Norway increases its contributions. Only 2 pst. by the refugees are currently being offered resettlement. It's not about helping here or helping there. We have to do both. Of course, we should do the most to help minimise the humanitarian disaster in the refugee camps and neighbourhoods. It's about food, medicine, water, clothes and roof over your head. However, many of the refugees are extremely vulnerable and therefore have to leave the crowded refugee camps as quickly as possible. Others are politically persecuted, and their security cannot be ensured in the camps, because there is no security there. They pose a risk to both marine life and those who are close by. It's not advisable to help them there. We have to help them here, and that's what this is all about. SV was in the negotiations for a long time, because we saw that there was a broad majority here to help more people quickly and increase aid in the neighbourhoods. We were very pleased about that, not because it's a sacred number or necessarily enough, but it was the Norwegian aid organizations who asked us to do it. We followed the call we received from the aid organisations, and I think several other parties did. We were in for a long time, just because we wanted to get to a broad majority. But when the agreement meant that what was going to be emergency emergency aid turned out to be only 500 more this year, I would remind you that there is an explosive increase in needs. Yes, it is true that there was a crisis several years ago, even more should be done then, but the number of refugees is increasing dramatically every single day, and the agreement actually involves no more than 2,000 refugees in total to Norway this year and 3,000 to next year. So in 2015 and 2016 only 5,000 people get to Norway – a half of the 10,000 that the parties promised this spring. In addition, this agreement lacks a strong strengthening of the assistance needed in the neighbourhoods, and the increased effort is partly disbursed from assistance. Therefore, it is not rich Norway that goes further — the bill is to be paid in part by others, who are in need of assistance. That's why we couldn't be part of this. In 1993, Norway settled 12 000 refugees from Bosnia. In 1999, we settled 6 000 people from Kosovo. The special thing in 1993 was that Norway was all set up. 272 of the country's 430 municipalities accepted, and in a few weeks there were new students in all classrooms throughout the country. Suddenly we had a new group of refugees in Norway, and it didn't go wrong, as many here today have said. On the contrary – at the time, tripartite cooperation between the municipality, the state and non-governmental organisations, a theme EN, which I am pleased to have entered into the agreement – was the desire to establish such cooperation in the future. At the hearing of this proposal in the municipal committee, I asked Red Cross if they were prepared to enter into such a task now, and they were. It worked. For these Bosnians, the figures show that they have done very well in Norway, probably because they set up a ‘Welcome hit’ where the voluntary sector and the municipalities accepted, instead of, as they are now, that the refugees are being met with a referendum. It is not possible to have a referendum against people in distress.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1480	I find it natural right now to say that with my post it becomes a little bit of a theme change. Now, for a long time, there have been refugees who have been involved, which is important, but now I am going to talk about what is traditionally the subject of revised debates, namely economic policy. What is very important, and which is also on the agenda in the media, is the increasing unemployment of which we are now beginning to see the outlines. This will mark the agenda, and it is serious. When everyone is at work, they will be better off on their own, not least through their own income, but also through the sense of everyday life. You have equal social contact with colleagues at work, and having a job ensures dignity. Literacy is the root of all evil, it's called. Societal researchers will probably express themselves differently, but still agree. Anyone who takes a tour of Europe's back streets will see it with his naked eye. Many people, especially many young people, are struggling because they are not needed, and they are not getting started on their lives. In Norway, unemployment rates are now increasing in certain industries, and in particular in sectors where there has been a shortage of professionals in the past, in the field of engineering and ICT. In this group, there were about 4,000 unemployed at the end of May. This was more than a doubling from last year. Probably the numbers will increase. Tekna-President Lise Lyngsnes Randeberg says today to E24: "I don't think we've seen the bottom. We think it's going to be more, and so we just have to cut our teeth together and get through it as best we can." She is supported by the Federal Head of Industry Energy, Leif Sande, who believes the same thing. Such changes in business, in this context caused by lower oil prices, we can do little with it. What we can do is use the best tool we have, to train young people and give them useful skills. A good basic education, but also a more active use of continuing training, is the tool itself to avoid fragmentation of unemployment. It keeps people going instead of being free. It allows society to have access to up-to-date competences. In its budget option, the Labour Party proposes a ten-point plan for increasing youth unemployment, including, inter alia: 2 000 more places of action, 1 000 more specialised school places, 3 000 more places of study, as well as several places for in-company training, more flexible use of the day-care scheme, so that formal training is provided in cases where it is appropriate, even if one goes on a day-care basis, and increased apprenticeship grants and more public apprenticeship places, especially in municipalities. The red thread of these measures is to give young people the paper that says they have completed an education, that they have proof that they can do something that gives them a job. What we also see is that the path to this goal for some will only be possible in a different way than through traditional school. To believe that tax relief, structural change or general change will give young people and young people unemployed without experience of work, I just feel a little naive. Employers will have competent people who know a profession and who can show experience in controlling working life. A young person who lacks this type of experience or does not have a diploma or a diploma from higher education has very little opportunity to contribute in any way, at least not to switch to Norway — except to be excluded. Government favorite tools, tax reliefs, do not necessarily help people who have fallen out of work and who need to fill their skills. Therefore, good education must be an essential part of the answer when we now see increasing unemployment, redundancies and redundancies. In April we learned that there were 8 000 more applicants for higher education. The government's response was zero new study places in the draft revised budget. The agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has led to more places of study, and that's good, but earlier in the period of the Solberg government, they have created 20 study places in total – and that in a situation where we know that we need more people in technological fields. We need more teachers, and we need more in the health and care professions. We have a lot of young people who want to study, we have full studies in these schools, and the government's answer is almost to ignore the creation of study places as an instrument. In the colleges, the situation is a little bit the same. In addition, many of the young people who receive support from Nav need formal education or Norwegian training, which I have previously had. I would like to remind the government that they chose to spend about 100 times more of their operating space in this budget on tax relief rather than on education. Instead, they should escalate the number of places to study, the number of places to study and the effort to get more through a good education cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1511	The government and the Right solve important tasks today and equip Norway for the future. There is a policy for growth and migration, and this is particularly important at a time when we see increasing unemployment and a slight dampening of growth in the Norwegian economy. A high cost level, combined with strong oil price falls, has quite significant impacts on the Norwegian economy and employment. Unfortunately, we see an increase in unemployment, especially in the South and West. The fall in oil prices gives rise to falling investments on the base, both for the supplier industry and for oil companies that now have to cut their stocks. Of course, low oil prices also turn out in lower demand internationally for goods and services provided by the Norwegian supplier industry. This industry, we must remember, is Norway's second largest export industry. After the pure sale of oil and gas, the products and services of the supplier industry are related to oil and gas which is our second largest exporter. They are hit twice both by the fall in investment on Norwegian pedestal, which is in fact the world's largest offshore market, and are hit by the decline in demand internationally. For those who lose their jobs, this is a serious situation. Having a safe job to do is the most important asset we have in our society. Today, we see that unemployment affects people with high education, engineers and employees in ICT. At first, most found new jobs relatively quickly, but now there are signs that new jobs are less likely to be found. This means that we need to create many new profitable jobs in the future, and we need to have a policy that supports such growth and development. The government has it. Fortunately, the picture is nuanced, and the unemployment rate varies geographically. For example, our northernmost counties, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark are low and the level of activity is high. Also counties such as Eastfold, Westfold, Hedmark, Oppland and Oslo have lower leave now than a year ago. The challenges are geographically different. Many companies are being helped by low dollar rates and a moderate wage settlement. Norway is a country with great potential. We have a well-trained population. We have some of the best professionals in the world, and we have a lot of natural resources we can use. That means that at a time when we go from specialty to conversion, we have many opportunities to succeed in creating new, profitable jobs. Then we also need a targeted and active policy to process these opportunities. Government and Right Solutions are responding to these challenges in the future. Therefore, the current year’s government budget spending on growth factors such as knowledge, infrastructure, tax relief is important in order to facilitate new growth and secure jobs. The work done to strengthen the working line is important, and increasing access to capital is an important element for new growth. We must work for good framework conditions both for today's business and for tomorrow's jobs in companies that have not yet seen the light of day. A solid effort is being made to facilitate future jobs and to strengthen our ability to adapt by focusing on knowledge, education and research. It is good that the Right in Government uses 1.5 billion in 2015. kr more than in 2013 for innovation in business, through inter alia. The Research Council, Innovation Norway and the SketteFUNN scheme. In the negotiations on the revised national budget, we also agreed to establish a new pre-seed fund scheme to further stimulate more entrepreneurial activity. Right-wing government has strengthened Enova's climate technology fund by 12.75 billion. kr and Innovation Norway's environmental technology system of 500 million. kr. These are important means that are made available to create the jobs of the future. This year we're going to spend about 10 billion. kr more for infrastructure compared to 2013. It means a mission to the business community, more jobs in the construction industry, and it means a reduction in transport costs for the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1539	Government parties seem to have an abstract relationship with the choice between tax cuts and welfare. As late as the municipal economic debate on Tuesday, we heard that the right-hand side is still talking about dynamic tax effects. But in the real world, we see that general tax cuts are not a particularly effective recipe for change and growth. On the contrary, the vacancy is now over 4 pst. for the first time in more than ten years. When the government has given priority to 12 billion. In tax cuts so far, it means that school care and care for the elderly are a priority. The money has been used elsewhere. Local newspapers throughout the country report cuts in municipalities or lack of ability to follow up all the expectations of the municipalities of Stortinget in a number of areas. It is very good to say about Norwegian care for the elderly, but the use of coercive services, which has been mentioned earlier this week, is a symptom that scarce budgets mean that there are many places where there are few employees at work with enough time to give the elderly a decent care. This week we have also heard that there have been 157 more health-care sisters and other health-care professionals in the school health services and in health-care centres. That's very good. But there's only one catch by it all: when the Stortinget put off 180 million. For this purpose, the 2014 budget provided that it would provide nearly 300 health sisters. So there are 130 health sisters missing in relation to the Storting assumption. Of course, this is because responsible municipal politicians will not hire health sisters if they have to quit health professionals or teachers. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to earmark the appropriations for school health services and health stations, but it is not least necessary to significantly increase the municipal economic framework. That's why the Workers' Party proposed $3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities in 2015. That's why we're also going to support an additional 1.2 billion. kr today, which will remedy the most acute situation. But we also believe that it is absolutely necessary to compensate for the entire tax failure that the municipalities can have this year, so that we do not risk repeating last year, where the municipalities experienced a income loss of 2 billion. NOK which they went with them into 2015 and labored to cover in. This year, as last year, there is a significant disagreement between the government and the KS on the extent of the tax failure. We don't want the fasitite until December, but I would like to remind you that the government bombed roughly last year, and that it was KS that got right. A new estimate from the Statistical Central Bureau now shows that this year’s failure can reach 2.8 billion. kr, and this gives cause for concern. Furthermore, we have not been given an explanation as to why the Progress Party in the opposition felt that tax losses had to be compensated for in the municipalities as a principle, while the government believes that tax losses should not be compensated for in the municipalities as a principle. Earlier this week, also today, we have heard from the Minister of Finance that municipalities do not need property taxes. It currently represents a revenue of 10 billion. kr. A related question will then be: Why has the Right-Fremskritsparti-city council in Bergen reintroduced property tax? Is it because they like to torment themselves and the mountains, or is it the opposite of protecting the mountains from cuts in municipal services, when the government doesn't give Bergen the money you need? I tend to agree with the Minister of Finance's party trap in Hadsel, Northland, which says: ‘I do not agree with Siv. The municipalities are not getting enough.’ He believes that the Minister of Finance has an unrealistic approach to the local economy, and makes the point quite clearly: lower taxes will cut service provision. This is probably also the reason why the Progress Party – Høyre-steered municipalities do not take advantage of the opportunity they have to cut the property tax, which is a state and a municipal part. I have also noted that the government has sent proposals for changes in the property tax on works and use to be consulted. A regulatory review is good, but it must not be modified in a way that further weakens the local economy. For Hammerfest, the councillor is now counting on what this means, and so far it looks like the municipality of Hammerfest can lose 140 million. kr only on the consultation proposal sent out by the government. In addition, there is a risk that the tax failure of the municipality of Hammerfest may amount to 30 million. kr. So $170 million. kr only risks losing the municipality of Hammerfest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1568	Norway is a good country to live in. There's no doubt about it. Many are in gainful employment, but the average working time per person employed is low compared to other countries. In order to ensure a large and efficient workforce in the future, employment policies and welfare systems need to be designed to make work pay. Tax policy is and will be very central in this context. Business taxation must stimulate growth in business, in order to secure jobs and, in particular, to create new ones. When we are now witnessing that many people in oil-related industries, in particular, will be out of work, business taxation and business framework conditions are crucial for start-ups. Then we all have to be more effective. The Productivity Commission has just focused on this. In order to increase productivity in the Norwegian economy, public sector needs to be reformed – more competition, less bureaucracy and clear budgetary priorities. When it's like 30 pst. of us working in the public sector, it is a great responsibility for us politicians to manage the resources of the state and local authorities with care, so that we show respect for taxpayers' money. The government and the bulk of the population have made major reforms on current bands. These include: police reform; structural reform in the university and higher education sectors; comprehensive reforms in the transport sector such as the establishment of a separate road development company; a framework for OPS in the road sector; and reforms in the toll sector. In addition, there is a railway reform that provides more commercial facilities for both the operation of the train and the infrastructure manager. We can have high expectations for a successful municipal reform that will facilitate a more efficient public sector in this area. The 2015 budget proposed andadopted a reform to red tape and streamline government administration. All activities of government were required to implement efficiency measures so that part of the gain is returned to the Community in the annual budgets. In this way, there will be increased scope for action on new necessary priorities. This transfer was set to 0.6 pst. of all operating costs. It is important if this is to have the necessary effect that the measures must be part of a process envisaged. It has to be assumed that this will be part of the budgetary work in the future. Increased productivity and migration are often demanding political processes. The instruments associated with this can be demanding and can be developed over time. Reforms often involve costs, and they come first and foremost, while the benefits of the reforms come later. This means that policy in this area is long-term. But increased emphasis on productivity provides a better basis for the future, growth and prosperity. Let me make it clear that it is not just the public that needs to have a searchlight on to become more effective. The private sector must certainly also take its share of it. If framework conditions and fiscal policies are taken into account for growth and efficiency in relation to private enterprises, society must also expect business to contribute. All our large and small enterprises can and should provide their best for conversion and innovation. Responsibility for bringing the nation forward and creating jobs for everyone is and becomes a shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1587	I think many representatives today have made very good contributions and have had descriptions of the terrible humanitarian disaster in Syria. I think the representative of the Green Party and the Left in particular had very good descriptions of the situation, which I shall not repeat. But what I'm surprised about is that you don't draw the right endings after these descriptions. In serious crisis situations and disasters that affect fellow humans, we need to help and contribute to saving lives and health for as many as we can. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that Norway and the world community must and must help as many as possible in the most effective way possible. It is in this context that the majority's proposal to accept 8 000 Syrian refugees needs to be assessed and analysed. On March 31, this year, the United Nations asked for $65 billion. DKK for emergency aid in the Syrian neighbourhoods. So far, donor countries have given the UN 30-billion-dollar insurance. kr. In other words, the UN has unmet emergency aid needs in the Syrian neighbourhoods of over 35 billion. kr. Calculations by the Ministry of Justice and Defence show that a Syrian refugee in Norway represents a direct cost of 1 million. kr over a five-year period. 8 000 Syrian refugees will therefore incur direct costs of 8 billion. kr over a period of five years. According to UDI figures and statistics, an average Syrian refugee will receive 0.7 people for family reunification. This is a conservative estimate, as 1.4 family reunions per Syrian refugee were found in Denmark. When we use UDI's conservative estimate of the number of family reunions, we have to note that there are actually a minimum of 13 600 Syrian refugees in the period. The most important thing in a serious crisis situation is to save as many lives as possible. At the same time, it is natural that people seeking protection have ambitions to return to their homeland and contribute to repatriation. In such a perspective, the pick-up of an estimated minimum of 13 600 refugees to Norway, including family reunification, will be symbolic policies. This figure represents about 0.1 of all Syrian refugees and internally displaced persons. The refugee aid bisto last year was 1.6 million refugees at a cost of 750 million. kr in Syria and neighbouring countries. We, who have promoted this proposal, and the Progress Party, believe that it is also known that refugee aid in connection with the crisis in Syria has been in contact with various international donors with examples of how the organisation can help approximately. 1 million refugees within a framework of 1 billion. kr. The Progress Party has always wanted to increase the proportion of emergency aid in the aid budget. Turning resources from the traditional and controversial state-to-state assistance to direct emergency aid is a measure that could help hundreds of thousands of people quickly. In 2014 was under 10 p.m. of Norwegian assistance used for emergency aid. The share of emergency aid was not increased despite the fact that one of the greatest humanitarian disasters since World War II was just outside Europe’s doorstep. With this as a hindrance, the Progress Party wants to significantly increase the proportion of emergency aid, which could benefit considerably more people rather than get a few to Norway. The proposal therefore proposes to redispatch 1 billion. kr for emergency aid for Syrian refugees in the neighbourhoods. This billion could help to help some 1 million refugees in the vicinity. We will stress that this priority is in addition to the billions already granted by the government to remedy the situation in Syria and the neighbourhoods. The progress party believes that the only moral right thing is to help as many people as possible in need and danger of life. There is a large and wide range of professional international perception that this is best done in the neighbourhoods. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that a Syrian refugee to Norway will incur costs of 7 million. kr in the course of life. With a possible family reunification of 5,600 people, costs will rise to over 95 billion. kr. This is a policy that will in the long term challenge the foundation of the welfare society. In other words, the majority will spend $95 billion. kr to receive 8 000 Syrian refugees to Norway. The progress party will use 1 billion. kr to help 1 million refugees in the neighbourhoods. That's this perspective we want to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1608	I cannot fail to comment on the very special situation that we experienced here in Stortinget when the representative Tybring-Gjedde went into the throat of the Right parliamentary leader. I won't say anything about what kind of feeling I got from the cooperation climate, but Trond Helleland responded very well. But it was really the Minister of Finance who was supposed to be in the “witness box” – excuse me – because she is the one who is going to implement the agreement on the Syrian refugees. It expects an active follow-up to a good and very necessary and important agreement. Norwegian Industry fears that unemployment in Norway may rise to 200,000, which in that case will be the highest unemployment since World War II. There may be a very serious situation, but the government is unfortunately too passive, anything but the lead was, and helps to make the situation worse: more temporary work has been a battle cause, they waste with tax cuts that increase differences between people, they do not see the employment effect of stimulating the local economy, and they cut off the benefits of those who have little in the past. They even take the holiday money from the unemployed. It's a bit unhealthy about what's happening, and it can cost people and society dearly if the government continues to dismantle the Norwegian model. Does the Christian People's Party, for example, think it is okay for families with children, where one of the parents has lost his job, to be without income in July? I'm asking. The Christian People's Party and the Left must join in putting their feet down vigorously until it's too late, and too much has been lost. Much is also difficult to reverse in retrospect. This week's most realistic political statement came from the Minister of Finance and the party leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, in connection with the fact that 48 more municipalities, including many municipalities with blue rapporteur, have introduced property taxes. The municipalities do not need the property tax, they have a good framework and must see to it that they are more efficient, the message from Siv Jensen when the evening post asked for a comment on the flowering of property tax after the Right and Advance Party came to power. The property tax exceeds 10 billion. kr for Kommune-Norway. Obviously, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Advance Party believe that the municipalities can do well without them. This was, in fact, the final proof of the lack of understanding of the right-wing party government for the demanding situation of Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities and the major tasks to be solved today and in the years ahead in the sector. This testifies to the lack of confidence in the judgement and the capacity of local politicians — and perhaps also to check with employees’ organisations whether they have heard of the word ‘efficiency’ before, and whether their members are actually on a daily basis and are contributing to it. Norwegian municipalities don't go idle. In order to be fairly close to fulfilling its minimum set-up, the revised national budget has added 1.2 billion. kr – increased by 0,1 following negotiations with the Left and Christian People’s Party – as partial compensation for tax failure. By the way, right should be right: they don't want to call it 'compensation' because they're against it. It is worrying, as a principle, especially when we look at the latest data from the SSB that it indicates that there may be further – perhaps twice as much – tax failure as has been so far notified. We're going to hope it doesn't get so wrong. With the Workers' Party's alternative scheme, the local government sector would receive 2 billion. kr in tax compensation for last year, SEK 3,4 billion. kr more this year and 3 billion. kr more next year. It would provide better care for the elderly, increased quality in school, etc. Instead, the savings knife goes hot in the municipality by municipality. Investing in the municipal sector is smart for a number of reasons, and especially now, because the local economy is stimulated, it has a very positive impact on employment — and it is all over the country. It also stimulates the local economy and stimulates business. Many municipalities are facing an additional challenge in the future. The government launches a scheme that will increase the difference in income between municipalities with a kind of municipal share of corporation tax. This will redistribute at the base of 3 billion. kr between municipalities. The scheme is based on the payroll mass in the private sector, and the government will implement this entirely regardless of the very different assumptions of Norwegian municipalities in order to obtain such income. It is now even more important which side of the municipal border is or is to be established. It could hamper constructive cooperation on business development and planning. So to the very concept of ‘value creation’: in the view of the government, it is obvious that the private funeral agency is engaged in value creation, for which the municipalities are then to be premiered in the new scheme – not the public food establishment. Private kindergartens are value creation – not public kindergartens. The examples could be very many. This will also lead to a major bureaucracy, but the government is starting to become more and more well-known for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1631	The government is leading a policy for growth and transformation. This showed the state budget for 2015 and also the revision of the budget that we are discussing today. The government will equip us for a new time. We have to convert – we go from a nation that has been in a special position for many years, to a new normal – but the transition will take time. The former finance councillor Svein Gedrem gave a talk on 10 December 2014 entitled ‘At the turning point?’. Now, 1.5 years later, it seems like there was a proper analysis. There's a more worrying economic time we're in now than just a year ago. Since the fall in the oil price last summer, the outlook shows that the Norwegian economy can change rapidly, and the growth outlook for the Norwegian economy is slightly weaker. A setback in China and in other emerging economies could further reduce oil prices and create financial market turmoil. The rise in the euro area is fragile. The current monetary policy in many countries is out of date, and the situation in Greece has not been clarified. Politics is about prioritizing. Governments in the fields of knowledge, education, research, transport and, not least, ensuring that industry enjoys good competitive conditions through lower taxes on ownership and work, are right priorities for the economic time in which we live – and not like the Workers' Party, which will meet companies to increase taxes. It is very gratifying and positive that the social partners share the same understanding and reality of the economic situation and that the paycheck is adapted to the economic situation. It will mitigate production, employment and job losses from the lower demand from the oil industry. High employment and low unemployment are central objectives of the government. We see that unemployment varies in different parts of the country, and that the western and southern countries are most affected by lower investment in the petroleum industry. During the hearing held on 19 May by the Finance Committee, the organisations expressed satisfaction that the government is now proposing extensions to the Permits Code. Labour market measures can also help unemployed people to return to work, and the government introduced in the revised national budget 1000 new action places primarily for outsourced groups in the labour market. In agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, there was agreement on an additional 500 ordinary labour market action places. And the government is clear that one follows developments closely with regard to unemployment and, where appropriate, the implementation of several other measures. The municipalities and county councils account for about half of the public service output. This government prioritizes the municipalities. It shows the revised national budget, where the government added 1.1 billion. kr for transfer to the municipalities – further enhanced in comparison with the Christian People’s Party and the Left with at the top of 100 million. kr. This allows municipalities to maintain their activity. It shall provide safe kindergartens, school knowledge and good health and care services. Also in the municipal proposition, growth in free income for 2016 is forecast for municipalities, at the level of the average in the later years, and the total income for the municipal sector will increase by 6-7 billion. kr. When it comes to taxes, I will highlight two areas that can lead to a positive development. The first is the agreement that the cooperative party has reached when it applies the principle and direction of future car charges. It is a pleasure that one agrees that one of the charging systems gives consumers incentives to choose climate-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies that provide low emissions. The second is the warning given by the government to the revised national budget on reduced electricity charges for large data centres. In the last two years, three large data centres have been established in Norway – Rennesøy in Rogaland, Rjukan and Fet – and the fourth is built this year in Lørenskog. In the revised national budget, the government reports that one will propose changes to the government budget for 2016, so that large data centres pay a reduced electricity charge. This is a very positive signal and can provide incentives for the development of more workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1650	Many have spoken in this debate about conversion. This is not a new debate. In the West we are Norwegian masters in conversion – at least we mean ourselves. We know what this is about. We've done it before. But I think there's a need for clarification, because although everyone here today is talking about conversion, there are different definitions behind it. When we talk about change in the Labour Party, we talk about change that mobilizes the community, where we meet new times and new challenges together. This is why a separate package is found in our alternative revised budget to counter increasing youth unemployment, to contribute to growth across the country and to create more new jobs. The working party will spend the big money on the big future tasks. We want more people around the country to succeed on the road from idea to growth. We have 1 billion. kr more than the government to secure and create new jobs – 1 billion. kr more than the 1.5 billion. kr more that the government boasts, for which we are all here today. So let's see, we're going to have 250 million. kr to an accelerator program. With our match arrangement, $0.5 billion. to become available to early-stage entrepreneurs. I have traveled a lot around the country in the last year and met entrepreneurs. There are measures such as the accelerated programme that are requested, not tax cuts. In Trondheim, at the founding house DIGS, a founder told me that the OFU system is so bureaucratic and extensive that it is impossible to use it for newly created enterprises. That is why we are now proposing a new category of small and start-ups to facilitate more innovation in the interaction between entrepreneurs and the public. At the same time, the Workers' Party denounces the nutritional neutrality of the government. We spend money on industries where we have a advantage, on land and on forests, strengthen value creation measures, new infrastructure and research. We are changing Investinor's mandate, so that one can use the funds earmarked for growth in the forest industry. Already in the autumn, we proposed a reduction in the electricity charge at data centres, but we were voted down. The government now announces that it will follow, but we are impatient and will not wait until 2016. The scheme needs to be put in place urgently — Norway is already losing its competitive edge. So today we propose a reduced electricity charge from July 1st, but unfortunately again is voted down by the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We build on the environmental technology system to contribute to new green jobs, and we strengthen the net pay system for seafarers. The list of concrete measures for more jobs is, as you hear, long. We're going to spend almost 1 billion dollars. more than the government in future jobs. We meet the record high unemployment rate with concrete, targeted measures. That's what the Workers' Party means by conversion. But I have noticed that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are also happy to use the word ‘conversion’. There is no exception today. But it's unclear to me what they put in it. When the government talks about migration, measures are not followed up. One has to wait and see. It's classic thatcher right-hand side policy not to have faith in the community. I guess that also applies here. The message for over 100,000 unemployed people is: Go home and convert yourself. For what does the government actually do to improve the framework conditions? The main effort of the government is massive tax cuts to the one percent of the country that has the most from before. Even the Ministry of Finance must admit that the effects on the economy do not exist. Now, in the revised, one also tries a little cleverly: first, take away the permitting code, then reintroduces the old permitting code and calls it a bet. It's like first taking children's pocket money, then give them the same thing again and call it an increase in pocket money. The government has also cut in Innovation Norway’s professional programmes for the maritime sector and in the tourism industry. In addition, it's worth over 40 million. kr to get rid of 40–50 annual works in Innovation Norway – another additional allocation for increased red tape costs. The government today shows that it does not understand Norway. One does not understand the seriousness of the challenges you face. The finance minister has said that she sees signs of increasing unemployment, and is celebrating under the carpet the highest unemployment rate in ten years. The representative Fleet believes it is a budget for conversion, but finds no impact in the economy on the economies of scale tax cuts. The representative Limi has heard that the companies want better framework conditions, but have no new concrete measures, except for 12.5 billion. in tax cuts. The representative Meling listed the role of oil at home in Rogaland, but has no list of new measures for the unemployed in Rogaland. This is a serious response to the over 100 000 unemployed from the government of the country. We need targeted, concrete action now. It is therefore very regrettable that the proposals put forward by the Workers' Party to combat the increasing youth unemployment, to secure and create new jobs, are today downgraded by those set to rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1682	We've got a call for help. The war in Syria has created the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. Millions are driven by refugees, and half of the country's population depends on humanitarian aid. The neighbouring countries are under enormous pressure and accept large refugee flows. In this context, Norway has a duty to help. That is why I am pleased with the agreement on increased Norwegian efforts. It's both about helping people where they are, and it's about accepting quota refugees to Norway. With this agreement, $1.25. Dr Go to humanitarian aid in 2015, and we will see to it an increase next year. Help in Syria and its neighbourhoods is the most important and accurate aid we can provide. People in Syria and their neighbourhoods will need food, water, health care and shelter for many years to come. There's no disagreement about that. Once the war is over, both society and infrastructure must be rebuilt, and a secure future must be secured for the most vulnerable group of them all, namely the children of Syria. But when the world is hit by such disasters as we see in Syria, there should be no contradiction between helping those living in the neighbourhoods and Syria, and helping someone to start a new life here in Norway. That is why we have also agreed to accept 8 000 Syrian refugees in the period up to and including 2017. This debate is not just about a number, it is about people. But intentions alone are not enough. There has to be a realism in our plans – the plans have to be feasible. At home, the municipalities have to take a lot of this responsibility. They are responsible for housing and integration. What does that mean? Well, that means that we need to provide language training, work practices, education and community involvement. It also means an extra effort by professionals in areas such as psychiatry, child protection, police and volunteering. That is why we have also proposed economic instruments to help municipalities with this work. And then we must not forget the big problem that lies ahead of us of housing those who have already been accommodated and sitting on reception. There the government also does a continuous and focused work. This agreement is good because we agree to help most in the neighbourhoods, but also here at home. This agreement is feasible because it has clear assumptions about financial assistance to municipalities, remains the same procedural and selection procedures, and because the agreement provides for evaluation in the course of the process. Norway is a small country in a currently peaceful edge of the world. But we know that if the crisis should hit us in the future – as it has done in the past – we ourselves are dependent on the help of the international community. This is about solidarity, it is about all of us being vulnerable, and it is about all of us taking responsibility. But most of all, this is about the following: when we hear a call for help, we answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1703	At the entrance of the summer holiday, there are more and more people who have a cancellation or a cancellation notice with them home. It's a heavy should. For where the value of a job is measured in pure numbers on the bottom line of an employer, it is measured in terms of the value of a worker, it is measured in terms of a salary that makes it possible to support the family. Constant work does not only give dignity and self-respect. Work gives a strong sense of belonging, and therefore, "Work for All" always has our main goal of the Workers' Party, and so today's increasing unemployment is something we see very seriously. In 1933 there was an important and heated debate in this room. It was just about the will and ability to put in place powerful measures to build Norway after the economic crisis. Then the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Johan Nygaardsvold, said the following: 'We have enough money to afford only the will.' It is this might and this will we will try to travel for the great purpose: the whole people in work. The country needs policy-makers who understand the seriousness and who, at the same time, are willing to make the necessary efforts both against the increasing unemployment and for an active industrial policy, a policy that contains strong measures. When the financial crisis struck, we answered with just that. It also needs to be done. There's over 100,000 unemployed in Norway, there's over 4 pst. and higher than during the financial crisis. The Minister of Finance has always replied that they follow closely the situation. In the meantime, companies have lost their competence. Tax-free and neutral industrial policy is not the answer to the challenge we are now facing. In other words, there is something fundamentally wrong with both reactionary powers and the reaction of the sitting government. Not only do they give the wrong answer or no answer, the Prime Minister says in full seriousness that today's serious situation in the oil industry and rising unemployment is the debt of the previous government, and even today's industry calls this in its leader on June 3 as 'the state minister'. It is very strange also for businessmen what the government of Stoltenberg has to do with the cost problems in the supplier industry. In fact, we handed over the keys to government offices at a time when Norway had record low unemployment, high employment and strong growth in the economy. The Labour Party believes that the Prime Minister should stop misinterpreting history and rather create a future. Where I come from, Rogaland, has a set of consequences of this already. Stavanger is the oil town, and it's competence and technology that has made this adventure possible, that is, human. The inhabitants of Stavanger are more than a thousand Johan Sverdrup fields. It is also knowledge, creativity and creativity that have created the industrial adventure of Norway's history, whether it is power plants on Rjukan, oil in the North Sea or fishing in Lofoten. These are the same properties that enable us to solve tomorrow's tasks. ‘We need more wise heads and fine hands’ said Olav Hjelle from Sogn and Fjordane in connection with the dreamlift project to Innovation Norway. But more wise heads and fine hands are not the same as more workspaces. It knows many of those who are both wise and good, but who still don't have a job to go to. Stavanger has a proud industrial history, with hermetics, sailors, herring and petroleum, but there have been great wave valleys between each top. Then a non-passive one was set and just waiting for a new wave. We work together to create a new industry, new jobs and values that benefit the whole country. And as they say in Stavanger now: that city doesn't need any more membership politicians, they need opposition politicians, politicians who understand and react when adversity comes. It applies to Stavanger, and it applies to the whole country. An active enterprise policy is better than a passive enterprise policy – it is open – and an active enterprise policy is about the same as normal policies, about wanting. The working party will focus on growth opportunities in different regions. We also want to have our own domestic strategy to meet the challenges that grow more every day. «All the people at work, cost what it will cost. For in the long run that is what pays best anyway,” Nygaardsvold said in 1933. And over 80 years later, the country still needs this pardon from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1724	The opposition obviously thinks they have their own ability, because they think when they see something that's white, but describe it as black, it turns black. And if they see something going up, and then they say it goes down, and it goes up anyway, they think it just happens because they say it -- that up is down and down is up, and that things really aren't what they look like. This is also the case with this term ‘nutritional neutrality’, which I just have to wonder where the working party has found every day. Or, by the way, I know the answer to that. The last time I remember that it appeared in a public document was under the government of Stoltenberg I, and there it has probably been about the last 15 years. Nutrient neutrality is not, and will not be, the policy of this government. Why? Yes, because we have to bet on what we're good at. When, for example, a long-term plan for research and higher education, sets a new standard for what knowledge and research policy should be – not just a document with many words and fine promises, but concrete proposals for stepping up. We're not saying that they should be neutral, we're saying that we should bet on maritime industries, that we should bet on enabling technologies. And we're going to bet on our health clusters, because there we know that we have potential and are good from before. It is true, as many speakers have said, that we are now in a situation where there is a great need for change. But it's just the Workers' Party that seems to think that that need came suddenly six months ago. Most other parties have realized that a long time ago. The conversion policy for this government does not start now, it started at the moment we entered the government offices. One of the great failing sins of the previous government was that we did not use the good years to transform ourselves, to make the necessary changes, to carry out the necessary reforms, to secure jobs and to increase competitiveness, so that we would have been even better equipped in the situation we are today. Then it's fascinating to look at what the opposition thinks is a good policy to secure Norwegian jobs: it's the biggest tax increase of 15 years – the biggest tax increase of 15 years, which is going to pick up billions of businesses, from those who are going to pay the salaries to people, from those who create jobs. That's the opposition's solution. The representative of Tajik mentioned the Norwegian industrial venture and Rjukan. It is absolutely correct that there was a lot of it started in Telemark. There Birkeland and Eyde met, and then they laid the foundation for what became one of our really great success stories, Norsk Hydro. What did they need? They needed three things: they needed knowledge, an idea. They had, it made the engineer do it. Then they needed labour. They were able to get that. Then they needed capital. They needed capital to fulfill the dream of taming natural forces and creating both jobs and wealth. That capital was private, and some of it even came – God forbid! – from abroad. When we're going to change, we're not doing that because Norway is going to live on just new and completely unknown things in the future. We're still going to live on forest. We're still going to live off what we can fish from the sea. We're going to live on oil, we're going to live on gas, we're going to live on our power. We're still going to live off industry. But if we're going to be able to continue developing these industries, we need research and higher education policies at world level. That is why it is important to change policy when the new cooperation parties at Stortinget have a change of pace in research policy – away from tacit ambitions and over to real raising, more money, higher ambitions. That's why it's migration policy when the new majority on the Biggest finally tackles quality challenges in higher education, not just by talking about it, but by doing something about it. For this reason, it is migration policy when we take up the profession and the need to train more skilled workers in Norway, and when the new large majority of cooperation parties, among others, are involved. increases the apprenticeship allowance, which stood still in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. Then there came a temporary jump in 2009, before it stood still again the remaining part of the period. Now it's increased three times in a row. At the same time, there are also greater demands for apprentices at the companies from which we purchase. It's true that Stavanger is the oil town. It was hermetic city before that. It was knowledge that enabled them to make the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1744	The Stoltenberg government took the initiative of a public inquiry into the subject school sector and the inquiry, the Fagskolan – an attractive choice of education, was delivered to the Council of State on 15 December last year. In this context, the Council of State stated that 2015 would be the year of the vocational schools. The Labour Party shares the ambition of the Council of State, but halfway out in 2015, we have seen little about this. As far as I know, the Ministry of Knowledge has not taken any action to mark this year — in a situation where unemployment is increasing in Norway, and especially among young people. What will the Council of State do to make the vocational school year 2015 a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1753	That is quite correct, but I said that 2016 would be the year of the vocational schools. We're coming up with a big message about the colleges. There we are going to return to the position of vocational schools in the Norwegian education system, they have been voted on for too long. I think that in a situation that we're in right now, many people might need extra refills, for example. to improve the job they have, or because they are going to do a new job. This is where the vocational schools can play a very important role in their practical teaching. In the government statement, we say that we are going to reverse some of what I think was the worst thing you've done to the colleges in the past – I almost have to say – and that was to transfer the funding to the states. The government statement states that we must have state-funded vocational schools. There's some demand in the sector, and we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1762	Let me first point out that I notice that the use of the term "God forbidding" by the Council of States was not addressed by the President, but that my use of the same term was advocated. I hope this has nothing to do with a wild discrimination on the part of the presidency. I think the state council posts were partly very good, and I am very pleased that both the Right Party and the Advance Party often talk from this pulpit about the need for conversion. But most of the time it's going to be the rhetoric. There is little in the revised national budget that bears the mark that the government has actually taken up the need for change that the Minister of Knowledge is talking about. An example is the number of new places of study. Why did the government propose only 24 new study places in the revised national budget if what the Council of State spent 5 minutes talking about is so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1771	Let me first say that it may be that the President thinks that when a right-holder uses the words "God forbid", he does it in respect of the Lord of Spring, but that one of the SV might think in a slightly different way. [[Laughter]] I think there might be good arguments for using places of study if there is a situation where we see a lot higher youth unemployment. But I'm skeptical about substituting the knowledge policy and priorities of higher education for purely short-term purposes, in other words, thinking that we should scale up and down our higher education system, based on how unemployment is at all times. As I said, it may be a good tool to use gradually, but that's not our starting point for the dimensioning of higher education. There are also a number of areas where we – and not least the institutions – should give priority to training more people. But then they also have to be willing to bring down other types of study places.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1780	I can assure you that my relationship with the Lord of Spring, although unsolved, is filled with the greatest respect, and I hope it goes both ways. However, I do not know if I will get an answer to that with the first! Much higher youth unemployment, the Council of State said, had to be considered to increase the number of places to study. But now youth unemployment in Norway is approaching 10 pst. It's loud. This means that there are thousands of young people who do not have action, do not have work, do not go to school, and at the same time go out into a society with high migration needs and with a housing market that is overheated. It's not the best start to life. LO and UNIO both ask for large allocations to many more places of study, so that we get more young people in meaningful activity. How much higher than 10 pst. Do youth unemployment have to be a matter for the Council of State to take those signals seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1789	I believe that the most important thing for unemployed young people is to get a job. It's the most important thing. It is sometimes heard on the opposition as if it is important for the youth to have study places or to have action places or to have other types of follow-up. The most important thing is that they get a job. That's the basis for that. It is not that the higher education sector is the most effective instrument for an unemployed youth today. She may well have already been educated. It may well be that what he needs is a shorter retraining course, not a new, full education. First of all, we should not control the need for study and knowledge policy after the economic cycle. But there is a lot of knowledge policy that can contribute, both research policy and school policy. And then, of course, higher education — not least the specialised schools, which were mentioned here, can be important for transition. There is also something that the government has to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1798	When both Works and LO have stated that there will be no more people coming to work, for example. Because of the deregulation of the Labour Environment Act, I find it strange that the government does not at least do more in the revised national budget for more people to work. Government parties are voting down a whole series of proposals in the Chamber today that could remedy the situation of the unemployed in general, but especially for young people, but they do not choose to do so. Governments are right that there are no short-term economic conditions which should be the main criterion for the dimensioning of admission to study and higher education. But it must be that the needs of society are important. Governments talked a lot about conversion. Norwegian Industry, Abelia and Tekna have all asked for a package called Transferit to transfer skills, jobs and technologies from the petroleum industry and to new industries that we can live on far into the future. Why does the government not support this project? And why is it that the few (24) study places proposed by the government are all within the sector that is experiencing severe recession today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1807	With regard to the need for ICT and ICT studies, I fully agree that there is a documented need for more people to take up technological education, but especially ICT-related education. Our main contribution has been to create a long-term research and higher education plan that says something concrete about how much escalation we should have, for example. by scholarship holders, i.e. researchers training, also specifically about our ambitions to reach 1 pst. of GDP in the use of research, which in turn is crucial for the development of ICT education and training. Then I also believe that universities and colleges themselves need to dimension. We should not and should not – and should not – sit and fancy how many places there are in different subjects at different educational institutions. If we're serious about colleges and colleges being close to the workplace, they also have to think through: are there some types of studies we're now withdrawing, and other types of studies we should build up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1815	The President thanks the representative Serigstad Valen for ensuring that the President does his work. The President has no imagination as to whether there is different content in the expression "God forbid" whether you are on the left or right side, but notices that God has been in lack of an article in the hall so far today. Then the next and last representative is Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1820	I thought I was done!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1825	That was another line. It's good to think that you can be done, but there are several parties, and not everything went to SV this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1828	It seems like the Council of State is looking for a summer vacation. I agree with the representative Serigstad Valen that it was a good rhetorical post, but it was without content. Despite a youth leave of close to 10 pst. this government has nothing other than to bring tax cuts. The Labour Party today presents ten specific points and proposals. Right, they vote down. It is worth reminding the Council of State, which is wondering about this with business neutrality, that he should take a talk with his own Minister of Industry, who has cut in Innovation Norway's professional programmes in the maritime and travel sectors, and I would remind the Minister of Education that there was zero growth in his budget under the State budget. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party were able to fix it a little bit, but as Serigstad Valen pointed out, there are only 24 more places to study. Isn't it then the Council of State that fails to tell the actual reality? When he talks about sin, shouldn't the Right join our ten concrete suggestions rather than play high and dark?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1837	Now I think the representative said there was zero growth in the knowledge budget in the state budget. Not in any of our budgets have we been close to something that can be called zero growth. On the contrary, research and higher education have grown considerably. At school we have financed in two years the Workers' Party was finally drawn to say that it should be a further training effort over several years. Now we're up by over 1 billion. kr, as the Labour Party had as an election campaign promise that it might be possible during the period. We did it in two years. Zero growth: we're now in Oslo, and zero growth is so far away that you can't even see it from here. It has to be somewhere up in Finnmark or something like zero growth, and we're geographically located here. So that's not true. Let me give you one example of what we're doing for conversion: multiple apprenticeships. It requires active policy. In eight years, the apprenticeship grant increased temporarily once. Now it's increased three times in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1846	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1849	In my first debate of the throne, one of the Workers' Party's representatives claimed that at the time of the takeover of the government, the Norwegian economy was bottom-solid. This was only months after the presentation of the Perspective Communication, which concluded that the social democratic welfare state is not economically sustainable in the long term. Over the eight red-green years, the two sides of the economy increased. In 2012, it was invested at 200 billion. kr annually in the petroleum industry against 20 bn. kr on the mainland. Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea said at the change of government that Norway had never had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness as in the years under the red-greens. This is the government's job of turning around. The Norwegian economy has to be transformed into a new normal one where the oil industry is no longer a cornerstone enterprise for Norway, but a part of a major business shortage that gives us competitiveness. Even without the fall in oil prices, Norway faced demanding changes that the Workers’ Party did not even recognise to exist in December. Then the government's budget was attacked by the government playing unpopularly, but the necessary card when there was no basis for it at all. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party writes that the government has presented the most expansive budget in recent times. When the revised budget was presented, the Workers' Party's representatives thought it was too small, too late – this from the party that they believe understands Norway. So it turned out that the government's budget was better adapted to the actual situation in Norway than it was not entirely the bottomless story story. In the consultations with the Financial Committee in the context of the revised budget, the government was praised by several teams for providing important measures to stimulate increased value creation and boost growth in the Norwegian economy. A moderate increase in the use of oil money was described as reasonable in the development of weak growth and increased unemployment. In India, one sixth of students choose engineering and higher education technologies. The 10 pst. The smartest of these is more than all Norwegian higher education students combined. A new report shows that one in three Norwegian jobs can be automated and disappear over the next 20 years. This happens at the same time as we get an increasingly older population, and even though the oil industry will still have a big impact, it will no longer be an engine for growth. It is only the two government parties that seem to take seriously the need for conversion today. The only thing we hear from the Workers' Party is the reversal of the relatively moderate changes Right-wing Party government does to arm Norway for the future. The previous government had the largest economic space any Norwegian government has ever had. Instead of using the action space for the necessary conversions, public expenditure was almost doubled without visible results other than increased use of money. For example, Norway spends more money at school than others, but only produces average results and has high non-response rates. These are the same students who are going to compete with India for technology, innovation and entrepreneurship. Youth unemployment is not combated by amended permitting rules or action areas but by good framework conditions that create new, forward-looking jobs. Education is the key to future jobs. This government prioritises teachers’ vows and knowledge rather than fruit at school. It is almost absurd when UNIO leader Anders Folkestad accuses the Minister of Knowledge of Math hysteria. Basic math skills are not just a prerequisite for competing in technology and science. To become a hairdresser, carpenter or nurse, you must have basic skills in percentage and dosage. About half of the nursing students spend their days in drug dosing, which in worst cases can cost lives, and the minister of knowledge is accused of math hysteria. For eight years with a red-green government, we learned about historically high appropriations in almost all sectors, as if it were a result of itself. The only sector that was not satisfied was research and innovation – two of the key factors for sustainable growth and welfare development. The government is doing something about this. Norway now has a new direction that builds up under a competitive Norwegian business. This is a prerequisite for a sustainable welfare society, where those who come after us inherit a strong social security network that takes care of those who need it the most. If there is something that the financial crisis in Europe has shown us, it is that without reform we get a wobbling welfare state that tries to be for everyone, but ends up failing those who need it the most. Management is about making the necessary changes before you are forced to do so. The changes the opposition considers that there is no basis for doing so now. Municipal reform, near-police reform, teacher's promise, rail reform and the structural changes in higher education show that the government is already doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1868	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1871	In the case of measures against the increasing unemployment, the revised budget is non-active and is serious. For some of the most dangerous problems with unemployment, the tendency to bite is firm, and therefore a set of measures must be taken before it is expected to rise to an unacceptable level. And when well over 100,000 people are unemployed, we are dangerously close to such a level. For the first time in 10 years, the unemployment rate is over 4 pst. - Good over 9 pst. in the case of young people. VG could recently show that the government is soon back to its start when it comes to creating new jobs in Norway. The growth rate in the economy is halved, and there are over 20,000 more unemployed than when the government took over. To that, Minister of Labour Eriksson says to the same newspaper that there is no reason to draw a crisis picture for that reason, and we hear the same tone from several in the government parties. I think this demonstrates a fundamental difference in thinking between the Labour Party and the Right Party. In the debate, it is very interesting to try to make the right government party gold out of its own budget. For example, that the government is now reversing its own restraints in the rules of permeability. lack only. But in the meantime, important skills for many companies have been lost, and that helps very little for those who have already been laid off. In this context, it is worth remembering that there were also not only sunny days in the Stoltenberg government's time. In Norway, we managed to keep Europe’s lowest unemployment through the financial crisis, among other things. Because we had a government that took hold. Already in January 2009 we delivered a crisis package of 20 billion. kr. Then we got right from the Right and the Progress Party that our actions were too late. No one can hold a Norwegian government responsible for the fall in the oil price. But it's the sitting government that's responsible for counteracting the consequences of it. Now we are again in a demanding situation, and companies that are struggling look to the government for help. Then it's not useful to bring a drag with the empty toolbox. The Labour Party will create more jobs, and we will do so through a comprehensive innovation package for the whole country. We are developing a new industrial strategy for Norway and have recently presented a 10-point action plan to mitigate the consequences of the oil spill. Then we have our own youth package. If we do not implement powerful measures here, we risk a whole generation of Norwegian young people getting out of work for a long time. It may seem to the government that the market itself is going to solve these challenges. In any case, there is nothing in the policy that suggests that one wants to have an active policy that meets increasing unemployment. The result of this refusal is that more than what was necessary is at risk of losing a job. The question is how bad it must be before the government implements the necessary measures. While we're waiting for it, you're going to lose your job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1886	Norway was forced to wind up the system of a differentiated employer’s fee on 1 January 2004, but the Stoltenberg government was able to reintroduce the scheme from 1 January 2007. In the past, a unanimous financial committee — well to note in the past unanimously — has agreed that the differentiated employer fee scheme provides for a sound and effective district and regional policy. The social partners, such as the NHO and the LO, also say that the system of differentiated employer charges is striking and effective. I refer you to the request decisions No. 601 and 604 from 2014, where the government was first asked to provide an assessment of the effects of the compensatory measures proposed in Prop. 118 S for 2013-2014 and propose any amendments. Secondly, the government was asked to assess whether exceptional measures to strengthen security of supply could be a well-compensatory measure for industries affected by the changes to the DA scheme. Furthermore, the government asked the government to assess whether empowerment measures could also be an appropriate compensatory measure which must then apply to all sectors that are exempted from the reduced employer’s tax scheme. I am both disappointed and surprised that the government has waited so long to respond to the request decisions, and that the answer is in reality a blue copy of the current legislation and listing the current compensatory arrangements. The Government considers that the current system should not be modified and that any new compensatory measures must be financed by reductions in existing measures. I also allow myself to assume that a system that causes companies to be compensated directly, for example. with measures of competence, are quite accurate. Thus, the government does not choose to make real political assessments of the 2014 request decisions. They have been answered in principle, but in reality the answers do not signal any political will to change. The government should also carry out a review of the areas of the country that should be covered by the compensation scheme through infrastructure measures and explain to the Stortinge how these areas could be compensated for. In conclusion, I would urge the government to assess the various regional policy instruments in an overall context and to explain historical developments and the government's long-term plans for the further development of regional policy instruments. I ask the Minister of Finance to inform the Storting today, in this debate – unfortunately she is not here right now – about when the government intends to put forward a new proposal on the DA scheme, which was announced in June 2014, in a similar debate a year ago. Røe Isaksen would like to see more towards the north – it was Finnmark who was mentioned, but there is more to choose from there – and I would encourage the government to do so. Here's the ball on the penalty mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1903	I have registered that a few pieces have been notified that they have used unparliamentary terms today. I hope you can review your view of what is considered to be unparliamentary. Politics comes from the heart, and it should also be heard that way. So to the matter. Unfortunately, showing political commitment in Norway is often limited to how much one is willing to spend over the budget. That must be what people think when they say that we are all social democrats, because this total poverty of ideas is what defines social democracy. It's in its roots. Fortunately, not all of us are social democrats, some of us are conservative, Christian democrats, liberals. This majority understands that not everything can be solved by subsidies, and we understand that there is a difference between spending money on public budgets and letting people keep a little more of their money. It's true that this government has a different direction than the previous one. Why? Because the ideals of the left-hand side don't work. It's just looking at the story. It is when the left-hand side combines its ideals with civic goods that their policy has a legitimacy. The greater the degree of economic freedom and the more market economy a party on the left allows in its own policy, the better the policy of the party works. That is what creates growth, economic security and jobs. The constant criticism from the left to the right is therefore hollow. So how do we solve the unemployment challenge? Do we go to the left? No, their ideas don't give any answers. The working party has delivered a ten-point plan. It's just congratulations. Several measures are already under way by the government. Others are about overcoming – the normal response of social democracy. They will also address the challenge of youth unemployment by providing incentives for people not to complete higher education in a normal time. But what does it take to create jobs? Well, they're going to bet on action sites, and then they're going to grant a little. This government has two thoughts in its head at the same time. Action areas are being set up, and indeed, while clearing up the action system, adjusting welfare systems and doing what is needed to re-establish the employment service in Nav. It's important to help all those who are outside — an alienation that creates inequality. The hidden absence is the legacy of the Workers' Party. They showed no ability to address the challenge, and they show no willingness to contribute today. The foundation of good social policy must be that nothing combats poverty as having a job to do. This makes it possible to make more business start-ups, innovation – bigger investments. The tax burden will be lower, the regulations will be lower. Fortunately, today we have a majority who realize that jobs are not created on a desk at Youngstorget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1923	For the Progress Party, it is quite clear that it is more right to rescue and help 1 million refugees in the neighbourhoods than to take 8 000 refugees to Norway. I think in many ways it is alarming that the other parties in the agreement they have mentioned want to grant only 250 million. kr for assistance in the neighbourhoods. That's why I'm glad the Progress Party has found room to grant 1 billion. kr in addition to what the government has proposed. Helping as much as possible is right and necessary and in line with the United Nations' request for help. The United Nations needs 35 billion dollars. In order to deal with the huge flow of refugees in neighbouring areas, the Progress Party proposes, unlike the majority, that Norway should take a great deal of responsibility here. I note that the proposals of the Progress Party on referendum have been ridiculed and trivialised by politicians who are afraid of the people's opinion on this matter. I'm proud to belong to a party that has always fought for more direct democracy, working with the people and against the knowledgeable and self-righteous elite that fears popular referendums on big questions. It has been stated that the question of taking 8 000 acids to Norway should not be important enough to justify a referendum. I strongly disagree here. This is a decision that will cost taxpayers enormous sums, and this type of decision will in the long term contribute to challenging the welfare community itself. According to the SSB figures, an average Syrian refugee would incur a cost of 7 million. kr during life, provided that they have the same integration rate as an average Iraqi immigrant. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that this is a conservative estimate. According to the statistics of the SSB on employment among immigrants, which was published this week, immigrants from Syria had the lowest employment among all 136 individual countries in the statistics. The employment of the Syrians now living in Norway was on record 26 p.m. in the 15-74 age group. In comparison, the employment rate of the population as a whole is 70 pst. As a result, there are dramatic cost obligations incurred by Norway in accepting 8 000 Syrian refugees over the next three years. If we take the above numbers into account, this means that the total life-cycle cost of 8,000 acids in total will be at least 56 billion. kr. That's a lot of money we're talking about. It is enormously summarizing this decision that the majority invites to take today, it will cost Norwegian taxpayers over many years, and it will bind up large expenditure items in the budgets. When we then know that we could spend a much smaller sum, but a larger sum than the majority will, on help in the neighbourhoods and could help a lot more people, I don't understand why you are reluctant to the proposals of the Progress Party. To me, it is quite obvious that the people must have the opportunity to express their opinion on this matter, and I also hope that the other parties can see the importance of taking the public opinion seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1940	The first half of 2015 has been especially in the Hordaland state when it comes to race. In March 2015, there was snow in the Romarheim valley in North Hordland. The road was blocked for ten days. In the revised national budget, the majority of these figures have reached 40 million. kr in addition to the protection of highways in order to ensure the construction of a better gliding area in this area. The center party believes the need is much greater, and increases the funds for racial protection of highways by 100 million. SEK, corresponding to an increase of 140 million. kr in relation to the State budget. There's a dramatic situation associated with the E16 race between Bergen and Voss and the Vossaban. Tuesday, May 12, there was a race across the line and the E16 in the Waksdal, and the week after, the 21st. May, there was another large breed in the same area The situation is precarious for both residents, passenger traffic and business. Whole Hordaland is impatient and is now waiting for the government to complete its assessment of the draft evaluation of the proposed new road and track Bergen–Voss, where alternative K5 is given broad local support. In the meantime, it is important that immediate action is taken. The state road authority has mapped 29 raspunkt points on the road between Bergen and Voss that need immediate action. SV's proposal in the E16 resolution in Hordaland for the rebalancing of the State budget for 2015 and in the 2016 budget year is therefore an important proposal which should be supported by cross-political support. The point is that, in meeting the Hordaland bench, the State Road Service in Hordaland has made it clear that they are able to re-prioritize the means to ensure the racial protection of E16 in the current year, provided that they are assured that the planned and prioritised racial protection projects that will then be postponed will receive funding next year. The central party agrees that the dangerous situation requires priority to be given to safety, life and health along the E16 Bergen–Voss, and that the Stortinget in the revised national budget provides the Vegvesen with the financial guarantee for the re-priorities it has made. I would like to inform you that the Centre Party supports its proposal No. 39 to ask the government to give priority to the necessary racial protection funds for rebalancing along the E16 in Hordaland in the rebalancing of the State budget and in the financial year 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1951	The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance talk a lot about the need for a new normal transition – a transition to increase Norway’s competitiveness and boost growth. They're talking about conversion as if it's something new, as if there's something this government has invented in contrast to the Stoltenberg government. Their starting point is that the need for conversion was created under the previous government and that there was not enough effort to improve competitiveness then. The Prime Minister even blames today's increasing unemployment in the supply industry on the red-green government. Even they take no responsibility. Blame on others is a little credible and trusting and ill-dressed by the Prime Minister. Today's Businesses commented on these opinions in the Chair and called them ‘Minister of State.’ It might be a good thing that even other people than us point this out. It was a good starting point for the Solberg government to take over. They themselves have to take responsibility for the situation now. We have also heard in the debates here that the Labour Party is accused of not wanting to participate in reform and conversion. The switchover has always marked the Norwegian society. Changeover is normal. The working party has been a driving force in this. The Labour Party has supported family policy reforms with the development of kindergartens and parental leave in order to facilitate the contribution of both women and men in working life. The Labour Party has supported reforms in the labour market that have made it possible for more people to be able to do more work. The Labour Party has supported reforms in school and higher education, in the organisation and management of the public sector, and we have implemented tax and pension reforms, to mention something – reforms to secure jobs and facilitate growth and development. Many of the reforms have been against the right. To claim that the Workers' Party does not want to change, but is only concerned with preserving everything as it has been, is at best historyless and without root in reality. However, the fact that we are criticised for not wanting to participate in inadequately investigated reforms in the tax and customs services and road and rail sectors is all right. For the background is that in these areas we have other solutions based on our policies, our values. However, we are a constructive opposition party and do not reject government proposals if they match our policies and values. I think that's what we have. by being part of the police reform. Oil money use has increased during this government. It may not be surprising when we remember the debates with the Progress Party in the opposition. It is surprising, however, that the Progress Party has not been able to break the rule of action, as they suggested in the previous period, but, on the contrary, the rule of action now underpins economic policy. It is possible the finance minister thought she would get support for her point of view by setting up the Thøgersen Committee. However, this is a strong emphasis on the fact that it is not the rule of action that should be scrapped, as the Progress Party has previously proposed, but the economic policy of the Progress Party. We must be glad that the Progress Party has not achieved this in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1964	It's spending more than 100 billion dollars. Dr to receive 13 600 refugees to Norway, at the expense of so many others not being helped, has nothing to do with humanism or closeness at all. It's more like naivety. It has always been easy to be naive and silly when it's everybody else's wallets that will have to pay. Reality is that if we are to help to a degree as monks, it has to be done in the neighbourhoods. It's the only thing that'll do if the purpose is to help as much as possible. Take the refugee problem in Pakistan – 1.5 million Afghan refugees who have been there for 30 years without residence or citizenship. In Lebanon, there is a huge refugee problem — today it is Syria, but traditionally it has been Palestinians, for decades after decades, without citizenship and in large camps. There are still more than 800 000 Afghan refugees in Iran. Turkey houses today approx. 1.5 million refugees, where most people get to meet the most necessary needs like food and a place to sleep. The United Nations has asked for 3.2 billion dollars. kr to help Syrian refugees in Turkey. Jordan has many refugees, Ethiopia houses nearly half a million, Kenya houses nearly 1 million Somali refugees. These are real and actual numbers, and then I haven't taken with others, like boat refugees or that today there are 1.2 million people who are displaced from their homes in Ukraine. Overall, we're talking about 59.5 million people on the run. With the majority of the Storings today adding up, the sum is not going to be 59.5 million, it's going to be 59 486 000 people who are displaced on the run. So the decision that is being made here today won't help many refugees. We have to take that into account, and we have to understand that, because that's where our help can be primarily effective. Earlier today, I overheard the head of the Central Party complaining about the poor local economy. I can assure Battle Force Vedum that it will not be better by accepting 13,600 acids. It's also a paradox, in conclusion, that the same parties that want to accept 13,600 acids have still not come up with a solution that keeps our pensioners in a fair way. When you set things up against each other, it gets hard fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1977	For me, it's not about being naive, because it's not about being stupid – if I'm going to refer to Fredriksen's posts. For me, it's all about helping Syrian refugees about a burning commitment, helping people in need, in the neighbourhood and in their own country. That's my input into these questions. It's not about Fredriksen's use of words. But then on to something completely different. The Gjørv Commission, appointed by the Stoltenberg government in August 2011, was commissioned to review and learn from the attacks in the government quarter and the massacre on Utøya on 22 July 2011. The Commission draws up some main conclusions on the failure of that fate day. Among other things, the Commission emphasises that the ability to recognise risks and take lessons from exercises was too small, and that the ability to coordinate and interact has been deficient. Coordination is challenging in a number of societal areas. Working across departments and sectors that initially have close shoots between businesses requires both practice and conscious attitudes about when and how to cooperate. At the same time, we know that good coordination is crucial when crises arise. There is also good evidence that there is a need for more common training and training between our response actors. The size has addressed two large-scale notifications of this, by June 2013 at the latest. In Report. St. 29 for 2011–2012 says among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Effective crisis management requires a good understanding and respect for the role and responsibilities of different social actors.» In Report. Paragraph 21 for 2012–2013 states: ‘The experience gained on 22 July 2011 showed that there is a need for improvements in interoperability between emergency situations.’ The size also decided to introduce a fourth principle for crisis management in Norway — see Table 1. the treatment of Report. Article 29 – the principle of cooperation. The concept of interoperability must be filled with content, and provision must be made for the response actors, who are getting more and more training together. Smoking has a very suitable area for this, which is also documented through several reports. For two years local forces have been working on developing the concept of Rygge Emergency Centre. This work must continue, and it is high time that the country supported this important development work. That's why it's good that the Rygge Emergency Centre today gets 2 million. kr through the revised national budget. It is also important that the Ministry of Justice and Security engage in close dialogue with the project to look at sustainable solutions for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e1998	I think the Prime Minister got so much praise in the new year, where she talked about green conversion, that Norway had to have more legs to stand on, that we can't have so much of our revenue coming from the oil sector, and that we now need to start the big work, was a expectation that this would be followed up with action. The rose is only hollow if action is not followed up. Then the government puts forward the budget for 2015, there's a lot of debate about it, and then there's a lot going on. Suddenly there is a whole new situation in the oil sector. It sends shock waves into the rest of the Norwegian economy. We don't know the scope and consequences of what professionals are talking about yet – multiplier effects, etc. What does the government do? Well, she comes with a budget that's bad -- about the same thing as last time. There are slight changes: a little increase due to the tax access to the municipalities, but in addition to that, they have found the fasit in October. Let me give you an example of this, because I think it's actually not just the government that sleeps an hour. We can call it an example of how flat and hollow the big words about green switching in this room actually is: In March Abelia, Norwegian oil and gas, Tekna and Norwegian Industry launched a joint proposal for a technology transfer programme from the petroleum sector. Their starting point was that technologies developed by the Norwegian petroleum industry should be more widely used to generate growth for other industries. They brought forward renewable energy, service sector, marine, space and health as examples of industries that could gain a boost through the very transfer of skills and technology from the oil industry. They're called the Transferit program. The methodology was taken from the United Kingdom and had documented effects. They had proficient information, and I'm going to think that everyone who came to this room got it with them at some point. The initiative from all of these actors is in the middle of the flash for Norway, especially now with increased unemployment. This initiative comes from the industry itself. Norway has developed world-leading skills and technologies in petroleum-related industries after several decades of high bets. A natural and at the same time beautiful conversion would be to take this knowledge and use it elsewhere. The initiative of these actors costs 35 million. kr for 2015. There's no big price tag, seen in the context of what the goal of the program was. One would think that a bunch of puddles embraced this, took hold of it and went on. But who has taken up this one project, this one initiative from industry? It's only SV. It's only SV that's taken it, and it seems to me to illustrate the situation a little bit. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2009	Thank you, then the next speaker is Bente Stein Mathisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2012	The first reform was adopted by a unanimous increase in 2011 under the Stoltenberg II Government and entered into force on 1 January of this year under the Solberg Government. So this reform is a real political community. The purpose of the reform is to make it easier to combine work and disability for those who have a variable course of illness and who can work for periods. At the same time, the reform shall ensure a good income for those who are unable to work. The new disability benefit is now taxed as wages and, in order to compensate for increased tax, the new gross benefit has been increased. The tax proposition put forward by the Stoltenberg II Government in 2012–2013 showed that some would get worse with the reform. It refers to the taxation of employee income: «As a result, increased taxes shall be compensated for by increased gross underperformance so that new ones on average come out somewhat better than current tax rules.» It goes on to say: «Persons with income and/or deductions other than standard deductions may receive a slightly higher or lower post-tax income as a result of taxing benefits as remuneration.» And on the other hand, «Persons with a higher level of income, not currently covered by the tax restriction rule, will get worse». [[...]] In the context of the 2015 state budget, the government of Solberg therefore proposed a transitional arrangement to facilitate the implementation of the reform for those who would lose the most on the conversion, in particular in view of the low performance and high debt. This proposal was unanimously endorsed by Stortinget. At the beginning of the year, the members of the Committee received numerous enquiries from the disabled, who were paid less after the introduction of the reform. The Committee therefore took the initiative to hold a debate on the implementation and follow-up of the reform in the EEA. The government has taken seriously the feedback from the disabled. In the context of the revised budget, the Government is now proposing to extend the transitional arrangements. With the proposal, approx. 10 000 more people who do not receive tax deductions, and the 30 000 who are already covered by the transitional scheme will receive additional tax relief. Still, some unsatisfied people with occupational pensions or other pensions that are not of popular concern will lose something on the reform, as described in Prop.1 LS for 2012–2013, presented by the Stoltenberg II government, from which I quoted. Those who want to get better out of the tax changeover are those with the lowest income: today's minimum pensioners with debts, low and medium non-pensioners who also receive occupational pensions, illiterate children's allowances and spouses at low rates on the special supplement. The implementation of the reform and the conversion of taxes are complex. It is not possible to get a full overview of the tax consequences and other consequences of the reform before the tax settlement for 2015 has been completed. Finally, I am pleased that the parties are united in this reform. All reforms involve changes and this reform affects many who live a difficult life. It is therefore important to monitor developments and take action if there are effects that become unreasonable — just as the government has done in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2043	The Norwegian economy is in a very demanding period. Many have lost their jobs, some are going to lose it in the future. Unemployment is for the first time in ten years over 4 pst. According to NHO’s economic report, many arrows are still pointing downwards. Today's Business yesterday we could read about the Right-Rapporteur in Stavanger, who is concerned about the crisis that the oil city is now in. We have to initiate measures," she says, and on her list is among other things. information technology, social security and preparedness, tourism and not least agriculture and food production. The rapporteur, Mr Stavanger, is speaking wisely. When we now examine the revised budget for 2015, there are several who have called for measures to stimulate the necessary conversion into Norwegian business. The working party therefore promotes proposals for a package for business development and conversion, an accelerator programme for entrepreneurs, which will help entrepreneurs through the critical phase between the development of business ideas and commercial operations – of many called the valley of death. In our 2015 alternative state budget, we proposed to set aside 250 million. NOK to this. Now we're going to go back to parts of this proposal. There's more to it than ever. The focus of the new knowledge-based bioeconomy is on bioeconomy and increased production and value creation within the food and forest value chains. This will be part of the solution to the global emissions and resource challenges we all face, while giving the mainland economy more weight to stand on. In our alternative budget, we proposed a separate forest package. We also proposed value creation measures, infrastructure measures and research and development, in order to make better use of the economic opportunities that we see in the forest. It is regrettable that no new rules on the taxation of the profits of forestry and agricultural property are introduced through the agreement that is under way today, but once again points out that this is going to happen. It is not often that we from the Workers' Party are fighting for tax relief, especially in this area, but here there is reason to act. Many are now sitting on the fence waiting for the notified changes. The turnover of properties has largely stopped, and that's why we put this into our alternative budget, and we're repeating the proposal today. We have also proposed that 'The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg asks the Government to adjust its mandate to Investinor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2058	Norway is a rusty country. Ever since the first refugees and immigrants came here in the 1960s, we have helped, arranged, adapted, accepted and put our common good and our welfare state at our disposal. We're still doing that, and as one of the richest countries in the world, we're going to keep doing that. The question is just to what extent. We're always talking about sustainability. But when it comes to accepting multicultural, some people think that the Norwegian welfare fund is like the Sarepta jar — that is, it's inexhaustible. I'm afraid it's very wrong. We experience great challenges when people who come to the country do not want to integrate. They bring with them large families, all of whom are to have kindergartens, school places, health services, a place and live and – unfortunately for many of them – Nav benefits. We're going to help, but this is about something more than showing who has the greatest heart, this is about how the Norwegian society is going to evolve and look out in the future, and how we're going to fund the welfare of everyone – a well-being paid by people in the world of work. According to the SSB statistics on employment among immigrants, Syrian immigrants had the lowest employment among all 136 individual countries covered by the statistics, with employment of 26.4 p.m. in the 15-74 age group in 2014. In the next four places at the bottom of the list, immigrants came with a background from Sudan, Yemen and Somalia who had an employment of between 26 p.m. and 30 pst. On the other hand, immigrants with a background from Sri Lanka had 70 pst., Poland 75 pst. and Sweden 80 pst. the highest level of employment. The proportion of persons employed is one of the most important integration indicators and is also one of the most important indicators used to calculate the costs of immigration by the SSB. The SSB and the Financial Newspaper have created an employment of 54 pst. in its estimate that the cost of living per non-Western migrants was 4.4 million. kr. In the estimate of the cost of living per Syrian immigrants by the SSB and the Financial Newspaper, the cost of living was 7 million. On average per person, it was assumed that acids had about the same employment as immigrants from Iraq. Immigrants from Iraq, however, had 43 p.m. jobs. in 2013, which increased to 45 pst. In 2014, therefore, employment among acids in 2014 was only 26 pst. This is also an element worthy of attention in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2079	The initial reform entered into force on 1 January of this year, adopted by a unanimous increase for two-part purpose – good income protection and easier to combine social security and work. The net benefit was to be about as before, but by the end of 2014, we received many enquiries from the victims who had received letters about the opposite. At the same time, the public debate was fresh about the budget for 2014, where the government, independent of the unfavourable reform, proposed cutbacks in child allowances, basic and auxiliary assistance and car arrangements. The fact that there were two parallel debates caused some confusion. The government parties fired under this confusion in an attempt to use the misreform to camouflage the unsocial cuts for 2015. The Labour Party was accused of not standing by the reform we ourselves had promoted, and left to the Right and the Advance Party to explain and inform. That's not true. On the contrary, last October we asked the Council of State written questions about what had actually been sent to the country's disability pensioners, and about this information was correct. The answer was that final information could not be provided until the tax regime for 2015 had been adopted. What was known was that misdemeanors with debts would lose, but that a transitional arrangement of more than three years was proposed to facilitate the transition for this group. Well and good, but there were – and are – still many unanswered questions. Is the Storting's assumption that most would come out as before, fulfilled or not? We in the Labour Party did not get all the answers we asked in the budgetary procedure for 2015. That is why we took the initiative to launch a wide-ranging debate in Stortinget, where both we and the Committee asked the government for relevant information in advance. We've got some numbers. We have been assured that no one will lose the housing allowance this year or next year. There was an extension of the debt regime in the RNB. There was more information in Stortinget last Wednesday, but we still do not see the overall picture, and we do not know what it could cost to compensate for any unintended effects. But every time we ask, we get a little bit more. That is why we have three proposals in the RNB where the government is asked to investigate the consequences of different loss limits, a lasting debt regime and the importance of increasing gross profit for rights and equity in other public schemes and services. Now the government parties will also have a new assessment in the 2016 budget for those with low performance. So every time we repeat our questions, we see a little movement in the right direction from the government, even if we're down here in the Storting. But we can't ask questions forever, so the government should now come up with an overview of the overall situation of disability, assessed against the assumptions of a unanimous increase that net performance should be approximated as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2092	It may brew up to an interesting summer if it is ‘understood by Norway’ that will be interesting. For Hedmark's part, I see in the RNB that it means removing the necessary funds to start with Rv. 325 and replace it with places of action. Then I am not afraid to take that discussion every day. We will create healthy jobs and not replace them with places of action. The Marthinsen said that the government is too late. Who's the one that's too late? In 2013, when this government joined, the need for conversion was announced, the budget presented by the red-greens was very strongly, in the direction of investing in transport, knowledge, nutrient research and development, and growth-promoting tax relief, and that solution stands today. I think in many ways the Labour Party could show the liberality that this is a very active industrial policy. It is the most effective industrial policy that can be pursued, and it should also be accepted that we are organising to create jobs, but there are actually individuals out there who are creating the new jobs. The challenge for the Norwegian economy has been greatly exacerbated by the fall in oil prices, but the message that this government has put its policy on is very good. Therefore, it is not surprising that last year's budget is also very good, especially in the context of nutrition. We meet a lot of businesses now, and the message is quite unanimous: we want more of what we've already received. We have gone from special position to conversion, and it was a pity the red-greens did not discover it when they themselves put in position. To Tvedt Solberg, who talked a lot about industrial policy, I would say that we have increased the funding for industrial research through FORNY, BIA, IFU/OFU contracts, SkattenFUNN and all the instruments we have, by 1 billion. kr. I now see that the red-greens benefit from the degree of freedom that this priority gives. When you see a historical tax increase as the solution to future problems, it's not as strange to give money to everything. But accelerator programs and everything – nothing was created when the red-greens themselves had the opportunities and the space for action to do it. I think the government is very good at the line you have, and it's a very good nutrition and very active industrial policy you're running. Put more on knowledge, focus more on nutrition research, focus on culture – that's what you want out there. We understand Norway, we want to renew, improve and simplify. I think that's also a message that stands out very well all summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2103	Despite record oil money consumption and record growth in bureaucracy, the Labour Party notes that the government is struggling to meet its health choices. It is about credibility towards the voters and about the ability to implement them. The government is actually 1 billion. kr behind their own election vows about hospitalization. Both the Workers' Party and the Right promised before the elections to increase the operating appropriations of the hospitals by 12 billion. kr during this four-year period. The Labour Party has delivered on its promises. If you get seriously ill, you need to be sure that you get the best treatment and that your treatment will get started quickly. Norwegian hospitals are constantly developing. Several patients are being treated, more diagnosis is being made, the waiting time is falling, and the quality is increasing. In Norway, over decades we have built strong public hospitals that have muscles to develop and renew as medical and technological advances take place. But the Workers' Party is concerned about the consequences of the promises that are not being followed up. We see that it also affects priority areas such as drugs and mental health protection. Health Bergen needs to reduce the activity of the Floen collective, which is one of the most successful drug treatment services aimed at young people under 30 years of age. In addition to the fact that the operating framework was not increased as expected, we see that the government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, has instructed that the increase in drug treatment facilities should only go to private institutions. The question is whether this is about freedom of choice, when you don't have the option to choose the best offer, which is incidentally in the public domain. The government also warns that they are unable to start their own performance project – free treatment choice – during this year. The government’s government’s efforts to finance municipal care for the elderly have also been postponed — until 1 May next year. This was one of the most important electoral promises of the Advance Party. The EUR 9 billion from the opposition time of the Progress Party has now been reduced to EUR 9 million. to investigate attempts by the State to assume responsibility for the care of the elderly from local authorities. The government still chooses not to earmark funds for school health, although they know that most municipalities do not use the increase to strengthen school health. More and more young people are struggling with mental health, and the earlier they get help, the more likely they are to get well, and others avoid developing severe, heavy disorders. That's why the Workers' Party believes, despite being very restrictive in governing the municipalities, that it is right to earmark funds for school health in an escalation phase. Children have their whole lives ahead of them, and school health is a good low-threshold service that reaches everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2118	The progress party wants to help where the help is whenever possible. While we want to spend 1 billion. In order to help 1 million refugees in the neighbourhoods, the estimates presented in the proposal show that the majority will spend 95,2 billion. DKK to help 13,600 people in Norway — including family reunification. I think again that it must be good to have Sarepta's jar, as I mentioned in my previous post. It is also not politically correct to question the country's immigration, refugee and integration policies. We've got a consensus society where no one dares to stand out, be different and ask the questions that are needed. That's why the Progress Party takes on that task. It is strange that the inbox is blown, the phones ring and the text messages tick in from people who express support for what the Progress Party believes in this matter. Common to many of them is that they don't dare to say it out loud. It can have consequences for friendship, work, family and other social relationships. It is not legitimate to point out that, over 40 years, there have been wild roads in this policy area. Allow me to remind you that Carl I. In the 1970s, Hagen warned about how immigration would affect Norway. Unfortunately, the Norwegian people – or the political majority – did not listen to his warnings. That's why we now see a segregated Oslo, the North moving out of Groruddalen at record speed. We see schools on the east of Oslo with 99 pst. percentage of multicultural students. In my home municipality, Modum in Buskerud, the other day, a 19 - year - old refugee was admitted to a family reunion. As a result, his parents and ten siblings came to the municipality on Sunday. They moved into a building where the municipality had recently thrown out several of the village's older residents, even though they wanted to stay there. That one refugee becomes 13 might not be normal. But when this happens, it helps challenge the infrastructure of municipalities in all areas, because there are already 5,300 people in Norwegian reception – waiting for housing. So the majority in this room will receive 8,000 more people. Then the family reunions. The question of referendum has already been shot down by those who do not dare to let the Norwegian people say their opinion on this matter. When you look at the numbers of votes in the many online votes that have been, it is easy to understand that you are afraid that the result of a referendum would give a majority for the vision of the Progress Party – and it would probably be difficult to swallow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2135	Norway is on its way from specialty to conversion. Fortunately, we had a government shift two years ago, and with it a government that shows in practical policy that conversion and competitiveness are the most important to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. The previous eight years of reform drought are a strong contrast and a gloomy monument to lost opportunities. We will lower the tax for those who create and invest in Norwegian jobs. The workers' party's response to the companies that are currently struggling is to notify large tax increases in the years to come. In the revised national budget, the government proposes a strong anti-terrorism package. The appropriations are increasing by nearly 130 million. to the police, the criminal services and the municipalities. The funds should be used to strengthen the preparedness of the PST and the Oslo Police, and they will provide a reinforced response to radicalisation and violent extremism. The threat picture has intensified, and developments are worrying, and there is a need to strengthen efforts directed at foreign fighters and radicalisation. There are more and more people who have emigrated from Norway to Syria or Iraq to participate in battles as foreign fighters. Dark figures are assumed to be significant. Extreme Islamism, according to PST, is one of the greatest threats to Norway. At the same time, allocations to the Oslo Police are increased by 38.8 million. kr to strengthen police preparedness and watchkeeping. This is necessary in order for the increased preparedness not to go beyond other important police tasks. Oslo, with all its institutions, is in a very special position in relation to the rest of the country. The government also proposes to grant 10 million. to the efforts of the municipalities to combat radicalisation and violent extremism. Many municipalities want to follow-up, but have requested funds for local projects. This will be met by the government now. It is gratifying that these important proposals have been accepted in the course of the Grand Duchy's proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2150	The representative Tajik's deep dive in the quotation book with quotations from former Social-Democratic Koryfeer on how to deal with the crisis, in fact, lacked the most important thing, namely Tage Erlander: we can't decide out of the crisis, we have to work out of the crisis. It is a never-small mystery and an unanswered question why the Workers' Party is so little occupied by the many people who are outside the labour market. The slogan ‘All the people at work’ should perhaps dry the dust off there in the farm to find its old offensive labour policy. It is totally unacceptable for some people and groups to realize that they have almost a moral duty to resort to blatant violence in order to achieve their political and religious goals. In 2014, 18 000 people were affected by terrorism. 70 pst. of these have their origins in Al Qaida. The government is taking the threat of terror seriously. There are two tracks to follow: the prevention trail and the criminal trail. And the government does. As the representative Werp mentioned in his statement, the government strengthens the PST with 35 posts in order to be able to deal better with the problem of foreign fighters. But the problem is that when these people get to the PST radar, it's often too late. This is why prevention is so overly important that it is done in a good way. Prevention is simply a weakening of the recruitment base through concrete measures taken by the government in the 30-point action plan presented, and also a plan that has been noticed by the international community. It is assumed that 70 people have travelled from Norway as foreign fighters. It is assumed that approx. 15 has been killed, and 30 has returned. Norway has a disproportionate proportion of foreign fighters compared with the Muslim population. That is why prevention is so important. When young people change their way of being, change their clothes, and begin to fester totalitarian ideas, there is reason for the community to be on guard. Several municipalities have started a very good prevention work. This is no longer an Oslo phenomenon, but it is a problem over the whole country. That's why the government is setting 10 million. the municipalities can apply for in the prevention work related to radicalisation and violent extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2163	I'd say that if it hadn't been so serious, this could have been good entertainment. We've seen this before outside the main hall, but today we've seen it in the main hall. After all, the FrP code has become a political concept, and we've known it for a long time, but we've almost had it presented more clearly today than in a very long time and in a very special context. It's about saying one thing and doing something else. There are many examples. In the final analysis, we've seen it as, for example, have been revealed during the management of the retirement stop, where the Progress Party group had a different arrangement than the Government. Then it came to the public, and then it was revealed. Today we have got a new example, and as I think is more serious than much else in that way. The Minister of Finance, the head of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, says in a reply to the representative Syversen that she will not discuss here in the Chamber whether the cooperation agreement is broken or not. In particular, it's an honest thing to say that it gets the parties to discuss between themselves. I get it. But what is my concern is that immediately afterwards – here in the main hall – the representative Tybring-Gjedde goes to the Right parliamentary leader, Greece, and claims without censorship here in the Chamber that the Right has broken the government agreement, and undermines the government's policy, as he says. There is no one else in the Progress Party who is calling for anything else. Parliamentary leader is absent, and that may be a good reason for it – at least he is absent – and Finance Minister Siv Jensen is sitting and looking down, now as he is. There's a situation that calls for three reflections. One reflection is that either there is no control in the Progress Party, that there is a culture that is not under control, or that there is a conscious way to act, and the last reflection is in many ways the most serious: how long does the Right manage to find itself in such a behaviour from its government partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2172	Some today have tried to create the impression that there has become more property tax since the Progress Party came into government. Let me make it clear once and for all: the Progress Party is against property taxes and has, at Stortinget, previously made proposals to remove the entire property tax law. Municipal property taxes are unreasonable because you pay the same amount of property taxes regardless of how much you owe to a dwelling. For example, young people and families with children with 85 pst. mortgages pay as much property taxes as those that have been paid off their mortgages. Some minimum pensioners are on some large properties that have increased enormously in value over the last 20 years. The property tax presents these minimum pensioners with great challenges of being able to pay more in taxes than they can actually afford. The property tax is and will be a double tax, because the money you have invested in housing is already taxed. There was a large red-green increase in the number of municipalities with property taxes. From 2007 to 2013, the number of municipalities with property taxes increased from 272 to 330, an increase of 58 municipalities. Over a longer period, there has been an increase of about ten municipalities per year. It has not been municipal elections since the Progress Party came into government. It is therefore quite natural that the increase in the number of municipalities with property taxes continued in 2014 and 2015. It would be strange if the trend were suddenly to change with a new government, given that it is the same municipal politicians who are sitting today. On Thursday, the government sent a consultation proposal to exempt work machines from the property tax base of the municipalities. This is part of the Sundvolden Declaration, and we've been waiting for it to be implemented. That this is now being sent out to the hearing, we are very pleased. These are changes that can provide tax relief for enterprises that need to be seen as a handshake to businesses in a challenging economic time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2185	It's just as hollow either the Advance Party laughs crocodile tears at themselves because they're guilty of them, or they laugh at those who can't afford it. If there had been any team in the Progress Party now concerned, they would not have put forward a tax policy where only they have the very largest income and wealth that gets tax relief. SV has submitted a tax policy in which everyone with income below SEK 600 000 gets several thousand in tax bills. That's the way we have to go, because that's what's right and fair, whether it's employees or pensioners. There has been very little tension in what should be called the government's conversion package. It's because there's very little action there. One is that this tax policy does not work. The second is that many young people now have neither a place of work nor a place of work, and we now heard that the Minister of Knowledge thought they should not have a place of study. SV has proposed that all young people without a school place or job should be entitled not to leave. Not as the government has proposed, that there should be coercive labour for social assistance, but that they have not put in one krona to implement measures in the local economy. That'll make it more youth unemployment. That young person is going to have to echo the difficult situation on the labour market we have now, and they are going to go along with it. It is fully possible to put money on the table so that the youth will not be free to walk, and that makes SV. There is a need for a conversion package, especially on forests. Anything you can make out of oil, you can make out of wood. Conversion is needed both for traditional wood use and for industrial wood use. Long-term efforts need to be made to ensure that not the raw material is now only exported and provides jobs in other countries. We have to get part of it. That's what SV suggests. Finally, the government gives to the great and strong and the rich and takes away from the small. They also do not provide for a good rural policy. For example, our government started a large archive project on Thinset – many jobs, long-term, many jobs in the start-up phase. Now this government has provided many budgets. The project has finished. Nothing has come about now either, but the speculations are of course about whether the government really intends to put this project elsewhere and fail the promises that the Storting has made and that the government has given. I expect the government now to solve the matter and that the archival campaign on Tynset will begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2198	It was claimed here, by the representative Tom E.B. Holthe, that the Progress Party is against property tax. Then you may not be quite able to see the effect of your own policy, because then it's stupid to introduce a kind of policy that results in something you say you're against, that's more property tax. So there were 24 new municipalities last year with property taxes in Norway. The Progress Party and the Right in Bergen introduce property tax because it is simply too little money. Siv Jensen says that this selects the municipalities themselves and does it because they want to do it. Tom E. B. Holthe clearly believed that there was a red-green trend that had started, and that it was difficult to finish before the new municipal elections. I think the Progress Party should continue to argue that way and try to explain the reality, because I think people out there, who live in the municipalities, who are in and run the municipalities, who get welfare services from the municipalities, understand better. They understand that it is the government's poor community structure that leads to poorer welfare services, and they realize that it is the poor government's municipal structure and the priority of them with the largest assets in Norway that require the introduction of property taxes in their municipality, but for all things: the Progress Party would like to continue to explain this way. That, I think, creates enormous confidence in the population. I was accused by the representative Fleet of not getting to know Øystein Thøgersen, despite what I almost did, was quoting Thögersen. According to the Fleet, he's not critical of what the government is doing. It's a little strange, considering that he's writing something like the faster you phase oil money into the economy now, the more you have to cut in the future. That is exactly what has also been part of the Workers' Party's criticism. When this government on every crossroads has chosen to spend more oil money, it becomes harder to keep it running because we see that we can't take as much money out of the oil fund as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2207	I note that the State Council of Jensen has so far not followed my call to inform Stortinget today in this debate on when the government intends to submit a proposal on the DA scheme, which was announced in June 2014. It was perhaps a rash of inconvenient Northern Norwegian optimism. However, we see that the government in the municipality's 2016 proposal has also not chosen to find a permanent scheme for municipalities and municipalities that have problems with boating and ferrying due to the conversions in the income system for the municipal sector. This must be an expression of a lack of understanding of the challenges in the districts. If, on the other hand, this is an expression of political will, the warning lights should begin to flash even more strongly around, because the consequences are coming. We are talking about poorer services, and we are talking about the closure of ferry routes and boat routes. Finally, I would like to call on the government once again to assess the various regional policy instruments in an overall context and to explain historical developments and the government's long-term plans for the further development of regional policy instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2217	It is very good that I come right after the representative Bell Ljunggren, because they cannot stand out in spite of the claims that are made here from the pulpit, that the government does not deliver in terms of the compensatory measures, which differentiated the employer's fee gave us. There is no disagreement that the system of differentiated employer charges is a good system, which hit business in the areas concerned well. However, the legislation/regulation was amended by the EU in the summer of 2013, on the watch of the Workers’ Party. It seems that the representative from Northern Ireland has not come to realize that it is not the government that has amended the legislation, but the EU. The new regional aid guidelines do not allow aid to be granted, inter alia: the energy, transport and financial sectors. However, the government has provided a number of compensatory measures to respond to the challenges encountered by the industries concerned after the conversion. The different compensatory measures are also assessed in the 2014-2015 Report in St. Meld 2 as well, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Free-for-all schemes for all excluded sectors: the free-for-all scheme means that employers do not, however, have to pay an increased levy up to a given free-for-all amount. [[de minimis aid]] [[...]] The measure is therefore considered to be targeted.’;» In the case of compensation through net pay schemes, the notification states: ‘The contribution to the employment of seafarers compensates shipping companies by an estimated 80 million. krones in 2015. As this is a direct compensation for the increased employer’s fee, the measure is considered to be targeted.» Also in the case of county purchasing of transport services, the measure is considered to be targeted. Furthermore, the message states: «Infrastructure measures in North Norway and state purchases of transport services: compensation in the form of infrastructure measures and increased government purchases of passenger transport services of EUR 1.6 billion has been provided. SEK in the period 2014-2018. In 2015, it was allocated a total of 415 million. crowns for these purposes.» So the government has delivered a number of compensatory measures, which also take business in North Norway well. Otherwise, I need to say that things are going very well in Northern Ireland, and then it's important that we, as representatives from North and North Norway, make this picture clear. We have challenges in many places in Norway, but in North Norway we are doing well, and we are going to be ambassadors to show that things are going well in North Norway. Of course, we have to take inwards that we too may face challenges, but then the measures shown by the government in terms of structural measures are important. There is a lot of road built in Northern and North Norway, and even more is being built. It's good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2243	For a long time, there has been a warning against increasing unemployment and a fall in employment. We have the highest number of unemployed in 20 years, and youth unemployment is approaching 10 pst. When we know that the path from youth unemployment to long-term unemployment is short, one can no longer have a waiting and looking attitude to the situation, one actually has to put in place active measures. For young people who are long-term unemployed, it is easy to lose confidence and faith in the future. From an individual perspective as well as from a socio-economic perspective, this is worrying. We know that going out of work is personally stressful, and it has turned out in other countries that when young people fall out, the way back is very long. In addition, when there is a real risk of this unemployment breaking down, it will not pay off in any situation. It is particularly serious that the government has for a long time been warned about this, without taking the warnings seriously. It is alarming to me that this has not caused neither involvement nor action by the government, and that the few measures taken have been tax cuts based on ideological reasons and have had a far-reaching opposite effect to what the labour market needs. The main focus must be on building up the skills of young people and not on tax cuts, in order to avoid persistent youth unemployment and to keep young people out of work. These tax cuts, which seem to provide the necessary transformation and growth in the economy, are not enough, especially when the government has so far failed to demonstrate that they actually have a real effect. We need to have measures for the labour market, we need to set up several action areas, and we need to give young people clear priority at Nav. We need to strengthen efforts by establishing our own posts for contact persons with closer follow-up of youth at the main Nav offices. We also need to facilitate support for intra-corporate training, to ensure more flexible day-to-day pay legislation and to ensure that even more people with reduced working capacity complete higher education. These are only part of the Workers' Party's action package on increasing youth unemployment. Unfortunately, a large number of people are going to vote against this. In the Workers' Party we see that more than ideological tax cuts are needed to maintain employment in the future, but unfortunately the government's learning curve seems to point in the same direction as the employment curve. We have to give young people back their faith in the future, and they do not get that through this revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2256	This debate I think is and becomes a bit strange sight. We have a situation in the country with over 100,000 unemployed and alarmingly high youth unemployment. At the same time, we have a situation in this room where the government does not provide any concrete action, and the representatives of the government and the government parties are sitting quietly and not responding to quite as concrete challenges from representatives after representatives. One post where one says one agrees on the serious situation, one thinks it is serious for people who lose their jobs, but so far there are no representatives from the government parties who have been able to point out some concrete measures on how to follow up. Clearly, the representative of Nordby Lunde has not read the Workers' Party's draft revised national budget. There are concrete new measures, which she calls for, and how she can vote for, but which the Right ends up voting against. One is talking about our eight years of shine in government. I will agree with Nordby Lunde that it was a fine year, but one forgets – after all – that there was a financial crisis during this period, and despite this, our government managed to create over 350 000 new jobs, two thirds in the private sector. Together with the representative Heggelund, Nordby Lunde talks about the growth of jobs, how important it is, and forgets that now, on its own guard, the growth in jobs is fed up and almost gone, after only two years of blue-blue government. If there's an idea dryer that's why there's no new action coming from the government in their budget, I'm happy to borrow a desk at Youngstorget to Heggelund and Nordby Lunde so that they can come to us and learn some new ideas about some concrete proposals. I repeat that it is a serious response to the over 100 000 unemployed in Norway that the country's government is now sitting completely silent and does not meet them with any concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2265	First, a few comments to the many people in the Chamber who are amazed that the local economy is so bad, and who are calling on the state to get more money, not least the representative Schlagsvold Vedum, who has been very eager about this, and who owes it to the Advance Party for it to be property tax. What you might want to do is analyze where this money actually goes. Why is it that more and more municipalities are struggling and struggling and not getting the money and ends to stretch to or to meet? It might be a better analysis. What are the expenditure items of the municipalities? It could have been interesting to see. At least I know where Oslo has its biggest expenses. Then to the representative of Kolberg, who with the usual dramatic mines and law of order lectures the hall on how to behave. I'm not going to mention what the representative Kolberg said to me in the tunnel today – it's probably not fair to say that – about what would happen to a worker party representative who had said what I had said, but he might have to talk to the media about later. But the standard thing for Kolberg is that he never talks about it. He never talks matters; he's just concerned about the game; the game is the most important thing for Kolberg. Then, of course, it's very serious for Kolberg, it's dramatic, it's a game he's never seen before, he's never seen it before, and it's dramatic, etc. It's like Kolberg's mantra. Well, then the question is, is there a breach of the agreement? Yes, there is a breach of the agreement. I have the agreement here, it can all read, according to page 23 there is a breach of the agreement. It says that the four parties will agree on any changes, not on Jonas Gahr Støre. There is nothing about Jonas Gahr Støre, in fact, in this agreement. So it's a breach of the agreement. And then the question is, is the severity of the breach large enough to respond? That's the question. There is no doubt that it is a breach. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right have broken this agreement, so the question is whether the severity is so great. One could imagine a situation in which Jonas Gahr Støre invited to raise the wealth tax just a little bit, and the Progress Party sat down and presented it as a majority solution to its government partner. It wouldn't have been taken up very cheerfully, and that's why we don't take up this very cheerfully as presented by the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. That the Workers' Party, SV, the Green Party is involved in this – and the Centre Party, so far – is very understandable, but that our government partner does it is not pleasant. There's going to be a scratch in the paint for the Right, and it's clear it's problematic for our big group when this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2276	Actually in many ways this is not my case. This is a matter of the relationship between the Progress Party and the Right, which we get so clearly demonstrated here, and which is now considerably reinforced through the last article that Tybring-Gjedde held. He says the agreement is broken, and that the right is acting in breach of the agreement. That is what I also heard in the first part of this debate, and that is why I noticed that I find it strange that neither the Prime Minister, who was then present in the Chamber, nor the Finance Minister, Siv Jensen, who has been here all day, comments on Tybring-Gjedde's comments. Does this mean – and this is important for Stortinget to know – that it is believed that this government agreement is broken, or is it not? Speaks Tybring-Wanted himself authorized, or does he not? I believe that Stortinget has a right to know. Of course, since none of the authorised representatives from the Right and the Advance Party choose to speak, it becomes very unclear to us what the situation is. To Leirstein I would like to say that we are fully aware that the Progress Party has a different policy. We know that. It's become very clear. I heard very clearly what Tybring-Gjed also said in his reason for that. I chose not to comment on the content of this article in the first article, and I will now refrain. Because I don't want to go into the actual arguments, and especially not in the form. I think there were a lot of people who should really take responsibility for going into the form of what Tybring-Gjede said. At least I didn't get a good feeling, and I don't think there are so many others here in the Storting either that got it, to say it that way. So it just remains to be said that since it seems not to be such that some more will comment on what Tybrung-Gjede has also said in his last post, we have to choose between what the Progress Party believes, is that the Right has broken the Government Agreement, or that he is simply not taken solemnly, so that it is not authorized. Finally, I would say that he referred to a conversation we had in the tunnel, where he, Tybring-Gjedde, said he would not tell me what I said. I'll say what I said because he doesn't want to. I said, ‘If any of the Workers’ Party had behaved that way, they would have been taken by the poster.’ It should be more thinking about, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2294	One of the issues that has been much discussed in connection with the revised national budget of the year is the tax failure we see in Norwegian municipalities. I also want to challenge Tybring-Gjedde on the costs in Norwegian municipalities. It's just reading COSTRA numbers to look at what costs actually go to. What you can see then is that the biggest expenditures go to care and the elderly – as many thought, at least those who voted the Advance Party before the elections, were the main issues of the Advance Party. That's why it's so amazing that the Progress Party sits so still, sits so calm, and looks at the tax failure we had last year at 2.7 billion. kr, and the tax failure we're about to have this year, which, if one of the SSB's plotters, is equal to 2.8 billion. SEK – a tax failure of 5.5 billion. NOK 2 in 2 years. And then you can sit here in the Storting and think that it has no consequence. But of course it has a consequence. One consequence is that we have never had as much property tax as we have in Norway now. Many municipalities see that the budgets do not go together, and they do not want to carry out as much cuts in old age care as they will have to if they do not increase property taxes. That's why there's a historically high level of property taxes on ordinary people's houses now. When Tybring-Gjedde, Siv Jensen and the Advance Party sit and rule our country, property taxes increase at record speed. So that's one consequence. The second consequence is that many municipalities now have to cut the quality of care for the elderly – a little here, a little there – in order to get the budgets going. When new numbers have come from the SSB this week, which shows that the tax failure is greater than the government thought, it's strange that the Progress Party, trying to pretend to be occupied with the elderly, doesn't mention it in one word, doesn't worry at all. But on the other hand, the Progress Party boasts violently that it is set at 20 million. kr for a State test – 20 mill. kr, it's nothing. A small Norwegian municipality has an elderly budget of about 100 million. kr. However, it is the great victory of the Advancement Party that one has received 20 million. kr. I do not understand that you dare to say it out loud once – when it has so little impact – when we see the situation we have in Norwegian municipalities now. So that debate on local economy will be about whether we want a decent care and care, or not. That's what we in the Center Party want. That is why we have spent more money on the municipalities in the revised national budget. That's why we added more money before Christmas, and that's why we're so critical of the record increase we also see in property taxes. Norwegian municipalities should not be forced to introduce property taxes at the record time they are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2307	There is broad consensus in the UK about the proposal presented by six parliamentary leaders here today, and it is not really crucial for me or the others, I think, whether this is interpreted as a breach of the agreement between the government and the two cooperation parties, formally speaking. It's only interesting really if that doubt can raise questions about whether the government will implement what's decided in the Storting, or not. I have to say that we have to show the integrity of the negotiations that have been held, but I want to say – and it is really not my job to clarify whether there is a breach of that agreement, i.e. between the four, because I have not concluded it – that when the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party informed us others that he would withdraw the negotiations, he did so in a very neat way. It was understood that this was not an agreement that the Progress Party could agree to. That's okay. He then said nothing that there was a breach of the agreement that the six others continued to negotiate, and he gave the impression that the Progress Party would deal with that agreement. So what we really have to deal with then is not just a split of the Progress Party, but it's a three-fold split. And then it starts to get complicated in physics. Is it the Progress Party in the government that's talking? Is it the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats, by a parliamentary leader who is absent from this debate, who is speaking? Or are those who have spoken for the Progress Party here today, and who are promoting proposals for a referendum, against the government? The earplugs I got from the Progress Party on the way in, so people would put them in their ears so they wouldn't listen to me, I passed on to the finance minister. She had not got them. I don't know if she's been using them, or if she's been following the debate. But the members of the government are entitled to speak here in this debate. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: If this decision goes through in Stortinget, promoted by the six parliamentary leaders, will the members of the Government of the Advance Party deal with them, based on the majority in the Grand Duchy? Or is there reason to ask questions about it, in the light of the very vagueness we have about what the Progress Party believes as a party and a big group?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2318	First of all, the question of Syria refugees. On the part of the Christian People's Party, there is reason to recall the following: it was the Prime Minister who explained in this Chamber the government's position on this, while inviting a dialogue with the parties of the Storting on what we should do in three fields: what we should do in the neighbourhoods, what we should do in Norway, and also on the issue of the boat refugees in the Mediterranean and the challenges we have seen in that context. We went into those negotiations with the aim of getting as broad a majority as possible based on the fact that all parties have slightly different starting points. We are very pleased with the agreement and the broad consensus that is the result of the invitation that the Prime Minister made on behalf of the government. In the change of line with the Minister of Finance before today, the Minister of Finance would not answer if she considered this to be a breach of the cooperation agreement. As such, the cooperation agreement is not a theme for this Chamber, but of course it is indirect in this matter. What she said, and that's what we're dealing with, is that the government is dealing with the decisions taken in this room. I take that as a confirmation that this is being followed up, and loyally followed up, in line with the decision of the Storting. I do not need to polish further on who has broken or not broken the agreement, but I find that first of all it is a challenge, not to say a problem, for the two parties that make up the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2333	I am just taking the floor to give Siv Jensen the opportunity – for another 3 minutes, perhaps shorter – to clarify the question she was asked by Jonas Gahr Støre: Is it such that we can expect that the agreement adopted here in the Grand Duchy today will be followed up by the Minister of Finance himself and by the members of the Government of the Progress Party, or do they also share the position expressed by the representative Tybring-Gjedde here in the Chamber, that the agreement is broken? Is the agreement broken? Can you then choose not to follow up? And no downgrading of Hans Olav Syversen, but I also think it is special that it is he who, on behalf of the government, must indirectly confirm what the Greatness can assume will be the attitude of the Advance Party, and what the Advance Party is going to do in government. It's a little strange when the Minister of Finance sits here and has been sitting here since noon. 9.00 and followed the debate. She has been involved in what can be called the cycle of obligations – one post, answers to replies – but in addition to this, the Minister of Finance has not chosen to engage in his own affairs here, nor has she chosen to respond to the challenges that have been posed to this difficult question about Syria. So I hope – I see that Siv Jensen has now signed up – that we can get the answer that I think Stortinget deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2340	It is absolutely right that I have been sitting and following this debate all day, not least because most of the debate has been about the economic situation for Norway and the challenges we face through the transition challenge we now have. I clearly underlined in my speech that in order to meet it it is important to have an economic policy that responds to those expectations, and I have said that on behalf of the government that we do. So to the questions that have been asked at the bottom of the debate. I basically responded to them during the line change earlier today. I replied to paragraph 1, that the government follows up the decisions of the Stortinget, and I answered paragraph 2, that if there are any questions relating to a cooperation agreement concluded between different parties, it does not belong in the Stortinget, it belongs between the four parties. If there's any disagreement, and if there's any confusion, we take it between the four parts and not in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2361	No one has asked for the floor. Before calling to vote, State Council Siv Jensen will transfer 8 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2374	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2382	A total of 42 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposals No. 3-15, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 16-18, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 19–39, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 40, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposals No. 41 and 42, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens. The President will first address proposal No. 40, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. A similar proposal was voted on in Stortinget on Monday. The President has reason to believe that the Stortinget will nevertheless address the proposal for voting, and will therefore propose that the proposal be considered in accordance with Section 79 of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Workers' Party, from the Right Party, from the Advance Party, from the Christian Party, from the Central Party, from the Left Party, from the Socialist Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the effect of the regulation on LLR reporting measured against the Stortingen’s objective of making undesired tax adjustment visible and to ensure that relevant information related to the LLR reporting by subsidiaries and third-country support functions appears in the accounts. The majority also asks the government to consider how to establish the supervision of Reportable Persons under the LLR Code.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2425	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41 and 42, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the rules of action so that the use of oil money over the State budget is managed as a proportion of the value added [[GDP]] Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the rules of action so that the use of oil money is increasingly driven by the green shift in Norway.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e2449	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–23, 26, 29 and 32–35, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: 4049 promotion, cultural and information purposes can be transferred, can be used under heading 1, increased by 16 000 000from NOK 38 136 000 to NOK 54 136 000163Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights70Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by 650 000 000 from NOK 3 339 042 000 to NOK 3 989 942000 to NOK 176 94 000601Research activities, research etc.21Special operating costs, reduced by 19 400 000 from NOK 67 108 000 to NOK 708 0005Works and welfare opportunities1Drafts can be channelled from EUR 180 942000 to DKK 176 96 000 [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[HFC]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2015, Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 15 December 2014 on the CO2 levy on mineral products is amended as follows: (a) mineral oil at NOK 1,10 per litre. [[(general rate):]] Mineral oil – for domestic aviation subject to quota: kr 1,25 per litre, – for other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: kr 1,25 per litre, – for the wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industry: kr 0,51 per litre, – for fishing and catching in close waters: kr 0,47 per litre, – for use in fuel: kr 1,29 per litre, b) petrol: kr 1,15 per litre, c) natural gas: kr 1,02 per Sm3, d) LPG: kr 1,43 per kg.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2015, Decision of the Stortinge Decision of 15 December 2014 on the charging of motor vehicles, etc. is amended as follows: A. Single fee for the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5068	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24, 30, 31 and 36–38, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘§ 1 As from 1 September 2015, Law 19 May No. 11 on excise duty is paid to the State Treasury on acquisition flights from Norwegian airports with NOK 100 per ticket. The Ministry may lay down rules on what is to be considered as acquisition flight and on the limitation of the charge obligation. § 2 Exemptions are granted for: (a) flight of the air carrier's staff on duty. b) flight of children under 2 years of age. c) flight of transit and transfer passengers, if the journey is directly related to other flights. The exemption shall not apply to flights referred to in point (d) directly related to other taxable journeys. d) flight of crew to and from facilities or facilities on the continental shelf of the North Sea in connection with the exploitation of natural occurrences there. (e) The Ministry may provide for implementing, delimiting and conditions for exemption. § 3 In case of doubt as to the scope of the fee obligation, the question is decided by the Ministry. § 4 The Ministry may exempt or reduce the fee when individual cases or situations were not considered when the fee decision was taken and when, in the specific case, the fee has an unintended effect.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2015 may impose commitments on the State beyond the financial year of up to 400 million. crowns for investments in the construction of a full-scale marine wind demonstration plant.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for technology-driven renewable energy and technology support schemes for deployment in 2020 in the context of the 2016 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to authorise municipalities to set themselves the level of locally introduced heavy duty tyres.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to grant several different rates to municipalities to choose from when introducing a high-deck charge.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government asks to change the target of the one-off charge from 85 grams of CO2 per km to 9 out of 10 new cars sold in 2020 to be zero-emission cars.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5140	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the re-priority of racial protection funds to be re-evaluated along the E16 in Hordaland for the re-balancing of the State budget for 2015 and requests that funds be allocated to planned priority projects in Hordaland for the financial year 2016.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5157	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25, 27 and 28, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that oil companies rapidly use free rigging capacity to permanently study wells that are currently temporarily under study on a Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: «The Government is asked to impose stricter requirements on the use of apprentices as a condition of public tender.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities and county councils include more apprentices in their welfare services.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5186	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: 117EEA financial instruments75EØS2400 000 spent,60000 000 spent, may be transferred, reduced by 340 000 000 from NOK 2 350 000 to NOK 2 010 000 00076The Norwegian funding mechanism 2009–2014 can be transferred, reduced by 340 000 000 from NOK 2 150 000 000 to NOK 1 810 000 000 000315Freedom of use82More value-added compensation for the construction of sports facilities, increased by 75 000 000 from kr 100 018 000 to kr 175 018 000 from kr 175 018 000413Government courts1Operating expenditure, increased by 3 000 000 000552National regional development measures, may be transferred, increased by 93 500 000 from kr 486 650 000 from kr 48 650 000 to kr 580 150 000 from NOK 50 000 from municipalities, increased by 2 000 500 000 from kr from kr 115 236 851 000 to NOK 117 237 351 0002Ram from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 to NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 500 to NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK [[NY]] The Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, granted by 13100 000 000................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5738	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2016 is asked to explain how new guidelines for the location of State jobs outside Oslo are being followed up and what results have been achieved with the new guidelines for the location of state jobs.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5755	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to impose normal taxation on the sale of agricultural and forest property out of the family as soon as possible.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e5772	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 10, 11, 13 and 15, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2015 is amended as follows: 21Stat Council1Operating expenditure, increased by 4 90000 000 from €154 549 000Universities and universities50Statial universities and colleges, increased by 97 100000 from €29 829 046 000 to €29 950 000 from €29 950 000270International mobility and social purpose for students75Contributions to student housing may be transferred, increased by 17 10 000 from €40 80000 to €40 000 from the national museum network, increased by 5 500 000 from €50 000 to €Kr12 000 from €10 000 from €210 216 000 to €220 676 000 from €10 000 from €20 676 000 to €100 000 from €30 000 from the national museum network, increased by €50 000 from €30 000 to €10 9 000 from €10 2 0 082 525 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 2 097 000 from €10 607 676 000 from €30 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 3 097 000 from €30 000 from €30 3 097 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30, from €30, from €10 000 from €30 9 098 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €10 000 from €10, from €10, from €10 000 from €30, from €30, from €10 000 from €30, from €10, from €10, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30 000 from €30, from € 309 000 from € 309 000 from € 309 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from € [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of today’s active teaching vessel, Gann and Sea Course, under a new net pay regime for sailing ships.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size refers to the current situation in the offshore market and asks the government to consider extending the net pay regime for seafarers to offshore vessels.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the consequences of extending or making permanent the transitional arrangements for debtors with debts beyond three years.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an impact assessment to the Storing of the proposed changes to the Central Health Administration, with the exception of the proposal for the creation of a new Directorate for E-Health, before a conversion is implemented. The analysis must explain how a reorganisation strengthens the quality of management, that conversion is not likely to lead to new increases in the number of health bureaucrats, that the costs of conversion will be calculated, where there is efficiency or other benefits to be derived, and how conversion can be carried out without affecting patients — in particular with regard to the conversion of complaints.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6520	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the unforeseeable effects of the unforeseeable reform and any costs at different alternative loss limits of 0, 1000, 2000 or 3000 kroner, in the case of the debt regime, and in the case of other potential unforeseen losses.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6537	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 to 8 and 14, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the appropriate follow-up of the Youth Plan and ensure that young people in the 20-29 group are given priority by Nav.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that the day-to-day payment code is more flexible so that more young people can obtain the opportunity to complete secondary education.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take appropriate steps to distort measures aimed at young people with disabilities so that they can complete secondary education.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rolling leave legislation so that the company only pays the employer’s period for the number of posts actually allowed.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests a reduction in the electricity charge for data centres with power requirements above 5 MW as from 1 July 2015.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the consequences as a result of increased gross social security contributions to municipal and state ownership, support schemes and services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6582	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the mandate of the Investinor so that the forest resources can be invested in both the early stage, the expansion phase and the mature stage, provided that the requirements set for yield and other investment criteria are met.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6599	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownDestinationsCrones2445Statebuilding34The continuation of currant projects, may be transferred, increased by204 000 000from NOK 450 000 to NOK 654 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6663	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2015 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones1610Customs and fees allowance1Operating expenditure, reduced by 1 200 000from NOK 1 542 392 000 to NOK 1 541 192 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e6724	Then we go to the vote proposal for a decision, and now when we're going to vote over it, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and partly complicated voting. It is under the clear condition that it is not used against them on a later occasion. We then vote collectively on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e19294	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway receives 10,000 Syrian refugees by the end of 2016.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its economic efforts in Syria’s neighbourhoods in the draft state budget for 2016. The budget calls for financial efforts not to be proposed financed through cuts in other parts of the aid budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e19332	The proposal of the representative shall read as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e20225	The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e20238	The following proposals shall be put to the vote: ‘Document 8:135 S [[2014-2015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e20985	The following proposals shall be put to the vote: ‘Document 8:136 S [[2014-2015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-06-19.ana.ud1781e21275	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 19 June 2015: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 19 June 2015 at 9 p.m. 1100 is decreed: Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Jon Gunnar Pedersen is dismissed from office. The Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's office, Tore Vamraak, is hereby dismissed from office and appointed Secretary of State of the Council of State, Siv Jensen. Director Torkild Solli Haukaas is appointed Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Defence Hans J. Røsjorde is hereby dismissed from office. Mr Gjermund Hagesetter is appointed State Secretary for State Council Anders Anundsen. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ingvild Næss Stub is dismissed from office and appointed Secretary of State of Prime Minister Erna Solberg from the time when the Prime Minister's office decides. Vice-President Elsbeth Tronstad is appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Vidar Helgesen from the time when the Prime Minister's office decides." The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Laila Marie Reiertsen, takes the seat as representative for the time spent by Gjermund Hagesetter as Secretary of State. Before the meeting is closed, the President will draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that the negotiations of the Grand Duchy will resume on Wednesday 30 September at 9.30 a.m. 13th@item: inlistbox Since this is the last ordinary grand meeting before the holiday, the President will take the opportunity to thank co-representatives, members of the government, the staff of the Stortinge, the press department and all those who have contributed to the operation of Stortinge, for a good cooperation and wish you all a really good summer! Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
