ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e49	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Jørund Rytman, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Tor André Johnsen, Mazyar Keshvari, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Iselin Nybø and Sveinung Rotevatn, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The former temporary deputy of Oslo, Prableen Kaur, has again taken up his seat. Three permit applications are available: From the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide from 24 November until further notice. From the Workers’ Group on Permit of the Representative Svein Roald Hansen on 24 and 25 November to attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Geneva and travel with the EFTA Parliamentary Committee to Georgia. From the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde on 25 and 26 November to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Florence. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romsdal counties and the Eastfold counties, Steinar Reiten and Wenche Olsen respectively, there are applications for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the respective representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eides and Svein Roald Hansen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Simon Molvær GrimstadFor Oslo: Peter N. MyhreFor the Eastfold counties: Fredrik Björnebeck
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e134	Simon Molvær Grimstad and Fredrik Björnebeck are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e140	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e143	On behalf of the representatives of Iselin Nybø, Ola Elvestuen, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal by a representative on a dream promise for acute medicine, psychiatry and regional health innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e148	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e154	The President will state that an enquiry has been made by the Control and Constitutional Committee regarding a hearing planned for the Committee. In view of the difficulties encountered in finding the time for the hearing, the Committee requests that the hearing be held on a day-to-day basis, i.e. Wednesday, December 16. If the hearing is to take place on that day, the second sentence of paragraph 27 of the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure shall be waived. The President proposes that the request by the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that the Storting approve that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. Is there any objection to this? It's not, and it's supposed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e172	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e179	The proposer, the representative Lighthouse, believes that the requirements for pediatric competence need to be strengthened. The representative proposal contains two proposals: one which calls on the government to remove the possibility for municipalities to grant permanent derogations from today's requirement for pedagogical teacher training for pedagogical leaders, and the other is to ensure that 50 pst. by the staff of each nursery school shall receive training as a nursery teacher. The Council of State agrees with its reply to the Committee that there are good reasons to consider changing the rule of permanent exemption and informs that the department is investigating this further. Response by the Council of State to proposal No. 2 in view of the challenges faced by many regions in meeting today’s pedagogical norms, the government will give priority to ensuring compliance with today’s norm before the government may consider proposals for 50 pst. pediatric education. The vast majority of children aged one to five spend a lot of time in kindergarten. Kindergarten is a major and important part of the life of children and the family. The Committee believes that all kindergarten children should have a good kindergarten offer. This must be ensured regardless of whether a person is in a private or public kindergarten, whether it is large or small kindergartens, old or new. The Committee stresses the importance of emphasising the quality of kindergartens in order to ensure high-quality childcare facilities for all those who wish to do so. Quality is primarily a safe everyday life with enough adults per child, but also a good educational content and enough pedagogues. The Committee considers that the quality of the staff employed in kindergartens and their personal and professional competence is essential. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, understand the proposal to remove the possibility of granting permanent derogations from the requirement for pedagogical teacher training for pedagogical leaders. The majority, on the other hand, are skeptical of a stricter national pedagogical standard for all kindergartens in the country. A percentage of qualification requirements should also include child education courses other than kindergarten teachers. Another majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, believe that there should be room for other formal competences to be included in the calculation of a requirement of competence. A minority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, indicate that there is a broad consensus that it will be necessary to introduce a standard of manning that applies throughout the opening period in order to ensure an increase in adult densities in kindergarten. All parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, have also asked the government to assess whether a standard of 50 pst. should be introduced in conjunction with the standard of manning. These members shall, on the basis of the following proposals, promote: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the phase-in of a crew standard, which assesses the requirement for 50 pst. kindergarten teachers should be part of the plan.» The working party and the Christian People's Party believe it is time to start work on demands for general manning and pedagogical density. We point to the recommendations of the majority in the Øie Committee. The Christian People's Party also points out that the minority of the sample considered that the most appropriate level of a general recruitment requirement is one adult per two children under three years of age and one adult per five children over three years of age. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that a standard of manning shall be a minimum requirement for adult density, and it is an important assessment where the limit goes for what is proper manning. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party refer to previous major comments on both the recruitment norm and the dispensation scheme from the educational requirements of educational leaders and directors. An overall increase has also supported the removal of permanent exemptions, and this is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the removal of the possibility for the municipality to grant permanent derogations from today’s requirement for pedagogical teacher training for pedagogical leaders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e207	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e210	Thanks to Lysbakken for once again giving the representative proposal the opportunity to discuss the quality of kindergartens. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee, as the representative Mr Becquerad also said, to propose that the requirements for competence should be strengthened, so that all children are given a high-quality childcare facility as we wish. The current government has now for two years had the opportunity to follow up the Stoltenberg government’s announcement of future kindergartens in 2013, a message that was a very high-quality message, which showed where the grips were to be inserted, and showed the way forward. One of the main reasons for this was the need for pedagogues, and recruitment measures with an increased study capacity of 440 places, increased continuing training for pre-school teachers, directors and assistants, and the development of a separate supervisor for pedagogical staffing. The requirement for more children’s or children’s professional competence as well as the continuous enhancement of competence was also included in the message. In this way, the Storing Communication contained both the direction that Stortinget wanted in terms of staff competence, and something about the content of kindergarten, i.e. the quality. Even though the Council of State now claims that there is something the government sitting on has found, and that the red-green government was only occupied with space and not with content, history shows something else. Memory is as well-known selective, because we did both: it became both new places and increased quality. The Committee is somewhat divided as to what we are doing now. In particular, the exemption from permanent exemptions for municipalities and the desire for a plan for how to phase in a standard of personnel, where we ask that 50 pst should be assessed. shall be kindergarten teachers. In the hearing, the Education Association pointed to fresh figures from the NOVA saying that there are enough kindergarten teachers. It has been one of the arguments that have been used to maintain the dispensation possibilities and not set a manning standard. Today, about 6,000 annual works are missing to make the proportion of kindergarten teachers 50 pst. Therefore, the Education Association also agrees that a plan should be drawn up to phase in by 2020. They also show that it is important to have larger professional environments to ensure recruitment. We are also familiar with that from other sectors. We choose to trust the Education Association when they say that it is fully possible to do so now, and we also point out that when the Stortinget dealt with the recruitment norm in 2013, there was a great deal of agreement – with the exception of the Advance Party – that this was to be achieved by 2020. Therefore, this is not a new thought on our part; we choose to follow up what the Greatness has said in the majority comments and in the voting. Both the Association of Education and the Parental Committee of Kindergartens support the removal of the permanent possibility of exemption, which is also addressed by the Council of State. But as usual, he is going to investigate further in line with the executive power of the government. The Labour Party believes on the contrary that it is worth listening to those who know the field, and we, together with the Christian People's Party, promote proposals to remove this possibility of exemption, which is also in line with the proposal from the Light Background. The granting of temporary exemptions is quite different from what has become the rule in some municipalities. It should still be possible as a short-term emergency solution to employ others, but I stress briefly. Measures should be taken to employ people with kindergarten teachers. If this is further diluted, the result is that some children will go into departments without the pedagogical competence we want to be there, and the differences in quality are increasing. In terms of staffing, it is important that other formal pedagogical competences can also be used in kindergartens. But it's important that the pediatrics are given priority. Increased adulthood is important, and different competences complement and strengthen the quality. It is necessary for staff to be given the opportunity to continue their training and also to be given the opportunity to build on their real skills in such a way that they receive formal training at the end. Several occupational groups may be good contributors in kindergarten, and I would like to end by reminding that adults who see and understand children, who take action when something is wrong in their everyday lives, and who can read if the children are subjected to violence or other abuses, are the adults we want to care for the most valuable things we have, namely the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e231	Thank you to the rapporteur for the work that has been done. Thanks also to SV for involvement in an important matter. Competence building is a continuous field of government activity. It is also not difficult to understand that the staff in kindergartens are part of this effort. Through clear priorities, the nursery teachers, kindergarten managers and other nursery employees have been allocated resources to professional fill-up, both as managers and as other employees in kindergarten, not least through continuing training. The initiative on pre-school teachers also appears to produce results by increasing numbers of people working in kindergarten. If one has now stopped the ‘flood’ and may also be able to get more back, it gives a good chance to achieve the desire for an increase in the proportion of pedagogues in kindergartens. However, I would point out that when the SV in the proposal for a representative compares the pedagogical density of the kindergarten with that of ‘other educational institutions’, it goes too far. In other educational institutions, the objectives of pedagogical density are also much higher. Yes, it's to be taught in kindergarten, but to refer to them as one of all educational institutions is to go too far. While there is a strong consensus that skills must be present in kindergarten, we do still need clarification in order to gain a common understanding of the question of which other professional competences are relevant in kindergarten, which can be considered as pediatric competence, and how they may count in a percentage requirement. In a transition to stricter demands on the proportion of kindergarten teachers, for which it is absolutely necessary to look at, it is important that we also reflect on how to deal with the employees in kindergarten without formal kindergarten teacher training, which in such a situation becomes superfluous. Many of these are a great resource with a really long and good experience. This too we must have a conscious relationship with. I have to say that I have a great sense that in some countries very much emphasis is placed on suitability before the candidates complete their education. I also have to say that in our fraction we have a great sense of looking at the real competence of employees and applicants, and how this, in combination with formal education, can form the basis for recognition. There is no doubt that this is a demanding exercise, and therefore formal education must clearly be the normal recognition. Quality and competence have been invested in the right of government. We have granted 60 million in the current year. SEK for the construction of competences in kindergarten, and in the 2016 final draft budget, to be discussed now, there is a total of 130 million. kr to the same. It is a strong and clear signal that the government is taking on seriously the objective of improving the quality of kindergarten and recognises that the competence of employees is at the heart of this important work. The current possibility of granting exemptions from formal education in kindergartens is, of course, a device adopted to ensure that if it was difficult to get the right applicants in special situations, it would not go beyond the offer to the children. The right is clear that the exemption shall be the exception. Our aim is to reduce the need for such exemptions, and we therefore agree with the proposers in their intention to reduce the use of exemptions. Sometimes things come in the wrong order. The Ministry of Knowledge has started work on assessing several of the questions raised in this case. This will be answered in a later case, where we can see it in a larger context. This is the background to the fact that the Right does not support the minority proposal in the case. We look forward to getting a complete case from the Council of State, where we look at the skills requirements, what child-care education is at the heart of a kindergarten, and not least how we can avoid exemptions and reduce the number of unskilled children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e253	First of all, it is positive that a case is raised which deals with increasing the competence of kindergartens – thank you to SV for this. Kindergartens have been in great development. Firstly, there is a greater need for kindergartens, and the expansion of kindergartens has been great in all the municipalities in the country. Both municipal and private kindergartens have been developed for the benefit of the smallest. As a result, expertise and knowledge have gradually been strengthened. Many contributors have made a formidable effort. We must not forget that, and this is something that the Progress Party is very concerned about. At the same time, it is important that one has value for experience and that real competence must go hand in hand with formal competence. Other competences in kindergarten must also be open, and we want one to contribute even more. This can contribute to an even better kindergarten, as the Minister of Knowledge also says in his letter of 21 May. The Progress Party believes that there is already a great deal of work being done in kindergartens today, and that municipalities and kindergartens are cooperating well in different areas and different arenas. It should and should, of course, be a minimum number of pedagogical leaders, but that is not the case in everyday life. It turns out that this isn't always as easy to get. It is where owners can apply for a temporary exemption from the pedagogical training standard or exemption from the training requirements. And it's probably just to realize that in some municipalities, the exemptions can become a sleep cushion, where a less focused on recruiting the right staff – or actually they keep one set. We actually see a good deal of adding that has the right education, but that doesn't stay in kindergarten. They may continue to work within a whole other area, and we have to do something about that. At least I thought it was great that the minister of knowledge is concerned about the same thing. He will consider changing the rules on permanent dispensation and see it in conjunction with other legislation that regulates child care personnel. At the same time, one must not forget that most children in kindergarten are doing well in their day-to-day babysitting – both with good and not very good pedagogical density – but we should and should always be better, at best for the little ones. In particular, it is important that the professional environment of those added is increased – and thus better – which in turn will lead to the sustainability of the addition ratio, and that one recruits more easily. This will once again strengthen kindergartens in the future, which is very important. The Progress Party looks forward to the release by the Ministry of Knowledge and any specific measures to strengthen recruitment in areas facing the greatest challenges of the lack of kindergarten teachers. At the same time, we are very pleased that 130 million will be added. kr in the budget to improve the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e268	The centre party supports the proposal of the proposer and feels that pedagogical management in kindergarten is important. The red-green government made a formidable effort to help make it possible for all kids to go to kindergarten and for parents to have a good place to place the kids before school age, so that it could be an alternative for parents to go to work. The rules of leave were also strongly strengthened under the red-green government, not least after the pressure of SV. But the number of places and the coverage is one thing, the quality of the offer is quite another. The centre party agrees with SV that there is still a way to go because the quality of kindergartens is what we want. That is why it is great that this proposal has been tabled. Government emphasises the importance of quality in school and the formal competence of teachers as a prerequisite for qualitatively good training. So important is the government that the number of credits is to be in school, that one even chooses to separate teachers who have worked in school for 40 years! If one is so busy with quality in school as a claim, one would believe that it would be more cost-effective and more efficient to spend more money on enabling municipalities to provide training to their kindergarten staff at least – to those who will take care of the smallest children. The proposer indicates that the proportion of kindergarten teachers in Norwegian kindergartens is around 33 p.m. and that Norway is the only of 25 OECD countries surveyed with neither 50 p.m. Educational coverage or 80 pst. with children’s professional competence. There is no reason for it to be so in the future – on the contrary. The centre party believes that we need higher ambitions to ensure professional competence in kindergartens. I record that one of the proposals made by the minority in the setting is to investigate ‘requirements for 50 pst.’ pedagogical staff as part of the staff standard, not to introduce what SV proposed in the representative’s proposal. When the Council of State says that we first have to introduce what we're agreed on by the crew/norm, the Central Party also assumes that. But this does not prevent the government, when it is about to phase in what the Storting agreed in the kindergarten announcement, also assesses 50 pst. pedagogical coverage. Let me also stress that such a norm does not prevent other relevant education, such as: protective care, special pedagogue, etc. Unskilled workers, for whom the representative Harberg was involved, should immediately be offered by his municipality to take a letter of formal qualifications or other training. Today, in exceptional cases, the nursery owner may apply to the municipality for a temporary derogation from the norm on pedagogical staffing. The centre party considers that there should still be a possibility of exemption from the pedagogical teacher training standard for pedagogical managers, but that this exemption should not be granted on a permanent basis. Dispensation should only be an emergency solution, and the kindergarten must then be able to show that it is working actively to ensure the recruitment of pedagogical staff. It cannot continue as it is now, that it is known in several places that there is a liberal use of the derogation system, so that the emergency solution has become the rule. Such a practice is very unfortunate and may also lead to the absence of a job for newly-trained people – because, for convenience reasons, kindergartens continue with the staff they have and who have been approved after a derogation. The issue of the suspension of the exemption was also discussed and assessed in the Kindergarten message. I note that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee writes that this is something the Ministry will consider. We're glad, but the Center Party believes we don't have to wait any longer, and that kindergarten owners should get a clear signal right now that the Storting will end the practice that the exception has become the rule. With reference to the school, however, it is a bit funny, I think, that the Right and Advance Party in this case believe that in the case of kindergartens, there is no problem that pedagogical management should have the real competence of its employees assessed in combination with other formal pedagogical education. I don't see the whole difference in why it's okay in kindergarten, but in school it's not even good enough with teacher training from before 2014. Kindergarten teachers are trained to follow up the smallest children, provide them with group security, help them play with languages and concepts. We've told you kids to go to the kindergarten. Then we also have to make the nursery something other than a clean storage. Not least at a time when we become a more diverse country, with young people with very different backgrounds and cultures, kindergartens are one of the most important meetings with the country and culture. Language and social preparation for schools and communities is actively involved in children’s daily play.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e298	There were some people who once said that if the only tool you have is hammers, then every problem shows up like nails. I believe that knowledge fixes the vast majority of society's problems. So if my tool is knowledge, there's a lot of problems that can be fixed. In the area of kindergarten, I also believe that knowledge is the challenge that we need to fix. If we're going to lift children out of poverty, if we're going to take care to prevent apostasy, if we're going to give all kids an equally good start, if we're going to have a public system that remembers the kids who need extra help, as early as possible, yes, we need a kindergarten system that works, with competent adults. If there's one word I don't like, it's the term "adult density" as if being an adult is a separate competence that allows you to take care of children automatically. I believe it is a downgrading of the subject to talk about adult density. We're going to talk about the density of knowledge around the individual kid. Having a good kindergarten with good professionals is one of the most important things we can do to give all kids an equally good start. Therefore, it has been important for the Left that we have reduced the nursery prices for those families with poor advice. Therefore, it is important that last year we got free core time for four-year-olds and five-year-olds for families with poor advice. And that's why we're very happy that yesterday we put forward a budget, that the core period is also offered to three-year-olds, so that all the families who have poor advice, or who can't give their kids all the initial capital they actually need, get the opportunity to have the children in the kindergarten with free core time. The income limit goes about that. 50 pst. of all lone dependants in Norway, falls within that category. But if we're going to succeed in this, it's not just about making kindergarten more accessible and cheaper, especially for those who have poor advice, it's also about having kindergarten teachers and children's and youth workers into kindergartens. The left wants the proportion of employees with vocational qualifications in kindergarten to be 80 pst. We mean kindergarten teachers as well as child workers and youth workers. So I want to say from this pulpit that from my journey around Barnehage-Norway, it seems like one of the things that prevents people from taking their professional letters is that children's and youth work is one and the same letter. As a result, very many people who work in kindergarten, who have a passion for kindergarten, who have an interest in kindergarten, take half a letter – they do not receive a diploma, because they do not have practical time from youth work. So I think we're going to see if we should have divided that letter into two, given the opportunity to just take the nursery as a separate professional letter. I think that would have increased the academic density of the individual kindergartens, because it would have been easier for the individual to take that letter. So it's clear that the exemptions have been many and large, especially in the case of, for example, this town, which has had problems accessing professionals. Now this is getting better. The reason why the Left today is going to vote to remove the long-term exemptions is also to press the owner to extend his professional staff at any time against more formalised competence. Many of these kindergartens are small businesses with little room for action. Nevertheless, it is important to say as a signal from us that we want those companies to continue to expand their skills in their own professional environment. That is why the Left will vote in favour of both proposal No.1 and proposal No. 2 which is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e315	Then the representative Skei Grande has made clear what the Left will vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e318	I was born in 1975, the same year that the first Kinderhagelova was adopted in the Stortinget. Since then, there have been no changes in the legal requirements for the part kindergarten teachers. Since that time – 40 years ago – a tremendous amount has happened. A lot has happened in the research field. We now know more about what a good kindergarten is. Kindergarten education has exploded in both insight and research in general. We know far better now that having competent kindergartens has a huge amount to say for children – especially for the very smallest children. We know that being a one-year-old or two-year-old in a kindergarten with low competence and low maturity is not particularly positive. It could actually be negative. That means that when we have a system where about 300,000 children are in kindergarten every day, we have a special responsibility that they have a high professional level. It's in kindergarten that children's education begins. There they'll be safe, where they'll be friends. They're going to get help with the language, and they're going to get a taste of learning and mastering skills. Those who go in good kindergartens are better off, and they do better at school. All are some of the key to better quality in kindergarten is higher competence. In the case of different observations and in the case of different bulk treatment, all batches have concentrated exactly that. Yet Norway is the only country in 50 pst. of those added to kindergartens do not have kindergarten education, and there is also 80 pst. which does not have forms of pediatric competence. This proposal is simply about raising the level in general in kindergartens – getting a new level of comparison with what we have today. The good news is that it's completely possible. The kindergarten teachers have stopped. Now there's more to it than it ends. It's faster than we've ever believed. It is more lucrative to work in the nursery than we have previously assumed. The 2020 target can now be downgraded. We can actually have the level of ambition to reach that goal even closer in time – a little in line with the Christian People's Party previously mentioned. Now the statistics look so that we can actually introduce new rules earlier – both in terms of skills requirements and maturity. There are only a few states where this will be problematic. In most states it is fully feasible today. Unfortunately, there are far too many differences in competences between kindergartens. After the KOSTRA speech last year, there are only six municipalities that have a kindergarten class over 50 pst. Almost every third municipality has a kindergarten class of 30 pst. or less. In the worst case, the part is 10 pst. We're not going to "oute" any municipality here, but it's completely random what municipalities this is. You have e.g. on Helgeland a municipality where it is 10 pst. Then we have another municipality, Vega, which has over 50 pst. There are child care owners and municipalities around here who do not do their job, even if it is entirely possible for them to do it. That means we need a national rise in this area. We need national rules. When the research is so clear on what good kindergartens mean – that it requires competence at all stages – then we have to do what we do in school, set some standards. It is absurd that in the field of school we make stricter and stricter demands, while in the field of kindergarten we continue to make the same rules from 1975. We've been through a huge demographic development in kindergarten in the last decade. The capacity has increased – everyone has the right to babysitting. Now is the time for a large quality compromise for the nursery sector. I am very pleased that both the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party – if I understood them correctly from the Chair – support the proposals. So we actually have multiples in this room for this. This may seem to be a very nice day for the country's kindergartens, and I hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party will join the cake-chamber afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e332	Does the representative take up the proposal of the Socialist Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e335	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e340	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then addressed the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e343	The most important promise for kindergartens now is a quality promise. Now we've spent many years building out the number of places, and now the main priority must be what meets the children every single day. Therefore, the government and the majority of the population have invested more in quality than any other government has done in the past. At the same time, together with the cooperation parties at Stortinget, we have also invested more in accessibility, including: through moderation mechanisms and free core time. In 2016, we propose to spend 410 million. to improve the quality of kindergartens. That's 130 million. kr more than in 2015. We do that because we know that the employees and their competence are among the most important factors in the quality of nursery services. We have arranged in the budget this year, last year and next year for several assistants to take vocational or kindergarten teacher training, and for more people who are in important positions to receive management training for directors, for example, in order to increase the competence of all employees in kindergartens. More and more kindergarten teachers work in kindergarten, and more people choose to stay in the profession than before, which was also mentioned here, and that's very good. Through the future kindergarten strategy, the government will facilitate further recruitment and will retain even more kindergarten teachers. Among other things, we have strengthened the system of workplace-based kindergarten teacher training in order to increase the number of kindergarten teachers where the need is greater. In some regions, however, there are still major challenges in providing skilled labour to meet today’s educational norms. I believe, and the government believes, that the most important thing is to ensure that all kindergartens meet today's educational standard before considering increasing the requirement for the number of kindergarten teachers per child, as the representative Lysbakken suggests. At the same time, the government sees examples that kindergarten owners themselves increase the proportion of kindergarten teachers — in addition to the national minimum level — and that is very good. It shows that kindergarten owners give priority to increasing the competence of kindergarten independently of national regulations. We have also made it easier for parents to get information about exactly which kindergarten owners do this, and which kindergarten owners may not be so busy about it, through a parent portal – Kinderhagenfakta.no – where you can go in and check out, among other things. how many kindergarten teachers and how many adults there are in kindergarten. The introduction of strict national norms needs to be assessed against the impacts on flexibility and innovation in the sector. The introduction of a requirement of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers require an in-depth assessment of the impact on the quality of the nursery and the ability of the owner to adapt the nursery facilities to the best of the children. The representative proposal proposes to remove the possibility of granting permanent derogations from the requirement that pedagogical leaders be trained as pedagogical teachers. I agree that there are good reasons to consider changes in the rules on exemptions. At the same time, I – again – want to show that the number of kindergarten teachers is increasing, and therefore the need to exempt from the education requirement will not be as great in the future. Already today, we see that the number of exemptions goes down evenly. Today there are 144 people who have a derogation. In other words, the removal of permanent exemptions will not have very much practical significance in terms of the quality of kindergartens. Nevertheless, I will consider any changes to the exemption legislation and look at it in the context of other legislation regulating the staffing of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e361	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government is following up on the 2013 report on quality, because there was a lot of it. The right answer is that we're going to see everything in context, we're going to figure out more, we're going to wait a little bit longer -- it's really on the right way to get better. But much was also assessed in the Storing Message in 2013. We adopted both the crew standard and the dispensation standard. Thus, as an important quality requirement, the batches, with the exception of the Advance Party, have joined a standard of 1:3 and 1:6 crew by 2020. How has the Council of State intended to follow up on this, when he does not want to agree to the proposal to make a plan about it? How is he going to do it further, and follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e368	The government statement also states that we must have a standard of manpower – i.e. a standard for adult densities in kindergarten – by 2020. It's a no later date. That doesn't mean we can't do this before. So it's tempting, if the government is accused of being too preoccupied with investigating, to say that the Workers' Party is very concerned with plans and paper regulations. But the most important thing is what actually happens in the sector. Having a quality pot of 410 million. NOK 330 million. kr more than last year, that's what makes us able to get more kindergarten teachers. That's what enables us to recruit more of those who are in kindergarten today, provide them with additional education – too many additional education while working in kindergarten – and then make sure they can be in kindergarten longer, and then with higher skills. So I believe that rather than looking at the paper regulations and legislation first, we must first give the tools to get more kindergarten teachers. It makes both the cooperation parties and the government full. Then we can look at the regulations and the paper legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e375	I register that we are being accused of just wanting plans. In the last two years, the government has increased the grant to private kindergartens by 360 million. kr. Here we have not made any proposals for a plan on quality requirements. But what kind of quality requirements has the Council of State placed in relation to the significant allocations to private kindergartens to meet quality requirements there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e380	The change in the funding system for private kindergartens proposed by the government now means that private kindergartens are getting a little less money than they have received in the past. It is in the sector – if I do not remember correctly – approx. Twenty million. kr less. What the Workers' Party is proposing to do in addition is not to treat private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, i.e. to receive lower grants per child in private kindergartens compared to the public. I cannot understand how to withdraw funds, large amounts, from the sector – once they are reduced due to the calculation of pensions, which is a better system than what we have had in the past – will make private kindergartens better able to provide good childcare services for our children. Rather, on the contrary, it will mean a large cut to kindergarten children, but not all, just to the half that goes into private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e385	It is important when we talk about the standard of manpower – in each case it is important for the Christian People's Party – that we talk about a minimum requirement of adulthood. It must be fully possible for those municipalities that have the possibility to have a standard of manning higher than that which in some way becomes a state standard of manning. But in the setting, the Christian People's Party has a note that we stand alone about. We refer to a minority in the Barnhage Law Committee which considered that the most appropriate level of a general recruitment requirement is one adult per two children in the one-three-year-old department and one adult per five children over three years of age. Now I do not know how far the Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Kindergarten, has come into his mind about the standard of manning, but is this something that he will also look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e390	There must be some thinking about the level of manning, about how many adults we need, but I believe that the government has a clear and clear objective and ambition – 2020. It's the same as the previous government. That means that a crew standard will come by 2020. I want to repeat what I said in the answer to the previous questions: the most crucial thing when we talk about kindergarten teachers is that we also provide the tools to get more kindergarten teachers in place. The shortage of kindergarten teachers has fallen. A couple to three years ago, it was about 5,000. Today it's about 3,700-3,600, so it goes down. We lack fewer kindergarten teachers each year with this government and every year with this vast majority. It is also partly due to the fact that the majority of the population and the government provide money to train more kindergarten teachers. It's the most important thing. It will also facilitate the introduction of any intensification in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e398	I heard the council say some nice words about assessing the consequences of that 50 pst. in kindergartens, the competence of the child shall be the subject of pediatric competence. I can't represent it exactly, but we can read it in the minutes afterwards. In school, it's like there's a skill requirement to take care of the kids because the kids are the most important thing we have. Even the skills requirements are so strong that they have retroactive effect and that all those trained before 2014 are no longer ‘educated’. I wonder a little bit about the logic of the Council of State and the government, why they think it's more important to separate teachers with education, who may have years of real competence, but that in kindergartens it's actually not that dangerous. I also want to ask the Council of State: does he think that if we tighten the requirements for what kind of child-care skills we should have in kindergartens, it increases the quality or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e403	More children’s professional competence in kindergarten increases quality. There can be no doubt about it. If not, it would have been pointless for the government to spend record money raising quality and educating more people. I believe that the school and kindergarten, although both are pedagogical arenas and both are part of our education system, are two far different arenas. There are two requirements to get into school. One is the general teaching requirement, for example: that you have pedagogy. The second is the requirements for competence in the subjects, i.e. professional degradation. Of course, this is not a relevant requirement in kindergarten. We don't have teachers in kindergarten. We're not going to have that either, because kindergarten is a place you learn, but it's not going to be a school. The discussion will then be whether you can open up to child education courses other than kindergarten teachers. It's also what the funny constellation Right, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party point to, i.e. a real competence assessment in combination with other formal education. I think that's worth looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e408	I noticed that the Council of State took the credit for the fact that there have now become more kindergarten teachers, but it is certainly not a single kindergarten teacher who has been expelled since the government came to power. This should be done, so the capacity increase in the nursery sector does not seem to have anything to do with this government. When one sets qualification requirements in the school and one sets qualification requirements in the kindergarten, the government seems to think of two very different things. You can look at the worst example. Minimum 50 pst. is the pediatric assessment of the number of pediatric teachers in addition to those with pediatric competence. On training has 10 pst. I don't know how many children's professional qualifications of those who are there, but I guess it's also a very low number. When the council doesn't want to go into SV's proposal, what does he think one should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e415	Let me first stress that I have exactly the same starting point when I discuss formal competences in kindergarten, which I have in terms of school. It's that kindergarten teacher is a professional. A profession is characterised by professional expertise and expertise, entry requirements and formal admission requirements. The question when discussing whether other child-care education can also be relevant. You can, for example: have a person with five years of pedagogy and 20 years of seagoing service in school. He/she may then be considered qualified as head of department, for example: in a given situation? That's the kind of flexibility that I think we can assess if you want to increase the number of kindergarten teachers. But there can be no doubt that if we are to have a stronger claim on the number of kindergarten teachers – which I also have no objection to, I just think we have to do things in the right order – there must be more of the kindergarten teachers we are looking for. This can't be a balancing item, to put it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e422	I understand the Council of States correctly, he agrees with the proposal, but will only consider it, if necessary make an own proposal on it. Maybe that's what's the big difference when it comes to this. There's something daunting about the situation we're in today. I think we could have had a very good basis for a new large nursery deal, which this time could have been a quality compromise. When we get these gruesome research reports from the OECD, or the research done at Aarhus University, which shows that it's very problematic to have as low competence in kindergarten as we actually have, I think we're going to have to start escalating this strongly. The decrease we have now seen in the number of exemptions is far too small to meet that challenge. Then my question is: does the Council of State see that there is a urgency to improve the quality of the nursery, or is this something one should consider in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e429	I fully agree that it is urgent, and therefore this has been our great priority. In previous years, the number of places has been given the most attention. Our great priority has been: what kind of offers do children get when they get to kindergarten? What kind of quality do we have? That's why we're spending more money on quality work in kindergarten than ever, an increase of 130 million. kr in the proposal for next year's budget. It's a massive increase. Why? Well, because we want more people to train as nursery teachers, that more people who have a certificate are going to take kindergarten teachers, that more managers are going to get better education, etc. etc. The discussion here is simply about the order. Even though the number of unaccompanied kindergarten teachers is falling, we still lack about 3,500 kindergarten teachers. Then I believe it is most important to get them in, to fill in today's standard of education first. In addition, I believe that we should provide tools to the municipalities in order for them to be able to obtain more kindergarten teachers, and then you have to see if you should follow the paper determination. But an illusion about papermaking first and then resources -- I think that's crazy order.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e436	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e441	Just a few comments. First of all, I have the sense of the representative, Skei Grande, who pointed out the use of the word ‘adult density’, not least after hearing the rest of the debate here, where the terms ‘child-care competence’, ‘child-care teacher competence’ and ‘adult density’ are discussed – all three are even mentioned with 50 pst. It shows that we need to spend some time and figure out what it is, in addition to kindergarten teacher training, which is going to count here. For the proposal goes to 50 p.m. pediatric education, not pediatric coverage, as some have now mentioned in the line change. So an answer to the strange question from the representative asked about what demands are being made when the private kindergartens also receive subsidies from the state: it is exactly the same requirements that are imposed on the kindergartens that are run under public authority. There are exactly the same content requirements, for manning – all treated exactly the same. So why there should be other demands for the non-profit organizations, or for other private drivers, than for the public, I think it's a little strange to understand. That's strict requirements, and that's the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e448	I just want to link some comments to what the representative Harberg said in his post. If you are reading Kinderhagelova – e.g. § 2 – in respect of content: it is an education that we have in Norway today, which has one function, and it is that it should realise § 2 in Kinderhagelova. It is an education that goes on and on in kindergarten: renting processes, contributing to play, learning, care, etc. – it shall rent the form of activities in the nursery. Maybe it's only in the Storting that a chatter down the nursery teacher in that way and says that here, anyone with child-care competence can go in and fill that room. This is an education tailored to the nursery mission specifically for renting the processes to be found in kindergartens. So the question comes up: tighten the demand for a minimum of 50 pst. other competences in the field of pediatrics? It is almost – with respect to reporting – a strange starting point that one says that by setting a minimum requirement of that 50 pst. by their members shall have pediatric teachers' competence, will expel people and add other pediatric competence. It's very special to say that. One might think that one should have a minimum requirement of that 50 pst. they are to be provided with kindergarten teacher training, but one of them still needs — my God — many others to be admitted to kindergarten. But most of them should have competence, whatever their children's professional skills. I mean that Harberg, with such a reasoning as he has here, should be both for the minimum requirement of that 50 pst. by the members of the family are trained as a nursery teacher and are concerned that the rest are to have child-care competence. But what he's saying is that he, because he's concerned with other pediatric competence, goes against the 50 pst requirement. Then I thought it to the right as a rail argument. The eye selection was crystal clear: if we're to create qualitatively good kindergartens, we need a general increase in all child-care competences in kindergartens. They point specifically to kindergarten teachers. We have to go away from the dispensation scheme that we have today, which is being hollowed out and used roughly by different owners around the country. We need to put that in place, and the general level of pediatric competence needs to be increased. Then I cannot understand anything other than that those who are concerned with the competence of the nursery can be on these proposals. They may, if appropriate, be complementary to various proposals on child-care skills, but they must also not prevent one from supporting the minimum requirement of 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e461	Interestingly, it's Harberg who's up there defending the state council, who really responded very badly to what I asked for in the line change. My question is that there must be different requirements for private kindergartens. We can look at the judgment that fell on the Nesodden, where the opening time may be different. Where there is no joint recording, children with different needs may be addressed. That's why I say there must be a difference between the requirements of the private kindergartens in relation to the public kindergartens. So minimizing a question where we ask what kind of demands are made, when the private kindergartens get so much added without making demands for equality, if it's possible with equal treatment here, I think I'm completely in place. I also think it is easy for the Council of State to minimize and push over to the Workers' Party that we want only plans, but not implementations. Once again, I remember the general news about kindergartens, which was about quality and about places – and we delivered both parts. I'm glad that the sitting government follows it up, because that's what was meant by the large majority who was in favour of that kindergarten plan, so I'm satisfied with that. But did not come and say that we did not follow up both parts, because there was both space and quality in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e468	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e472	I think it was obvious to most people in the room that the representative Fylkesnes did not comment on my post. The reason we gave not to go for this now is that we wanted to see it in a whole when the government council and department are done with what they're doing. That's the reason, alone. What I said instead was that people here in the hall said that now we went for 50 pst. pediatric competence, i.e. not pediatric teaching competence, it has been stated by this pulpit. It shows how important it is that we make it clear that now it is kindergarten teaching. We don't yet have a common understanding of what is pediatric competence. There we have to do a job to get a common understanding, and I think the representative of Fylkesnes agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e497	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e504	ITS — three letters that can actually solve several of the transport sector’s challenges by making transport less environmentally harmful, more efficient, safer and, in addition, more space-efficient. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes a law on intelligent transport systems and services. The law shall allow one to set requirements for ITS applications and services in road transport and for the interface with other modes of transport, in addition to ensuring that ITS applications and services operate in a coordinated and coherent manner nationally and across borders in the EEA area. The scope of the law has been proposed limited to matters of national security or as necessary for defence purposes. I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the committee, where all the parties are behind the bill. The Committee has pointed out that there are different concerns to be addressed in both the development and use of ITS, and calls for the ongoing discussions in the EU on the challenges facing the current digital policy to be closely followed, cross-border, geo-blocking, sharing-economy, simplified VAT, standardisation, copyright or privacy. In the latter case, several hearing bodies have also pointed out that the use of ITS should be based on thorough data protection assessments. The government also indicates that the processing of personal data in connection with the operation of ITS applications and services is, of course, to be carried out in accordance with the applicable data protection legislation. Now, when we're going to adopt a new ITS law, it's important that we have a common understanding of what ITS actually is, and not least of what it can mean for me and you and for society in their wholeness. The ITS is largely about communication, and much of the framework here is in place. Today, we have a number of ITS solutions that we use in our daily traffic. We have navigation systems, we have automatic hatch parking, anti-lock and automatic sign recognition, we have toll collection, and we have variable speed limits and real-time information, to list some of the areas that today can simplify our movement. The ITS is all of the solutions and services within the transport sector that the public and society can benefit from. Developing such solutions often requires technology, but not least it also requires competence and understanding of the relationships that must be played together in order for one of these to succeed: Players have to play together to get solutions across the public and the private. There is a need to know international developments and trends within the ITS area, so that ideas that already exist can be used and optimised. When new solutions, such as electronic systems, are taken over by drivers, police or other authorities, it is necessary to clarify who is responsible. Legal barriers arise that must be handled. Cost-benefit assessments also need to address societal benefits and user value and not just the economic aspects. A wave of digitisation has hit the transport sector. So far, we've seen more sectors change radically in a short time. Media, banking and telecommunications are areas that today look totally different than what we could imagine just a few years back. An increasing degree of user-driven innovation is seen, with users’ expectations becoming increasingly demanding and fragmented. This will also come within the transport sector. 2015 is the year beta version of the driver-less cars is out for testing. It is also the year we produce an ITS law in Stortinget. He'll be late, but he'll be fine. I look forward to him forming the basis for ITS to solve several of its transport challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e538	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good account of the problems associated with the ITS. This is an example of technology coming before the law. It's always like that, and it has to be like that. The last few weeks have been exemplified by the discussion around Tesla that is running itself. Who is responsible if something cuts? How much attention do you need? And how are we as authorities going to deal with the issue? That's why I'm a little unsure whether we can today develop a common understanding of what the ITS actually is. It's possible that we can have a common understanding of what it is today, but I'm not so sure that we can get a common understanding of what it is tomorrow, because the technology has a raging speed. There'll be a lot of possibilities. Just as few of us predicted the ipad, I think there are few of us who manage to overlook all the consequences of the changes and of the developments that happen. There are two particular reasons I would like to mention in today's debate. One is the importance of coordination in Europe, and Norway plays an active role in this respect. The road stops, as is not known at the Swedish border, it continues. Then we also have to have systems that talk to each other. The second consideration I want to address is the relationship to privacy. It also referred to it in its comments. With regard to the solutions chosen, which will be mainly digital — it is, as the rapporteur said, about communication between different units and between systems — privacy considerations need to be carefully weighed and carefully assessed, so that they are taken care of by the individual. It is a unanimous committee that is concerned that Norway is at the forefront of the development of this field in Europe. It's about the possibilities and advantages of technology and systems. It is about road safety, it is about more efficient traffic management and thus also about climate issues. In the public budget hearing, there were some who claimed that by 2020, i.e. in five years’ time, driverless trucks will be a common view in the Netherlands. The question then becomes, and I want the Council of State to also touch on this in its statement: How do we find ourselves in Norway? Are we in the forefront? Are we positioned to be the ones that make use of those possibilities first? Is the regulatory design on track? Today, we are adopting a framework law that gives the Department extensive powers. How does the Council of States assess our speed and position in relation to the rest of Europe? And how do we assess the need to be able to grant exemptions from existing legislation in order to test out new technologies and systems? I hope this law helps us to take this position and take advantage of the opportunities, so that we save lives and damage, but that we also get an efficient traffic management that saves the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e553	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work on this important matter. Intelligent transport systems have the potential to address several problems in the transport sector and can contribute to increased road safety, reducing congestion on the road network, adapting traffic management to the traffic volumes involved and adapting traffic management to a chosen priority between different modes of transport. The ITS may further contribute to the reduction of the environmental and climate impacts of the road sector, the integration of individual vehicles into the overall infrastructure, the basis of current and potential future payment and charging systems, and contribute to the creation of a coherent digital travel planning system based on real time. It's not that wrong. The left is in favour of introducing this EU directive into Norway, and it is natural that Europe should develop a common system in this respect. In the future, ITS will be a central part of the road system. Then it is important that the system communicates with all road users who travel on our roads. It is nearby to bring out the winter, which has now begun to report its arrival – we noticed the driving conditions in the central eastern region today. Under such special driving conditions, ITS can provide important information to road users and potentially reduce the number of accidents. But the ITS is also part of the digitization of our society, which there is reason to reflect a little bit more around, and someone has already done this. The left is very concerned that you should be able to live a reasonably trackless life. This is significantly challenged by the digitisation of our society. I am pleased that the Committee believes that the use of framework law sets specific requirements for thorough data protection assessment when new ITS applications or services are to be used. We will stress the importance of heavy weight on privacy. It is therefore appropriate to consider whether the purpose of a service can be achieved through anonymous information and whether services can be based on voluntary activity. The left assumes that the processing of personal data related to the operation of ITS programmes and services shall be carried out in accordance with applicable data protection legislation. The Left also believes that in the development of new ITS solutions, contacts and dialogue with the responsible authorities in the field of privacy should be established. In the ITS Council, the Data Protection Authority is also represented in order to safeguard the privacy of the users of the services. An ITS system could include personal data and other information that requires special processing and, where appropriate, a concession from the Data Protection Authority. This includes, among other things: background to the fact that such systems often generate large amounts of information that could challenge privacy or be misused for illegal activity. I would therefore like to stress that such information needs to be adequately secured. The advantage of large amounts of data is that it can give us deeper and better insight, but such information can also easily lead to new information about the users for whom no concession has been sought. We know this from many other neighbouring issues. Therefore, all users of ITS must know which legislation is in force in order to ensure the best possible level of data protection. Some facts about ITS: Traffic trends in urban areas have, for example: in many cases resulted in problems of fragility and local contamination. This results in increased energy consumption, environmental pressures and deterioration of the global climate as well as reduced efficiency of the transport system. Therefore, in many cases the use of ITS for the use of existing infrastructure may be complementary. In the coming years, it is also likely that more clear consumer requirements will be identified that can be resolved through the use of ITS. This will relate in particular to public information and services for which users have a noticeable direct benefit – e.g. traffic information and the Internet on board in public transport. In the field of freight transport, ITS solutions are increasingly being used and are now being used, among others. to track and keep track of the location of the goods in the transport chain. Such solutions are largely designed to strengthen the market position of each activity and therefore knowledge of the solution is considered to be intra-corporate information. Consequently, there is little coordination between different types of actors, even within the same industry. In addition, both authority behaviour and consumer needs will affect development. Tax collection, security and control solutions are often linked to the need for authorities to streamline existing solutions or to ensure better transparency and control. The digitisation of the transport sector will make it far more seamless and efficient. The left believes that we must at the same time be able to secure the human need for privacy and to live a trackless life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e581	It is good to note that the Committee is so unanimous in its support of such an important issue. What is at stake is to have a framework for the introduction of ITS in Norway and in Europe and to ensure that laws and frameworks across borders and products can become a reality. It will be a framework law that will allow the Ministry to make regulations and what is needed to keep up with them in time and to facilitate more intelligent transport systems. So the formalization here is quite simple, and that's also pointed out by the committee. But the potential is very, very large. When you look at how the digitization of society affects us in everyday life, the upside here, when you see what you can do in the transport sector, is very good. These include: on the possibility of getting more information when you plan your everyday life – to be able to get up every morning, use your mobile phone and figure out how to get to work that day, and let large amounts of data, used in a good way, provide you with the best recommended travel tips based on weather and traffic conditions, from the time you plan to travel, so that each of us can optimise their journey, as well as optimise our infrastructure as a society. Last week I was in San Francisco at a big ITS conference. I met several small and large companies that are working on developing different applications, just to give travel information to most people. What's interesting is that a lot of these are going to mean that each of us is going to be involved and contribute information into the systems, so that everyone else gets information out. Some of the interesting thing is that when you get recommended travel routes from these applications, two next to each other would like to get recommended different travel routes, just because you take into account that if everyone had got the same option, you had a queue on the option that was given. On the contrary, the point here is to ensure that a user uses the infrastructure as efficiently as possible, and then one also needs to spread the travel pattern to most people. This is also the case, and it is perhaps even more relevant in relation to the law, about information to drivers when they are on the road, and between cars – yes, cars that talk together – or cars, buses and trucks, just so that one should not think that only passenger cars are involved. It's made sure that you get a law at the bottom that makes you talk across national borders. Yes, regardless of where the car is produced, regardless of where the car is used, one should know that it is not that immediately one comes to some national border, one has to reprogram because one has chosen a different format at the bottom. It also has to be that regardless of the type of car a user, whether it's a truck or a passenger car, whether it's Swedish-produced, American-produced or German-produced, a person has to have a community at the bottom that makes everything talk to each other in the same language. It's very important, for many places, when you've developed technology, it's only been within a special vehicle category, or within a certain brand, and it doesn't give you the benefit you want. Traffic safety is one of the important things you can achieve here. One knows that, in general, there are driving errors that are part of the cause of accidents. The passive aid that one has received with more technology means that several accidents can now be averted, simply by the fact that drivers are alerted to them, for example. they are bulging out of their field, or cars which present a risk are opposed. When one gets to automate this even more, one sees that even more accidents can be avoided. At the same time, there are important questions here that need to be clarified: what if an accident happens? In Norway it has been the driver who is responsible. It's well possible that it's still the rule that's at the bottom, but we have to have a discussion about this, when we know that here it could be everything from the Telecom companies that might not provide good enough services, to misprogramming in the systems. Is the driver still responsible? Per today it's like this, and then we have to discuss whether it's still going to be like this. Getting self-driving cars is a great opportunity in society. But it is not just cars that get self-driving. Think of getting self-driving buses, buses that may take down eight to ten people, but can hover in a neighborhood and pick people up, not just once an hour, but preferably every ten minutes, because a self-driving bus doesn't have to deal with driving and rest periods. The important thing for me is that we do not start all public transport with self-driving cars, but that we extend public transport using self-driving cars and self-driving buses. Then one solves several of the transport challenges in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e603	I share the State Council's optimism and assessment of the great potential that exists, but in my contribution I tried to challenge the Council of State to give an assessment to the Stortingen of how we operate with the Norwegian legislation. As I say, it's always the way technology jumps ahead, and then the regulation comes later. It's a completely natural thing, and so is it in this case. So once again, I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to say something about how we actually lie in Norway. Do we have a code now that's good enough? How does the Council of State assess regulations that allow exemptions from any regulations and laws that prevent testing new technologies? The other day I met a company that just wanted to test out some kind of autonomous small buses in Norway. Would it be possible for them to apply for a derogation and put it in place for a type of test project in the next year? How do we deal with the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e608	In relation to the rest of Europe, we are well placed, but there are still some challenges, such as: So a self-employed bus without people at all will not have a driver who can take responsibility if something happens. We have to take care of these things and put them in place. That's exactly why we have presented this proposal to the framework law, so that we can start making those regulations. It is quite obvious to me that there is still a lot of work to be done. This is the first step for the government to start that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e613	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e629	As you can see, there is a unanimous committee behind the vote. We've been involved in privacy, but in this case, the eCall system is not actually activated before an accident happens. So what's eCall? Yes, it is a European emergency alarm system for the automatic warning of a traffic accident from the vehicle to an alarm centre — that is what it is about. It is not that one can track the speed of the individual car before an accident occurs. Then I can refer to the previous case about the ITS Act, because it is also seen in the context of the eCall case that we are now dealing with. In the case of costs, one calculated them to approx. One million. EUR, i.e. with today's course around 9 million. kr per country, per country. It is the costs that you incur, and they are primarily to establish reception for the calls, technical upgrades, etc. All new passenger cars and smaller goods vehicles type-approved after 31 March 2018 shall have an eCall built-in. In the general context of socio-economic profitability, one suggests that the deployment of the eCall service will be socially viable. There's really nothing more to say than this. The Committee is very pleased that it is rolling on, we are constantly seeing new issues coming, and it was also a topic in the debate on the previous issue, so I think we should all be open to new developments. Only in five to six years do I think we're almost not going to recognize this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e644	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e658	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Ms Ljones Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e667	Today we have on the table a proposal from Heidi Greni, Marit Arnstad and Kjersti Toppe to amend the municipal law, so that municipalities and county councils do not have the opportunity to choose the parliamentary form of government. First of all, it's important to say that having a debate on the models that we run the community after is very important, and I appreciate that the proposers have raised the question, so that in this period we too can have an openness about this at any time, but it's of course extra important now that we are faced with a community reform. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work in a hectic time. The Committee agrees that the choice of governance in municipalities and county municipalities has a major impact on the political approach. Clear demands must be made for good democratic traditions of transparency and influence to be properly respected. Democracy is never stronger than the framework conditions given to the opposition, and public transparency in political processes is crucial for both success and legitimacy. Here we are, of course, also at the heart of why the proposers made their proposal: that too many decisions are taken in closed rooms. But I'm sure the proposers themselves intend to elaborate. It's not necessarily that it's the wrong model, it's the use of it, and we're concerned that transparency and democratic transparency are ensured, whether you choose the Presidency model or the parliamentaryism of municipalities and county municipalities. The majority of the Committee has noted that the Council of State, Mr Sanner, recommends that the Stortinget should not proceed with the present proposal. He explains this, among other things: with the mandate of the Municipal Law Committee to assess whether ‘the overall governance models of the Municipal Law facilitate broad and well-functioning political participation and transparency’ and to assess the need for increased regulation of the right of access by the elected public. The Committee shall deliver its report by the end of 2015. We agree with the Council of State that it is not appropriate to investigate or propose a comprehensive amendment of the municipal law before the report of the sample has been submitted and has been out for consultation. We should also consider that we are in the middle of a community reform, and that in a merged municipality, parliamentary governance can be a change that can solve some challenges at least in the start-up phase, for example. by balancing geographical challenges with a wise composition of the Council. The same could be true of the impending change of today's county councils to stronger and larger popularly-elected regions. I'm not saying that's necessarily a good recipe everywhere. Even in smaller units, the Presidency model is definitely preferable. But I would say that it would be unwise to scrape this alternative form of control now, before we have seen it above in a context. In view of this, the majority of the Committee considers that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol and that the matter must be discussed in an overall context when the session of the Municipal Law Committee is held. It shall nevertheless be noted that, although the City Council or the County Council may exempt its initial documents from publication during internal discussion in the Council, it must be assumed that the actual decision-making process is fully public and that sufficient time is allowed for both opposition, media and citizens to intervene and to express themselves and work to influence the outcome of the proceedings. The majority of the Committee understands that urban councils or county councils need to have initial internal discussions without having to be public. A ban on this would only lead to such discussions in a more unofficial setting. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, if most of the Council's proceedings take place without transparency, and not only the initial deviations, there is good reason to take a closer look at the legislation, but it should also be seen in the context of the position of the Municipal Law Committee when it is available. As much openness and participation as possible is an indispensable requirement for the Christian People's Party. In the meantime, this pulpit may call on the municipalities and county councils which have chosen, or will choose, parliamentary form to manage it wisely. On this basis, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e690	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough presentation. There's really no need to add that much. The good arguments have already been up. However, I want to be within a few moments that I want to clarify, both because I am from Oslo and – not least – based on what experience I have at least become acquainted with, as one who works a lot with urban politics. Nearly two-thirds of the city government representatives in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø want to continue with parliamentaryism. Now we have a different situation in Tromsø – I know that the new board wanted something else. But there is no doubt that where parliamentaryism has been tried out, it has worked, it has worked well over time, and especially here in Oslo we have good experience of it. I think everyone who works in a parliamentary system in Oslo, including the SV rapporteur in this city, would like to continue. I think that the proposal of the Central Party that has been put forward is a little weak, especially when you want to end a well-functioning governance system because you want to get more local democracy through it. There is an error connection. If I were to challenge the representative of the Central Party: they are against, for example. the reform of the local authorities. It's one of the most important steps we take to get more local democracy in the country. You're against it. And what happens when the municipalities are so small that they're not able to deliver services? Well, they create a lot of variants of what we call intercommunal companies. There are companies where the population and the individual choose absolutely have no insight into the decision-making basis, how to get to the different choices, how to use the money, etc., because you move power up and further away from the individual. It would be a more honest thing to say that there should be openness around processes in a municipality, there should be openness in a local democracy – and it is in a parliamentary system. It is not that politicians who hold back the necessary information are different from what is often done in government. Politicians and those who work on these matters need, as the rapporteur said, sometimes a forum where they can discuss things in peace. I think in a way that it would almost be a more honest matter from the Central Party to say that one is against parliamentarianism, and then put forward a proposal on it. But linking it up to the fact that it will strengthen local democracy is a very bad wrap-up. If we're going to talk about local democracy first, I'd rather have the Senter Party to carry out a municipal reform, so that we let go of more intercommunal companies. I just want to finish where I started: if local democracy is important to the Central Party, I hope they also want to listen to those municipalities and local politicians who actually have parliamentaryism and want to continue with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e705	Openness and the possibility of participation in local democracy – or in regional democracy too, for that matter – are a very important foundation, and I think most of us can agree on this immediately. The openness and transparency of the public sector are important in a democracy. That's one of several important assumptions, of course. The fact that we have a lively debate on how best to facilitate as much transparency, transparency and participation as possible is also an important prerequisite for our political and administrative system to have the necessary confidence in the population. Trust is a cornerstone of our democracy, and therefore it is important that we have the most open system possible for citizens to follow the various political and administrative decisions taken on behalf of the community. We notice that the Municipal Law Committee is working, and we think it makes sense to wait for the conclusions that come out of that job. Their term of office includes, inter alia: assess whether the overall governance models of the Local Government Act facilitate wide and well-functioning political participation and transparency. The work of the Municipal Law Committee shall be completed by the end of this year. So we do have the attitude that we think it makes sense to see the challenges in this overall context when the Municipal Law Committee has its position ready. Nevertheless, we will use the opportunity to make a proposal that can contribute to greater transparency and transparency in a very important matter. Together with the SV and the Centre Party, we are therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the provision of services for which the municipalities are responsible.’ Such a proposal could provide citizens with a greater and better overview of the purchase of private services by municipalities. It is of general interest how manning and other quality elements are resolved when private operators are given the task of performing services for which the municipalities are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e719	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal that he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e722	When the municipal law was amended in 1992 to open the way for the introduction of county and municipal parliamentarism, the reason was that the Stortinget would give the municipal sector access to a form of governance that made political responsibility clear and that revitalised the political processes. I think we can sum up to a little bit that it's done this way. There are four counties and three major cities which practice municipal parliamentarianism today. Soon there are only two cities, Oslo and Bergen, after Tromsø has decided to return to the presidency model. The proposal for a representative, Document 8:130 S for 2014-2015, to which I am a co-rapporteur, refers to a report submitted by a research group at the University of Nordland following an order from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in 2013. The report shows some of the findings that there is reason to consider carefully when the Stortinget is going to decide on our proposal today. The report shows that the parliamentary system has not, as the objective was, contributed to increased electoral participation. The report shows that the parliamentary management system is more closed than a Presidency system. The information for politicians is poorer and varies according to whether they belong to position or opposition. The report also states that the elected representatives themselves feel less active and less influential where parliamentaryism has been introduced than where the Presidency model applies. People elected to the opposition experience that the City Council or County Council has too much power and that the opposition can be characterised as outrageous. The report, which has been delivered to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, gives a good insight into how it has dealt with what was supposed to be a democratic reform in 1992. The purpose has not been achieved. For the Central Party, there are just as many fundamental assessments that underpin our proposal to abolish access to municipal law to choose parliamentary governance in municipalities and county municipalities. The relationship between politics and administration and the relationship between position and opposition is radically changed by the choice of parliamentaryism. The Council members, who are often not directly elected to the public, take over the strategic governance of the administration. The councilman loses his formal role. Similarly, the role of the local government or county council is limited. Their main function will be to deploy or remove the Board of Governors. The Presidency model represents a management system in which the members of the local government are equivalent and with equivalent responsibility for finding solutions that benefit the community. The Presidency model promotes cooperation and consensus-based solutions, while the parliamentary model promotes conflict. The hearing carried out during the examination of the draft representative gave us useful and thought-provoking information. The Editorial Association and the Journalist team both stated that the possibility of transparency in the political processes of parliamentaryally governed municipalities and counties is worse than in the municipal sector. They both reacted negatively to the changes in the Public Relations Act, which the Stortinget – otherwise against the votes of the Centre Party – adopted earlier this year, allowing for the exemption of case lists and case submissions from the public. I am afraid we have to note that the Stortinget has weakened the possibility of transparency and participation in local political processes. The majority chooses to propose that the draft representative be annexed to the Minutes. There I am afraid the proposal will rest in peace. The majority refer to the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation's letter to the Committee, where he recommends that the Storting should not proceed with the proposal, with reference to the work of the Municipal Law Committee. These include: assess whether the governance models of the Local Government Act facilitate wide and well-functioning participation and transparency. The Council of State also points out that the majority of the representatives of the city government in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø want to continue with parliamentaryism. However, the letter is dated in June, that is, before the new city council in Tromsø elected parliamentarianism to strengthen local democracy and to reduce the number of full-time politicians. On the part of the Centre Party, we are firmly committed to our proposal to ask the government to submit legislative proposals to abolish the right to choose parliamentary governance in municipalities and county municipalities. We also support the other two minority proposals, which will help to strengthen local democratic governance. We have recently seen examples of municipalities holding back information about their service production. Both the proposal to ensure full transparency around key quality indicators and the proposal that decisions on the outsourcing and outsourcing of municipal tasks be taken by the local authority have been taken in the right direction. Finally, I would like to address the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e750	The representative of Heidi Greni has taken up the proposals that the Central Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e753	Left wants to strengthen local self-government and give people greater influence over their own everyday lives. Local self-government is increasingly constrained by state detail management and is losing ground to state regulations and circulars and the urge of policymakers to interfere in small things. This bill represents a type of state override that Left does not support. The left agrees that the choice of form of government in municipalities and county municipalities has a major impact on the political approach. Clear demands shall be made for the observance of good democratic traditions with transparency and the ability to influence. For us, it is particularly important to point out that democracy is never stronger than the framework conditions given to the opposition. Public transparency in political processes is crucial both for performance and legitimacy. The government has set up a municipal law commission such as the has a mandate to assess ‘whether the overall governance models of the Local Government Act facilitate broad and well-functioning political participation and transparency’ and to assess the need for increased regulation of the right of access by elected representatives. The Committee shall deliver its report by the end of 2015. The Left agrees with the Council of State that it is not appropriate to investigate or make a major amendment to the municipal law before the report of the sample has been submitted and has been out for consultation. In our opinion, the question of the choice of governance should be up to each municipality and county. It surprises me a little bit that the Central Party, which is usually so concerned about transferring more power to local democracy, wants to remove the possibility of choosing the form of government in this case. I can see that in some cases it may be a good idea to go back from parliamentaryism to the Presidency model. I have been a strong supporter of myself in my own state, where, in my opinion, it has not worked very well. Also in several counties it has not worked well. But to say that we shouldn't give the opportunity to those who sit there, to have just this, that when the Center Party opens to, is to go too far. In the view of the Left, it will also be too strict to impose such a prohibition as the Centre Party here imposes. After all, it is a paradox that the Central Party in these days travels around most municipalities and calls for referendums, but will therefore go the opposite way – that we should govern municipal politicians and the local people elected. I think that's remarkable. We have confidence that politicians, in meeting their voters, can find the most appropriate form of governance, whether it is a parliamentary board or the Presidency model. Both have their advantages and disadvantages. However, it should be up to each municipality or state – or hopefully each region – to decide on. So we believe that a bill for a new municipal law must as far as possible ensure transparency about the political processes in the municipalities and the counties, regardless of the form of governance. The proposal starts with the proposal that under the parliamentary regime there is not enough working conditions for the press and opposition. The work of the press plays an important role in explaining how political decisions are taken. But bad processes and closed meeting cultures don't just have to be related to what kind of governance you have. I want to show that under the Presidency model there are municipalities with such uncultures. Therefore, the Left believes that such things must be combated by local government members and the press in common, and it is the task of Stortingen to determine the legal basis that ensures that both local government representatives and the press can assert this transparency. That is why we do not support this legislative proposal. As a parenthesis at the end: I think it is a little strange that the Labour Party representative Lauvås, who points out that the Municipal Law Committee has not finished its position, nevertheless chooses to make proposals in the matter that could have been expected and part of it. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e772	First of all, I would like to thank the case manager for a good answer. The Committee broadly agrees on most of the issues, at least the majority of them in the Committee, and the case-speaker made a good deal of it. I think it's a little ironic that a pointed out procedural routines locally – through this representative proposal from the Centre Party – and that one would have a clearer procedure for elected bodies, and also to invite the Stortinget to do a particular unfair and strange process of changing the municipality. A few months before the Municipal Law Committee is due to put forward its position, one over the table – directly and without a procedure and without a hearing – should abolish a right in the municipality to have a parliamentary form of government. It almost seems that a person has realized that a non-multiple number is not getting and is running a selection to – yes, why a driver with a selection, can ask a question about it. But if there were a multiple, it would at least have seen the Storting in a very strange light about a few months before the selection delivers its setting, alters the Municipality and takes away a right that the municipalities have today as the basis for their governance. So I could imagine challenging the Center Party whether they really mean they're going to do it now and not propose it as part of the follow-up to the Municipal Law Selection – which is not supposed to come before Christmas, as it says in our setting, where we've made a mistake when it comes to adjusting the timing, because that setting will come before Easter. But then, after 20 years, the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to discuss the health of the municipality and make its assessments after it has been out on the phone, and after it has had a safe and sound procedure, which should also be used by this body for important changes to the municipality – and not a representative proposal a few months before the election. The fact that it comes back from the Center Party, also bothers me a little bit, because it was said that it was the government that put this selection down, but it was the previous government that did, in June 2013. So it was the Central Party's own government council that invited you to look at the municipality, and then one doesn't have the patience to wait until one of your own orders is delivered before one concludes and invites the Stortinget today to debate this question. I think that is also special, and I think everyone should go in to put this proposal to the Minutes, and then we take the debate after we have had a good hearing, and after the selection has been concluded, before Easter. Then it's important to look at the health of the municipality, after 20 years, and not just pick up individual items at random. Therefore, I also found it a little strange that the Labour Party is part of a number of other proposals which in some way have nothing to do with the Document 8 proposal, but which only relate to those who have to decide on the suspension of competition, and that one should have greater openness about the manning situation in which one has competitive services. This is also a theme that can be taken into consideration in other contexts and that has nothing to do with this proposal for a representative. I think it's a little strange that a user uses this opportunity to make suggestions. We shall vote against all three proposals and we shall vote in favour of putting this proposal to the Minutes. And we think it's neat that the Stortinget waits for the setting to come before Easter, and then takes a position on the health of the municipality after 20 years, in a clean and good way. We don't take it randomly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e787	SV does not support the proposal of the Central Party, because we believe that the opening to choose a parliamentary model should lie there. At least it should be further investigated, which I recommend in all the changes in the laws that the Storting does, but which they do not always respect themselves. It's a good rule that we're going to do it anyway, seafaringly. But I think it is good that we can discuss parliamentaryism as a form of governance. My soul was involved in some of the first attempts that were in Hedmark, before the law came. I was a positive follower of it, but became more sceptical of it as I was on that sail. I see that this can work differently in different places, and we believe that this possibility should be open. With regard to the proposals and themes that we have addressed in this setting, together with both the Central Party and the Labour Party, it is about principles of transparency, regardless of the form of governance. And I think it has to be possible to discuss that now, and not just say that it's something that it's not good to discuss in any context. Then I would like to remind you of the report that the University of Tromsø has made on how parliamentaryism in Tromsø almost – I would say – was perverted. There the system gave too much power to the City Council and was undemocratic, says the report: The City Council gave ‘extensive powers to the City Council, which deprived the Municipal Council of decision-making powers in important matters’. The question is, Does the Storting mean it's okay? It is a question of principle that we have to consider. Is it really true that we believe that we can have parliamentary models that should deprive the local government of power? That's what SV says we can't have. Tromsø was expensive. The opposition received only the information specified by the majority and the City Council. There are, of course, important principles of transparency and democratic governance that are broken and that the Storing must decide are all right. It cannot be easy to exclude locally the minority and the local government from having information on matters that are being dealt with. The report from the University of Tromsø also concludes that the municipal government was deprived of the role of representative for people, because the city council decided everything. The Committees had no authority and cases were settled before they arrived at the Committees. This is one way in which parliamentaryism has been exercised, and where parliamentary power has been abused not to increase local democracy but to limit it. That is what SV will prevent, because we believe it is wrong, and I sincerely hope that there is a majority for such a view in the hall. Some of the things that are problematic and that we address in this setting are, of course, when you launch and privatize services. There is a political disagreement about it – SV is against it, while the right side is for it. The only question is whether such a method should also ensure that important facts and information such as the minority and the parliamentary body, including the local government or county council, are kept secret. Or, by privatisation, take in enterprises that are subject to a completely different law than those that apply to, for example: shall do so in public service, such as accounting law, archive law, etc., as we know it is. That means you can't go and check. It seems that there is a deliberate choice from the right, which wants more privatisation, that this secret should continue. That is why we are promoting such proposals, because this is important for those who are going to take the decisions and have responsibility as a elected body in the municipalities. We also believe, on a principle basis, that decisions on privatisation and outsourcing must be taken by the elected body. In Tromsø, the elected body said it was up to the City Council to decide this, that they could decide exactly what they wanted. That means it wasn't a elected body that ran that city, and it was SV against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e812	It is a long tradition for municipalities and county municipalities to decide how to organise their activities. At the overall level, it implies the choice of a traditional Presidency model or parliamentary form. Within these models, the municipality also has a great deal of freedom to organise itself in the way they consider most appropriate. The representative proposal, which is the basis for this matter, means that the municipality should not be in a parliamentary form. This is an in-depth proposal to the municipalities and municipal self-government. The Municipal Law Committee, as mentioned in the debate, was set down by the previous government, and the selection is well under way with a comprehensive review of the municipal law with a view to strengthening municipal autonomy. The committee shall also assess whether the ‘overarching governance models of the municipal law facilitate broad and well-functioning political participation and transparency’. The committee would therefore say something about the elements and premises behind the proposal for a representative. The selection is also likely to affect a number of other aspects relevant to the question of whether the municipalities should be able to choose the parliamentary form of government. The term of office of the Committee shall be 18 March 2016. It will then be consulted widely, and there will be good opportunities for the Storting to discuss the various elements of the proposal. As I pointed out in my letter to the Committee, I do not think it is relevant or appropriate to make such a comprehensive proposal as has been proposed, before the report of the Committee on Local Law has been completed and has been at general consultation. At this stage, there are not sufficient arguments against municipalities being able to choose a parliamentary form of government. Several municipalities have good experience with this form of governance. It is wanted and works well in several municipalities and county municipalities. The figures in the report from the University of Northern Ireland on the dissolution of governance also show this. No municipality is forced to have parliamentary form of government. It's an optional alternative to the Presidency model. We have also recently seen examples of a local government choosing to move away from parliamentary governance. Of course, this is quite right. The starting point is that the municipalities must be able to choose their own form of governance. I am pleased that the large majority of the committee agrees that the report of the Municipal Law Committee should be awaited before going on with extensive amendments to the municipal law. Let me also point to two other minority proposals in the vote, one from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on transparency and the use of public funds. This is also a problem that is assessed by the municipal law commission, such as the local law commission. has been entrusted with the task of assessing whether rules on the right of access for the municipality should be laid down when tasks or services for the municipality are performed by companies other than the whole of the municipality. With regard to the second proposal, from the Centre Party and SV, relating to the launching of competition and tenders, let me just point out that in today's municipal law all power is collected in the local government. It is the local authority itself that decides whether such decisions must be taken by the local authority itself, which is decided in the individual municipality. This is a central point, because there will always be different relationships in different municipalities that we, from our political point of view, do not agree with. But if we are going to have strong local self-government and strong local democracy, as national politicians, we must also accept that some municipalities choose solutions that we ourselves are not followers of. It is simply a consequence of local democracy. I believe it is important that we have confidence in the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e836	The use of public funds should be fully transparent, and more publicity is and has been an important debate in progress. The rights and opportunities of citizens – and the press in general – to follow up on what we politicians adopt and why we adopt it are essential. I assume that the Council of State also agrees. The Council of State then refers to the proposal and to the Municipal Law Committee, which is also to assess that type of right of access. If the Municipal Law Committee were to fall down on the fact that it would be wise to do as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are now proposing, will the Council of State follow it up and come back with such a proposal to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e843	The Council of State always listens to wise advice and wise suggestions. I agree that it is important to have a debate on these issues. There are important issues that the Workers' Party is travelling and that the sample is to be assessed, and therefore I think it makes sense that we are now waiting for the Municipal Law Committee and the hearing to be held. Then we'll come back to Stortinget with any suggestions, and that means there'll be good opportunities to discuss it in Stortinget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e850	I believe that it would have been absolutely right for the council to have such a right of access when the municipalities leave, for example. health services to be provided by private individuals? Do I understand correctly that he actually agrees that the citizens, the population, the press should already have such right of access to the private enterprises – how they mann it, how it is rigged – when they are to carry out the services? Does the Council actually agree that this is a reasonable requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e855	I believe it would be a fundamental error for me to address this issue now, as the Municipal Law Committee will present its position in just a few months' time. I want to see what proposals they come up with and also await the public debate that will follow. But it's clear that there's an intersection here, because you also have to take into account what's commercial interest. There we have to find, possibly, a point of intersection, and I am absolutely sure that the municipal law commission goes into and evaluates. Then we get good opportunities to discuss it both in public space and in Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e862	The decision was made in our amendments to the Public Relations Act, where one could exempt the case list and suspension of preparatory Council meetings from the public. Norwegian Editors' Association and Norwegian Journalists' Teams expressed themselves very sceptical about this at the hearing in the committee. The journalist team writes: ‘As we see it, the democratic rules of the parliamentary regime have weakened both for meeting and for public documents.’ Folklorics also believe that processes are becoming more closed, and many feel remorseful about the advice. In this room, we often discuss what we can do to make us more public, but for municipalities and counties, we have now made decisions where we make it less public. Does the Council of State feel that it is unproblematic that we have given municipalities and fill with the possibility of governance models that weaken people's ability to participate in local political debates?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e874	The answer to the question is yes, but I disagree fundamentally with the premise. I do not share the view that it is undemocratic to exempt preparatory documents from public opinion. It is also the case for a government to be able to carry out preparatory work and not to be published. I believe that this should also be possible in parliamentary governance systems in municipalities and counties, as established by a clear majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e879	I had hoped it was possible to have some fundamental views on this before the law came here, for example. that we could agree to strengthen the principle of real transparency in the municipal policy processes, as the Editorial Association says. When, in a way, the Council of State does not say anything about what he thinks about more transparency, there is reason to ask whether he does not have a fundamental view of the need to work because there must be more transparency in processes leading to decision-making, and basic documents for decision-making, including in municipal bodies, and that then it is important that no documents that are exempt from public opinion or that do not follow the same rules as municipal government have, and that there is an obstacle to this transparency – that the principle must lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e884	Of course, the Council of State has clear principles in this matter, but I am absolutely convinced that I would also be criticised if I had pushed a public sample before it put forward its position. When we have a public body to present its position in just a few months' time, I think it is important that they are allowed to finish their work, and that it then comes out for broad public debate. However, I have commented on several of the proposals that have been put forward, including: the proposal of the Centre Party and the SV that the local authority should not be able to decide that the decision on competitive tendering is taken by others other than the local authority. These are the questions I think should be taken on the local council – to decide who will make those decisions. It's about trusting local democracy and local self-government. Sometimes it will be decisions that you do not agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e890	The problem is that the Council of State does not impose any principles relating to local democracy in the reasoning he now has. Is it true that all decisions are to be made in each municipality anyway? Are there no principles of transparency to apply? Are there no principles governing the behaviour and transparency of the elected body? And is the Council of State then in principle dependent on the fact that a local government can actually delegate everything to a parliamentary board – so to speak, lay down and say we'll see each other in four years' time? I find no end to what the Council of State says you can delegate. If you then adopt a parliamentary system, you can delegate all the decisions that the local government would take to this body, and then all the popular involvement in local democracy is gone for four years. Is that really the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e897	Of course not, but I am dealing with the proposals put forward in this proposal for a representative. One question is whether to liquidate the possibility of having a parliamentary management system. I believe it is important that the municipalities should be able to choose whether they want it or not, but this is a question that is now being discussed in the Municipal Law Committee, and I think it is reasonable that we also await the assessments made there. The second question relates to the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, namely on transparency in the use of public funds. There I have also pointed out that there is a question that is being considered in the Municipal Law Committee. I'm a member of openness, and I'm a member of transparency for politicians, for the media, and for citizens. But there's a boundary draw there. I think we have to wait for the sample report to see where they set the limit. The question is, do they put it in the right place?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e904	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e909	I followed the change of lines with great interest, especially what was attached to proposal 1. Today’s government wants more private actors to be involved in the welfare, and it calls on the government platform to promote the commercialisation of basic public welfare services. It says: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. Statutory rights to welfare services, combined with free establishment rights and price financing directly to the service provider chosen by the consumer, may contribute to ensuring such development.’;» It was the government platform – quite extreme formulations in Norwegian context and policies that the Progress Party until now has been entirely alone in front of it. This is ideologically justified – a desire for market governance. It is not a knowledge-based approach to what provides the best welfare services for individuals. Today, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are promoting proposals to ensure full transparency of quality indicators in services, such as: be able to have access to staffing of the services operated by the municipality itself, and also to the services of private operators responsible for operating. It is not least a concrete case from Oslo that has motivated us to promote this proposal. There, relatives and employees could not be given access to the manning situation precisely because it was considered to be a business secret. What is the reason why the bulk of the population will not give taxpayers insight into what their money is spent on, and what is the result? Are you afraid of what you can get to know? It is not surprising that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are using the opportunity to re-promote this proposal – as we did last year. The obvious thing is that the bulk of the population won't support us and hide behind the formality. We would like to discuss the specific paragraphs when we come to the municipal law, but in this field there is a need for clear signals and clear speech from Stortinget. The majority won't be in it, and the municipal minister probably let the cats out of the bag when he talked about the intersection with the commercial interests. Here it's the commercial interests that weigh the most heavily on the population, and that's a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e923	After two contributions from the representatives Andersen and Pedersen, it is necessary to say something about secrecy. For our part, this issue has concerned the desire to deprive municipalities and municipalities of the possibilities for parliamentary governance. I think that in many ways the representative Andersen responded well in his post. She has tried this herself and sees that it can work some places, but not equally well over everything. But she is not willing to take the opportunity away, because this must be up to the counties and municipalities to decide for themselves. Then we get into the next part that's about the Workers' Party's position. To be precise: the left is for more publicity in all contexts, including in the case of tender documents. I believe in principle that this matter deserves a thorough review in the Municipal Law Committee. That is why I am surprised at the lightliness of the Workers' Party in this respect. I had expected the Workers' Party to use these months, and then we could take the debate here. What's going to be the answer for the Left then, definitely doesn't have to be the same thing as today. We point out that the debate is coming, and we would like to take part in it. We want more transparency, and we don't have any mantra, which maybe some people have, that private solutions are bad. It is also shown in the same proposal. My attitude to this is that many of the services offered locally are of a very good nature. But at the same time, it's not going to come from public opinion in many places claiming to be very good in competition. I think we need to focus more on what's left of the population. This has been my entrance through 20 years of speed in local democracy at the local government level. I had actually expected from this hall that we didn't want to override local democracy even more. I look forward to the debate we are going to have on the committee's investigation. Then we will have the opportunity to just debate what representatives Lauvås and Pedersen point to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e934	I have to say I was amazed that the representative, Mr Njåstad, is making it almost as if it were not nice to take up this debate here in the Chamber. This is a detail in the Municipal Law Committee, and it is a detail on which the University of Nordland has carefully assessed and provided a completely unambiguous report. It is a report ordered by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in 2013 and it clearly shows that the negative consequences are much greater than the positive ones. The intention of the 1992 amendments on the vitalisation of policy processes has not been turned on. There has not been an increase in electoral participation; on the contrary, there have been many negative consequences: more closed processes, people elected to elections feel less active, the population has less opportunity to influence, the opposition feels weak, and the media are clear that it prevents their ability to do a proper job. When we've made a change where the purpose is not achieved, and where it's so obvious that the negative consequences are far greater than the positives, I think it's our duty as elected representatives to say from. It surprises me that it is almost characterised as unfine that one then travels the debate. When something does not work, or works completely against its purpose, it is necessary to propose changes and to propose changes quickly. The representative, Mr Kapur, felt that this was contrary to our position on the reform of the municipality, but the reform of the municipality is in no way a local democracy reform. When one states in a document that one opens up to overrun local political processes, opens up to repeal local decisions, and then calls it a local democracy reform, it's the opposite. It's an attack on local democracy. It's a threat that the municipalities that don't want them to. It is also a reform that, if it were to succeed, would make participation in local democracy very demanding, especially in municipalities that will become large in area. Who will be active and participate in local policy processes if one is to run two hours each way to a municipal board meeting? Who will manage to have it closest to a hobby? Most municipal politicians are not full-time politicians; most municipal politicians perform the ombudsman role in the evening, so if we are to get a well-functioning local democracy, we must also be close to the municipal government hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e947	It is a little strange to follow up the debate and hear that those who call for principles and a principle approach to these issues are those who show least principles. Whether it is wise or not to have parliamentary authority in the municipalities, each municipality must find out. Let me remind you that the parliamentary form of government is exactly the same form of government we have in our nation. That is the form of government that is the basis of our democracy. Parliamentaryism is the same form of government that all parties participated in celebrating the anniversary of the Constitution. So having this form of government locally is considered undemocratic and can lead to a lack of transparency, but if we have it at national level, it is the best form of government you know. Then I miss a little bit of a fundamental assessment the other way. Government conferences are excluded from the public. It is not possible to participate for either opposition, media or others. The same applies to preparatory notes. Preparatory notes and internal communication within the government are excluded from the public and thus the property of a prime minister in the future. But when the same principles are transferred at local level, they are suddenly undemocratic. What kind of principled attitude is this to democracy and parliamentaryism as a form of governance? And then you want to do this with private actors. Not least, the country is a major buyer of private services, whether in the hospital sector or in other areas. So it's a little strange to witness that those who demand a principle approach to this and are so critical of parliamentaryism as a form of government locally believe that at national level this is the best form of government we have and the very basis for our democracy. Secondly, I must also say that I fully agree with the assessments made by the Council of State. It's a little strange that the parties that the government has been involved in putting down this sample are the ones that criticize the Council of State most strongly because he says he's actually willing to listen to and take this sample seriously. He will take the selection proposal seriously and evaluate them in a proper and thorough manner. It's a little strange that regardless of what the sample had to come up with, the parties that belonged to the previous government have concluded and decided. Then you have to ask yourself: why did you set up this sample? They seem to have all the answers in advance. I believe that those who ask for clarification in principle should also go a few rounds with themselves on what they think of parliamentaryism as a form of governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e956	To say that parliamentaryism in the municipal sector is the same as at national level, I don't think it's entirely for the public administration to pass the exam – but I'm going to leave it. There is a reduction in a sample, and it must work, but the political parties must have some principles that underpin this. The government and the cooperation partners have said that they have a fundamental principle, which means that they want more privatisation, and with more privatisation, secrecy becomes a general principle, as it is today, as the representative Helga Pedersen said. Privacy becomes a horizontal principle if you have privatisation and competitive outsourcing as a principle. At the same time, one cannot say that one is much too transparent, if one is not willing to crush any principle rules that should apply regardless of the form of governance – whether it is a Presidency model, or whether it is a parliamentary model – that say that there should be equal transparency and that one should have insight into important parameters. It just shows that you don't want to, because you don't have a basic view of it, and that's what's serious here. So here you are for a principle that prevents transparency, and then you won't decide on any important principles of transparency – that's what you have to wait for. Then they say that there is no fundamental difference between competitive outsourcing and tender and public operation. There's an S.I.V. disagree. But if you agree, you don't think it's going to be like transparency? Does it really mean that it should be different – so that you can know how the money is used when they are used in public, but not when it is put to competition? These are important questions of principle that you can think of as being completely independent of the selection that has been reduced. You don't have to wait it out. So to the last theme that I tried to challenge the state council a little bit, and it was, can there be, at all, some things left in the local government? Or do you think that the local government can initially, by one decision, delegate everything and otherwise do nothing, so go home and wait four years at home? There must be some basic decisions to be left in a local government, which makes it reasonable to meet, to travel miles and to prepare for participation, and where there is not only something you can actually sign in a text message instead. If it is to be a living local democracy, it must be that local politicians should actually be involved in some of the decisions for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e967	I signed up to thank you for a really interesting and versatile debate and for thanking the Committee and the Council of State for their contributions. I don't want to distribute grades. Whoever's in existence or not, and any exams, gets our voters to decide. But I think part of the proposals and claims that have come from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, are really very negative and a little characteristic. I hope that someone does not characterise political colleagues in this way. So we're not hiding behind a proposal of formalities. We do not have to question or suspect each other in this way – or perhaps also accuse of secrecy. That wasn't meant to be. I think everyone knows that. And if the red-greens think it's so bad with parliamentaryism, they had eight years to clean it up. I can't see that there have been very serious reasons since that. It is reported that it works reasonably well in Oslo, and it worked poorly in Tromsø. It is then decided by local politicians in those places – I think that is very good – after a democratic election. We at Stortinget must make sure that these are decent models the municipalities can follow. When the representative of the Central Party speaks of parliamentaryism, one could believe that most municipalities had chosen parliamentaryism, but the fact is that most people choose the Presidency model. I've known it for 20 years, and I can say that there are also difficult borderlines between management and decision etc. in the processes that are taking place. It depends on the democratic attitude of the elected representatives. I agree with what the opposition says, that trust is essential – it is “trust” that is the key. Let us then agree on it so far in this debate, while we are waiting for the Municipal Law Committee. It's going to be very exciting. Then we can re-examine some of these things and not necessarily put all of the other side things in focus, if we're going to be principled. What is important is transparency and participation – that citizens can influence the outcome of good policy processes for citizens. So far, this matter stands out well as it exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e984	I must say that it is strange when a party which here in the Stortinget has presented a proposal where they will refuse municipalities to choose parliamentaryism as a form of government, at the same time stands here and accuses the government of wanting to have a municipal reform that is hostile to local democracy. I think the representative must agree that it will be paradoxical. So here we are talking about one of the most important reforms in modern times – we now have a model in Norway, almost 50 years old, for how to solve tomorrow’s challenges. It's time to do something about it. The robustness of municipalities becomes strong enough to deliver their statutory services is one of the most important local democratic measures we take – we enable municipal politicians to deliver their statutory services. That's what the voters have chosen them to do – while representatives like Greni think it's all right that the municipalities get as small as the Center Party wants them because it fits with their party program, that it's not so dangerous as long as they can solve everything through some ASs, limited liability companies, which the voters have zero influence over, zero transparency, that it's better. What is this like – with regard to local democracy? If we look at how this government has had dialogue with the municipalities, given more power to the municipalities, given several tasks to the municipalities – in case after case – it is not the case that the municipalities are being overrun. They'll be heard, unlike under former municipal ministers, from the Center Party. I could still. With regard to the views of the Central Party on the police reform, on hospital reform – the municipal reform – I was in the middle of talking about tasks – no matter what the case, it is that if it is according to the program of the Centre Party, yes, it is talking about local democracy. If that's not the case, it's state override. I think that the post we now heard from the Central Party's own representative actually illustrates it all. I repeat: the central party believes that a proposal in the Stortinget today that we should refuse municipalities to have a parliamentary system if they want to do so is to work for local democracy, while working for municipalities to gain more real power – as we do – is not to work for local democracy. I think it's completely fair to stand here and spend the time marketing your program and your election affairs, but then you have to be honest about what you're talking about, and not mix the cards, as the representative is doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e997	We were accused by this pulpit of not having a principle approach to – or thoughts about what we think should be important in – a local democracy, and I find that strange. All the rules of the game that apply to democracy, we believe, should also apply to those places where there is parliamentaryism, just as at national level. That's why I think it's not wanted to draw that parallel. The representative of Andersen's party in Oslo believes that parliamentaryism is so important that they have sought to stop calling themselves city councils, but rather city councils, and have to have a city state minister and city councils – so important is the parliamentaryism of the Socialist Left Party in the capital, and so the representative of SV in this room believes that it is sought to compare parliamentaryism at national and local level. These are the same principles. There is no transparency in the government conferences, and there is no transparency in the city council conferences, or in the city government conferences, as it will be if SV gets what they want in Oslo. Government notes are not available at the same time as city council notes are not available. It's a parallel reality, by choosing parliamentaryism, there's someone who's responsible and part of the executive, whether it's local or national. Saying that we don't have any principal approaches to or opinions about democracy is just a strange statement. We are for all democratic rules of the game, both local and national. We're too transparent, but we also see the importance of it having to be appropriate how to organize these things. So coming up and saying that we who want to wait for what the sample comes with, don't have any opinions about democracy until it comes, falls on its own unfairness. We have clear opinions on this. At the same time, we will hear what the recommendations are before we draw conclusions. We also see from examples around our country that parliamentary governance works better or worse, but it is actually not up to us nationally to decide what is the best form of governance locally. They must be allowed to do that locally. But once again, those who are asking for a principle approach are the most unprincipled. Those who want urban government in the capital are those who believe that parliamentaryism is not democratic, but is a closed form of governance, etc. It is not a matter of intervention, and I think everyone who follows this debate will get along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1011	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1014	Well, I guess if you want to misunderstand, you do it anyway. So SV is not to shut down parliamentary governance; we are in order for them to be able to choose it locally. But we're for some principles of transparency, and those principles we don't have to wait for a sample to know what we're talking about. Just as little as I need a sample to know what I think about the principle of 'competition outsourcing', the majority here needs a sample to know that they are for it. What we've been asking for is the principles of transparency in this process. I think the majority have completely failed to answer that question. Governments have indicated some business secrets, but how tax money is managed, how quality is actually ensured, for example. in the case of manning, in the case of any of these private operators providing welfare, the right-hand side will not have principles of and believe that there will be transparency, and I have to say that is quite disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1021	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1024	I didn't think this was going to be a debate on municipal reform, but the representative, Kapur, makes some recordings that make it impossible not to respond – so when he believes that there is going to be a greater interference with Norwegian municipalities, that four municipalities and two municipalities should return to what they had before 1992, be deprived of the possibility of a system that has not actually worked, and that very few municipalities have used it, than that perhaps 100 municipalities that do not want community mergers are threatened with the rice behind the mirror: that they should be coerced together. But the municipal reform has obviously lost progress, as Njåstad said in the Official Journal of Bergen, when they threaten to take the economy from the municipalities that will not be forced into these decisions. It's a total overrun of local democracy, which the Center Party will never support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1029	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1032	Let there be no doubt that we believe that all democratic rules of the game will also apply on the competitive stage. The advantage of having a parliamentary governance system, as one might say. is in the capital, that the City Council and the City Council are always responsible for the services provided to citizens irrespective of who provides the services. In the case of health care facilities – whether private or public – it is the City Council and the Trade Agency that are responsible, unlike in the case of intercommunal companies, where governments can be set up across many municipalities, and no one is directly responsible, for it is the boards of the intercommunal companies that govern and are responsible for the production of services. In parliamentarianism, it is not the case that politicians are deprived of their responsibility to the citizens, rather on the contrary: it is very clear that they are directly responsible for all the services provided, whether they are private or public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1037	André N. Skelstad has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1040	Finally, many claims are made in this debate, which is not really about the debate. So some people think that geography is a limiting factor for democracy. I come from a state with quite a few small municipalities with large geographic distances. The representative of the Central Party points out in his statement here that there will be a lack of democracy – for example. in the Lierne – with large geographical distances. I believe that democracy in the Lire works in a very good way. Representative Andersen points out things about what goes on with the Law Committee later. I think it's natural to look at it when it comes. So the hall here might have slightly different opinions when this comes, but we'll take that debate then. This was a debate on the possibility of parliamentaryism or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1047	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1061	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1066	First, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party for a very good and important proposal. During the committee reading, there was a majority in the Committee on the proposals, but unfortunately not in the Storting. I'm essentially going to explain the opinion of the majority committee, and I'm going to get what's going to be the majority in the Chamber, to explain its point of view, but I'm going to think about it a little bit. This issue is about expanding democracy. Kids and youth aren't just futures, as we use to say, they're forever. They have many important experiences, all of which are needed for the organisation of community and local affairs to listen to and participate in. So the fact that children and young people get organs where they can promote their vision, and where there are people who actually have a duty to listen to them, is important. It's easy to create organs where you're going to be able to sit and come up with things, but if they send their decisions into an empty room, where no one listens and cares about listening to them, I think we're doing children and young people, who absolutely need to practice participating in democracy, a bear service. It is such that both the Constitution, the Children's Act and the United Nations Children's Convention say that children have the right to speak. Most municipalities have youth councils, but not all, and that's where the majority in the hall here and the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party separate teams. The majority say that they do not think there is a need to formalise the participation of young people, and that there is no need to have rules for what is going to apply everywhere. That's what we think you need, because this is important. It is an important extension of democracy. We believe it is important to have rules that give real influence, and working conditions that are necessary to do a good job on behalf of the municipality's children and young people. Then they must have resources, and they must have employees in the municipality dedicated to this. Then it works well, as the municipality of Mandal told us in the hearing. They have had this since 2007 and believe that it works well, and that they benefit greatly from it. We, the majority of the committee, believe it is important to strive for the representation of young people with different experience and living conditions. There may be some youth groups that have not as easily organized themselves as others. This could be done, for example, by: children with experience in the field of child protection, minority language or young people with disabilities. Speaking of which, some people say that people with disabilities are represented in the advice of people with disabilities. We also see that several municipalities are now bringing together the councils of elderly people and the councils of disabled people. I think that young people with disabilities are not very well represented. Then you can't say that they are, but they should be. The most important thing is that young people themselves must be able to influence and choose whom to sit on the council. We therefore believe that it is necessary to legislate for all municipalities and county councils to have such advice, and we believe that there is a need for national guidelines that ensure some important overall consideration. There must be minimum provisions on how the Council should be. These councils must have the right to information at the right time, access to case documents and the structure of the Council's views and follow the case documents of the municipal procedure. There must be national rules for broad and diverse representation, and there must be some requirements for resources for these youth councils, so that they can actually do the job they are set to do. I'm a little surprised that there wasn't a majority in this case. This I thought was a matter to which the bulk of the population would join. Of course, I was most surprised that the Left did not participate in this majority. I'm not so surprised that the Progress Party is not on such proposals, but I'm very surprised that I wasn't there, especially after the consultation round we had on the committee, where the youth organisations agreed to tell us how important this is. They said that if this is not organised, there will be some municipalities where they will not be able to participate in democracy, and I believe that we have a duty to ensure that they get.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1081	Thank you to the case rapporteur, Karin Andersen, for handling the matter well in the committee, and thank you for a very good report, which I think is 100 pst. Agreed. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children and young people have the right to be heard in matters relating to them. In spite of this, work has been done on participation bodies for children and young people to a great extent characterised by randomness and lack of structure. This means that children and young people’s potential for real participation is very different from the municipality to the municipality. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party, has proposed to legislate on youth councils and to develop national guidelines for these youth councils. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that today. The Youth Council is an effective and good way to ensure the participation of young people, but it requires facilitating involvement and influence. That responsibility must be taken by the elected representatives and the municipal administration. Youth is often said to be the future. I do not agree with that. Youth is here and now. They live their lives today, and they must have the opportunity to influence their lives here and now. Children and young people under the age of 18 account for one fifth of Norway’s population, one fifth of the population who do not have the right to vote today, but who have a unique knowledge of being young today. It's not just knowledge that children and young people have a right to influence, but it's knowledge that I think many municipalities could use to create even better breeding environments. When I was much younger than I am today, I was so lucky to be able to join in and start up both the municipal government of young people at home in North Aurdal and the youth council in Uppland. Then rose and beautiful adults made up: they made up, they explained, and they gave us knowledge. They understood that it was the responsibility of adults to facilitate the participation of young people. We did not always get our will, but we were listened to, and we were taken seriously. We got knowledge of democratic rules, and we had to learn to prioritise. For many of us, it became an engagement that has remained until today, because we were taken seriously, and because we learned that it is useful to engage. Legislation on participation bodies for children and young people should be the sole means of fulfilling the fundamental rights of children and young people to be heard. But in addition, there are a number of bonus effects that we as a bulking should want. When children and young people are involved in the processes, and when children and young people are taken seriously, the commitment they have will only become stronger. Knowledge of policies and policy processes is important. The involvement and knowledge that young people gain will include, among other things: could contribute to increasing the participation of young people in elections. It can also be a way of recruiting more young people for policy. Young people are under-represented wherever there is power — in local governments, in county councils and here on the Stortinget. That is a democratic problem. It is our responsibility to make it easier for children and young people to get involved and be heard. I want to say that we are lucky in this country that has children and young people who attend hearings in Stortinget and who demand to be heard, who are engaged, and who have a desire to influence their communities for the best of others. We are quite privileged – young people’s commitment is strong in Norway. A number of organisations representing children and young people met at the hearing. The Committee was informed of the need for legislative and national guidelines. My wish is that adults stop saying that it's so nice and fun that young people get involved, and rather say, "We depend on their voices, we're going to take you seriously, and we're going to listen to their opinions." I am a member of the elderly council, which is a statutory agency for the elderly. I think there's a broad consensus on that in this room. But it is a paradox that the majority in this Chamber today will vote against having a statutory participation body for children and young people, a group that does not have the right to vote today. I think it is particularly strange that the Left is ensuring a majority against this proposal. I think it is disappointing, and I wish the Storting could give a much better signal today to children and young people who want to influence their everyday lives and their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1107	It is rare, and probably fortunately for that, that on one and the same day – in two consecutive cases – we will experience having to discuss proposals from this Chamber to narrow down municipal autonomy and the urban space of action. So it's in the second case that this room discusses why we who sit in this room know better how to apply democratic governance, and govern Norwegian municipalities and the participation of people of different character. It is not every day that we feel that we have those debates – and at the same time two on the rap, to say it like that. The interests of children and young people shall be safeguarded in matters relating to them. Children and young people should have the opportunity to be heard and to address matters themselves. This matter is not a matter of disagreement about it. The question in the matter now under consideration is whether we trust local elected representatives – as many of us have been before – and the municipalities are able to take care of, and also want to take care of, the interests of children and young people without requiring them here to set up a new, formal body in the form of youth councils. There is also a question of lawmaking that will actually help to solve any challenges that children and young people face in the minority of municipalities that do not currently have youth councils. The vast majority of municipalities and county councils have youth councils or other forms of youth assistance without the adoption by the Stortinget in the form of law. That is also the case, the 2009 survey referred to in the State Council's letter to the Committee shows that there is a larger proportion of municipalities under 5000 inhabitants who do not have the Council of State, and most of the larger municipalities have it. However, where there has been no formalisation of youth council arrangements, young people are often invited to other forms of consultation. Young people may be represented in ordinary municipal committees and may also have the opportunity to present cases to local authorities. This can be found in different solutions around different communities. That's a lot we don't like, but we still don't choose to prohibit by law. In the same way, there's a lot we like well, but as we don't think it's necessary to offer. Youth councils fall into the last category. In the Right, we believe that youth councils and other forms of child and youth assistance found locally are great. We encourage what we think is brilliant at 80 pst. of the municipalities have youth councils and 90 pst. by the counties. But we don't have to say everything we're for, maybe especially when the municipalities also do it. We are also for municipalities to put extra effort into drawing with young people with different experiences and living conditions, typical groups that are rarely organized, there may be child-restraints, and there may be children with disabilities. But I would also like to say, since the rapporteur stressed that only the majority of those groups were involved: No, it is actually a unanimous committee that is occupied by those groups, but the minority points out that we are concerned that these groups should be drawn with regardless of whether or not there is legislation by the Youth Council. We believe that this is important anyway. In a society based on trust, it also means that we have to trust in this room. Then we have to be careful with laws or laws when new proposals for regulation of the lives of individuals, the voluntary sector, civil society, religious communities, academia or – as in this case – local self-government emerge. The temptation is great, and we understand that when we look at the case map for today's big business. In this case, the right-wing party does not choose to walk the path of lawmaking the Youth Council, because we have confidence in the communities and municipalities – trust as they already prove worthy. At the same time, it is important that youth councils operate as well as possible where one chooses to have it, and today there are great variations. This is why it is good for the government to give notice of its own guidelines for youth councils that you have to deal with when you choose to have them. This, I think, is a security for young people as well as for municipalities that may be in doubt about how a youth council can work best. In the opinion of the Right, this will provide a good framework for youth participation, while not narrowing the room for action of local democracy further. For these reasons, the right will vote against I and II in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1128	Let me first say the same thing from the Progress Party's side as the Right said: We are voting against I and II, with the same foundation as the representative Frank J. Jenssen did on behalf of the Right. I was still a little worried when the representative Karin Andersen made a number out of her surprise that the Left did not support the proposal, but she was not surprised that the Progress Party did not support it. I interpret it as once again an impression that the Progress Party didn't think it was important with the Youth Council, and it gives me an opportunity, from this pulpit, to stress that we thought it was very important with the Youth Council, but it's not like everything we thought was important in this Chamber, we have to legislate and push the municipalities of Norway to have. I think we should put our trust in local democracy. It is quite right, as Frank J. Jensen said, that we cannot, after debate, give the impression that as we sit in this room, we are so much wiser than those in the newly elected local government – 428 in the number plus 19 county councils – to make the judgements of what is best locally. I have great confidence that the municipalities will find good solutions. When 80 pst. by the municipalities and 90 pst. By the county councils in Norway, youth councils are working, showing that the municipalities actually have good participation bodies themselves, but we don't have to offer them from this room. Furthermore, I have a great sense that the new municipality, which we have discussed a little earlier today, may have legal personality and some common guidelines for youth councils – if it is a good thing – something that the government has warned her to do. I think it's the way to go, that one picks out the best practice and comes with some good advice through a guide, or that another way is to set guidelines, so that the municipalities can adopt the best experience. I knew myself very well in what the representative Håheim said about his involvement in North Aurdal and getting into the municipal administration of youth. I myself had the pleasure of being a spokesperson in a municipality for many years and naturally took it enough to meet the municipal government of youth in the greatest seriousness, so if I wasn't there, I had to have a very good reason, because it's about taking the youth seriously, and being present at their arena. I have little sense for the municipalities that say they have a youth council, and they have a secretary who sits with the youth council, and it's going to be with it. If the top elected and administrative board does not involve themselves personally in the youth council and the municipal board, then there is no good interaction between the municipal board and the municipal board. So it's unusually important that one shows a personal commitment there, both by explaining things and by listening and getting recorded. I also believe – at least it was my impression – that the most important value is actually to learn the most possible youth about democracy and perhaps spark a little spark in them by seeing that it is possible for them to make a difference in their community from their place in the municipal administration of youth to eventually become a member of the ordinary local government. A well-kept secret that I can share with you is that one of my greatest joys as a local politician was to see that one who started in the municipal administration of youth, opted for and was elected to the ordinary local government. Then we see that learning about democracy and seeing it work in practice is one of the most important things about having youth councils and youth municipal government in the municipalities. Furthermore, it is very important that one is present and can pass on what the local government of youth has meant about one thing, because we know that young people are not so happy to make decisions and deal with local democracy in that way. They want to have direct contact and verbally be able to say what they mean. It is also important that the youth get some information about how the procedure is, and it is about the presence and explanation of the adviser and spokesperson when it is best to make recordings and when it is too late to make recordings when the processes are run. This is what the municipalities know best about how to organise them. I believe that the key is that we have to make it possible for young people to participate in democracy through the school commitment to facilitate it. I believe the key is that it must happen in the day(s), in which case a key person matches another person in the municipality, while being easy to get involved by young people. But this is what we're going to come back to. If I think back when I was a spokesman, I actually believe that it made a stronger impression on me to see that the youth engaged, than that there was a law decision from Stortinget. Seeing that the youth knocked on the door, would do something and had a glowing commitment count more for a spokesman and a local government than a law decision from this hall. That's why I think it's still going to be the most important thing for young people's commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1151	The Christian People's Party believes that young people should participate, that they should be involved in the decisions taken in the community and that they are well able to do so. They have the shoes on and know the youth's reality, perceptions and interests. Not least this is important to think about democracy training. I have worked with children and young people through a long life and know that they are able to participate constructively. Around the country there are many well-functioning youth councils, and they are organised in a slightly different way. Some places aren't youth councils, and that's probably the main reason why we now have a proposal to legislate on this. The Christian People's Party believes that the Storting is the right place to give leadership and law to ensure democracy, including to young people. Christian People's Party and party colleague Geir Jørgen Bekkewold are co-sponsors, and the Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal. Today, it is already legal for each municipality to have an old age council, and it seems only right and fair that young people should also have a similar arena. It is important that work is done to find a model that works in each municipality. In particular, where there is no tradition of youth councils, additional work needs to be done in the initial phase, and a broad representation of young people with different backgrounds should be sought in the council. I have faith that the municipalities are doing well. Schools make a good contribution to the dissemination of social knowledge and have many good educational arrangements related to choices. Nevertheless, many places are underrepresented both in political parties and in matters where it is natural for young people to be heard. Practical work on democracy through youth councils must not replace this, but in addition. We hope and believe that it will motivate young people for a broader commitment to our democracy in the future. For the sake of order, we would have said that we are not in favour of a comment on the right of the councils to 'take political initiatives which the municipality must respond to, and the right to meet, speak and propose in the local council'. That's what the elected representatives are going to do. The wording in that note opens, in our opinion, a little too unprotected for general meeting, speech and proposal rights, and it becomes a mistake in principle. However, we believe that the youth councils must be given the opportunity to present specific issues to the local government. I would also like to state that, not least in the ongoing process of municipal reform, it is important to facilitate the hearing of the youth's voice and that young people have a real impact on the outcome. We have 18-year-old voting rights, and the Christian People's Party believes that it is a good idea that age of voting and age of authority follow each other. However, participation in democracy is very welcome to start earlier. We have many good examples of this in the Christian People's Party, where we have active youth and an active youth movement. We therefore welcome the legalisation of youth councils in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1166	The Central Party supports the legalisation of the Youth Council. This means that municipalities are given the same responsibility for establishing the youth participation body as they currently have through the legislation on the elderly and advice for people with disabilities. Many municipalities and county councils already have youth councils. The experience may be slightly different, but it is worth noting that all those who represented the youth at the municipal committee hearing were in favour of this becoming a nationwide and regulated arrangement. I can understand the scepticism of imposing new advice on municipalities. There is no guarantee that an elderly council will provide better care for the elderly or that a youth council will provide better youth policies. We have to be careful to ask the municipalities to use the resources for investigation and administrative work. It is measures targeting young people, the elderly and those with disabilities that really count. On the other hand, the involvement of the concerned is central to good local democratic work. Youth does not have the right to vote until they are 18. In this respect, it can be argued that a participation body for young people is particularly important. Young people's voices need to be heard in matters relating to school, cultural life, volunteering and not least in planning matters that determine what the municipality of the future should look like, and especially in the question of whether the municipality should remain as its own municipality in the future. In his letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that he does not support the proposal to legislate on the Youth Council but that it will follow the majority’s proposals in the public inquiry Youth, Power and Participation, NOU 2011:20, to develop national guidelines for local youth councils. The Council of State refers to the preparation, in cooperation with other departments, of a consultation note on participation schemes in the municipalities. As I understand it, the consultation note will add to the continuation of the statutory retirement councils and advice for people with disabilities, while the youth council will continue to be voluntary for municipalities. I lack a reason for such discrimination. If the government considers it difficult to propose a change in the legal status of elderly people and advice for people with disabilities, it is likely that this will trigger negative reactions from those who lose their statutory participation areas. This must mean that these groups are satisfied with today's arrangements and would like to continue them. In this case, there is a good argument that young people are also entitled to a participation body in the municipalities. In his letter, the Council of State indicates that about 80 pst. of the municipalities already have youth councils. So the bill on the establishment of the Youth Council will not mean such a big change in itself. The main change will follow the national guidelines for the Youth Council, which I understand both the ministry and an overall increase believe will come. Many of the municipalities that already have youth councils – 80 pst. – may have to redefine the work they have set up. The other 20 pst. will have to start work but hopefully get help in a good way through the decision on national guidelines. In the opinion of the Committee, the majority of the Committee makes some orders that we believe need to be taken into account in national guidelines. We believe that the guidelines should be designed as minimum provisions and that the municipalities should be required to extend the framework of the Youth Councils. We believe that the right of advice to file and information needs to be made clear, and that it should be made available to a representation that gives different groups access to the advice. So I know that the majority of committees are not the same as the majority here in the Chamber, and that it will hardly get a majority here today. Nevertheless, it would be wise for the Council of State to listen to our advice and take them into account in the design of the consultation note to be issued by the Ministry of Local Affairs and other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1187	The left considers it important that children and young people be given the opportunity to participate, influence, raise their own affairs and participate in democratic processes in local democracy. This is underlined in the Children's Act § 31–33, in the Constitution § 104 and in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 12. The UN Children’s Committee in Geneva also writes about the importance of hearing children and young people in the Youth Council, in its general commentary on Article 12 of the Children’s Convention. The question in this case is whether or not the Youth Council should be legalised. For the Left, local democracy is important, and in this case, we have confidence that local governments can find good solutions for the participation of children and young people, even if it does not involve a law-enforcement. The left considers that the participation of children and young people is important for the development of democracy and for the development of child and youth policies in municipalities and municipalities. These members also refer to the letter of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation dated 1 October 2015, which shows that the vast majority of municipalities today have participation schemes, such as: child and youth councils. A survey of all municipalities in 2009 showed that about 80 pst. by the municipalities have a youth participation body in some form, often with different organisation, different mandates and varying frequency of meetings. The situation in the county municipalities is essentially as for the municipalities, and only one county municipality states that they do not have a youth participation body. The absence of formalised schemes by a minority may have different reasons and may not necessarily mean that young people in these communities are not heard. The left, in any case, does not think that there is a need to impose on municipalities the statutory establishment of youth councils, regardless of the assessments made locally by both young people and others. We have confidence that if the youth himself or the so-called adults in a municipality or a county sees the need to formalize the participation of young people, it will come into being, as the widespread prevalence of youth councils, without prior legalization, actually shows. Furthermore, the left indicates that, in its letter to the Committee, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation announced a proposal to bring together rules on municipal organisation in the municipal law through a general provision on specific participation schemes in the municipalities, and that detailed rules for individual schemes are laid down in the regulations. Furthermore, we point out that municipalities and counties which have or establish youth councils will then have to comply with the legislation, which will also include provisions on the election of members, term of office, authority and function of the body, etc. The left considers that this approach provides a good framework for participation, while the space for action of local democracy is not narrowed. I would also like to mention that the Left is a supporter of extending the right to participate in that democracy. We have decided to lower the age of voting rights to 16 years, both in the event of a roll-call vote and in the case of municipal and county elections. I believe that youth councils cannot bear sole responsibility for hearing children and young people’s voices. Therefore, the Left believes that reduced voting age will lead to far more votes being heard and must be taken into account in our democracy. Then there is a paradox, to which the representative Håheim refers, that one fifth of the population is without participation by voting rights. One of the things that can then be done is actually reducing the age of voting from 18 to 16 years, of which left and also SV are followers. I think that might be the most accurate. But this is how, as the representative Frank J. Jenssen pointed out in the initial debate, this can also be a narrowing of local democracy. At the same time, one has to weigh for and against, and I think to the extent that it is a good thing to be able to give more assistance to children and young people, but whether it is basically right that we should have even more representatives or advice, I'm probably more in doubt about. On the other hand, I think it is good that the representative of the Progress Party dares to say that this is up to local democracy, because it is not always up to them that they want fewer representatives, council etc. I don't think we're going to be able to delegate democracy, because in many ways that the majority of the committee was actually on the trail. A delegation of democracy I have little principleal sense of. Therefore, I also believe that one does not necessarily need to have more agents or advice that is statutory. I think it would be better for local democracy to find out for itself. That is why the Left does not support the draft law that is here today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1208	Let me start by saying that it is gratifying that all the speakers have said so far that you are in favour of the Youth Council, and that you think it is good with the help of youth. I'm glad. I have previously stressed in debates on local democracy and electoral participation that local elections are more than what happens on election day, it is also about how to involve citizens between elections. But what it boils down to is whether we should legislate everything we are for, and everything we think is good, or whether we should also leave some judgements and decisions to local democracy. My assessment is that it is not necessary to introduce a compulsory scheme in this area. It is the case, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate, that the vast majority of municipalities and municipalities have different forms of participation for young people. But it is quite right, as the majority of the committee points out, that in the absence of legislation, there has been a great deal of uncertainty about these arrangements. In some cases, the participation scheme has also been organised in breach of the municipal law. We want to make it easier for municipalities and county councils to manage different forms of user involvement. We therefore bring together the participation schemes into one law, with one responsible department, and we want to simplify the legislation. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation will shortly issue a consultation note, drawn up in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Integration. We will propose a new provision for advice for young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. Detailed rules for each participation scheme are laid down in the Regulation. The current mandatory participation schemes for the elderly and disabled are continued. A similar statutory scheme for young people will be voluntary for municipalities and county municipalities. If a municipality wishes to have a youth council or any other form of participation for young people, it must comply with the legislation that will be put in place for this participation scheme. I believe that this approach provides a good framework for participation, while at the same time ensuring room for action for local democracy. Another issue raised is that it is unfortunate that according to today's legislation the municipalities can have common advice for the elderly and disabled. I agree that the general rule should be that each of these groups has their own advice, but it must be up to the individual municipality to assess whether it is exceptionally necessary to have a joint council. I look forward to a broad consultation on the government's proposal to bring the participation arrangements together in a new legislative provision. This is a legislative project that is independent of the work of revising the municipal law, and we aim to ensure that a new legislation on participation schemes will be in place before the next municipal government and county council elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1231	I have a simple question for the Council of State. Is the Council of State for today's model of law-enforcement of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1236	I explained in my statement that we want to have one common law for young people, the elderly and people with disabilities, that we want to continue the arrangements for the elderly and disabled, and that we want clear rules for the municipalities that choose to have a youth council or another form of participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1241	It was a very long answer, but I'm trying to get an interpretation: that the Council of State is for the law of the council of elders. This is when the arguments from, among other things, Frank J. Jenssen's right is a little strange, when one argues in principle against the law-enforcement of the Council of Youth, but in principle is for the law-enforcement of the Council of Older People. Then my question is: why is it less important to ensure the participation body for young people than for older people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1246	It's not a fundamental question to be for the council of elders. We want to continue today's arrangements, but we do it within a common law. You might as well turn it around and ask the question, is it that we're going to impose everything we're for? That is where the majority in this Chamber say that there must be a room for action also for local democracy – we must have confidence in local politicians and that they also find the best way to involve young people. All those in this Chamber who have spoken so far have said that they are in favour of youth councils. But the key question is whether this is how we, as national politicians, are going to impose everything we are for the municipalities. When I travel around Municipality-Norway – and I assume that the representative also does – I hear many local politicians from many parties who say: Can't you national politicians have some confidence in how we organize our own business, and that we find what's best of local solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1255	Yes, I travel a lot around Municipality-Norway, and they point out a lot of things, but I've rarely heard that it's a wish, for example. removing the legislation of the council of elders, and I have rarely heard that it is a major issue in the municipalities to prevent the participation of young people, but it is possible that the council of state is talking to others other than what I am doing. But the argument for this is precisely to strengthen local democracy, to release more votes, to ensure that more opinions are heard, and that a group that currently has no voting rights and no formal power of influence through elections is given an opportunity to express its opinions. Then, of course, it's up to the elected representatives to decide to what extent one should listen to those opinions. But does the Council of State not see that there is a point in having a law that guarantees children and young people the right to be heard in matters relating to them and which is also enshrined in the Children's Convention and in our own constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1260	The representative said that she had not heard anyone who had as a battle cause that you should prevent participation. No, I don't either. But that's exactly why I trust that local politicians will be able to find a good local solution, and that's what this is all about. It's not whether you're in favour of or against youth councils. Everyone who has spoken so far, from all parties, has said that you are too involved, that you are in favour of youth councils and that it is a fine way to strengthen local democracy. But the question is whether, as national politicians, we should impose by law that municipalities should have it. That's what's the central question. If we have confidence in local politicians, we make a common law that makes local politicians have a framework for participation, but we don't necessarily oblige them to have one solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1265	My question is in the same street. I still do not have a reason why there should be discrimination between youth councils, older people’s councils and advice for people with disabilities. I share the skepticism of the Council of State that we should impose more advice and more commitments on the municipalities, but it is completely impossible for me to defend that there should be discrimination. Young people — at least under 18 years of age, who do not have the right to vote — need the most to have a youth council. Can the Council of State justify the existence of discrimination? And if that's not the case, does the Council of State consider removing the statutory provision that there should be elderly people's council and advice for disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1272	The answer is as simple as today's legislation for the elderly and disabled, and we see no reason to remove that scheme. If you say that you have to impose on the municipalities youth councils, there may be other groups who want to have their own advice. Is it the case that the municipalities should also be required to afford other groups in our society who believe they have the right to be heard? A central question to think about is how far to go in overcoming local democracy. I have to say that I am concerned about the ever-increasing willingness to overcome local democracy through earmarked grants, through detailed management and through new regulatory tasks. What we're doing now is making a common law, making it easy for municipalities, facilitating participation, and I have full confidence that local politicians are going to follow up and listen to youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1277	I said in my speech that youth is those who especially need to have an arena in order to participate and influence local democracy, because they do not have the right to vote. Does the Council share my view that young people have a special need to have their own arena in the municipality, because they cannot participate in elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1282	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1287	I have to follow up on this, because it is not possible to understand why there should in principle be a difference between youth and the elderly. In addition, young people have been given the right to be heard, both in the Constitution, in the UN Convention and in the Children's Act, so this should be a group that needs more lawmaking of such a body than it does. the elderly with the right to vote. The Council of State also confirms that he believes this is important. Then you blow yourself up and talk about not adopting everything you're for. There's no one who's talked about everything, it's about lawmaking a youth council, like 80 pst. of the municipalities and, as the youth organisations unanimously ask us to legislate because they want to be able to participate in democracy in a tidy way also in those municipalities that do not currently have youth councils. What is the real reason why the Council of State is against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1293	I've answered it through a lot of articles. I'm in favour of youth councils, and I'm in favour of participation, not just in the case of youth, but in the case of different groups in the municipality. I think it's a nice way to expand local democracy. This is about – as we have had several rounds – whether we should impose this on municipalities, or whether we should facilitate good participation by municipalities. Let's do the last one. It is a central question whether not other groups will also claim to have a special right to be heard. Then I don't think it will take long for SV to come up with a new representative proposal that the municipalities should be required to have their own advice for other groups as well. Now we have had two debates today. In both debates, a minority in this Chamber has wanted to narrow down local democracy and local autonomy. I believe it is important that some also stand up for local democracy and have confidence in local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1300	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1305	I'm probably the youngest, with my 22 years of life, who keeps posts on the law enforcement of the Youth Council today. As a wholesale commodity representative, I have read the representative proposal with great curiosity. It is important to have the youth's voice in decisions concerning them directly, indirectly or in the near future. Young people care about training schools, leisure activities and recreational clubs. Young people care that the police will be visible, about the cultural house and about the construction of sports facilities. Young people care about the help their grandparents get from the nursing home, and about hospitals. That is why this proposal for a representative is so important. Young people have new votes, they have new views and new angles about things they don't have a point of view before. Adults and older people have a wide range of experiences and experiences that they can rely on when arguing for positions they have chosen. Because youth hasn't experienced and experienced so much yet, creativity is more needed. By including and inviting young people to solve local environmental challenges, an unexpected, surprising and positive outcome can be achieved. The Youth Council is a fine venue for training, development and participation in democratic processes. The Council is politically neutral, and it lowers the threshold of participation. Also, participation in youth councils does not require a political stance. Society is changing rapidly. Therefore, it is important to give young people an arena to express themselves in. The local economy is very tight for most municipalities. Unregulated tasks are then prioritised and restricted to municipalities' freedom of action. It should not be in the municipality's wallet if young people are to be heard or not. Perhaps it is in just the municipalities where the cuts happen that the Youth Council is needed. Young people care about their surroundings, young people think differently than the adults, young people need to express themselves, especially in delayed times. For this reason, the Christian People's Party supports the legalisation of the Youth Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1320	I register the top-right rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party in terms of local self-government. Youth councils must therefore be a narrowing of local democracy, according to the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen. There's an incredible claim. Older people's councils and the councils of disabled people are still required to be statutory, but the law-enforcement of youth councils, a group such as the government's own document, the municipal proposition, said that was systematically under-represented in local government, must therefore be a threat to local democracy. The answer is, of course, on the contrary, something like that. the previous representative argued in an excellent manner. Statutory Youth Council is an investment in local democracy. It's about giving young people a voice, and it's about recruiting all the people who in the future are going to fill the electoral lists for a wide range of parties. The Right Party and the Advance Party have little credibility in strengthening local democracy. We saw that, among other things. yesterday, when the budgetary agreement was presented. Not much was involved in strengthening the ability of local politicians to meet the ambitions of Stortinget and all the tasks we at Stortinget say the municipalities should carry out. According to the Council of State's own logic, we must therefore be confident that the municipalities will keep the youth's votes, but we do not trust that the municipalities will include the disabled and the elderly. Government parties have also called for the removal of the possibility of imposing housing obligations on municipalities – a very clear narrowing of local democracy, I would like to remind you of. Not long ago, there was a proposal to remove the possibility of collecting property taxes from municipalities for works and use, for massive protests from Kommune-Norway. The same applies to the proposal to state the chemist, which is now obviously going to be a half-yearly ritual, but the Right Party and the Advance Party – thank you and the law – did not get through for it last night either. In the extension of that, let's also take the role of the county council – according to the right a level we were to keep, but we were to clear it for tasks. The government is well in the process of cutting regional development funds in a situation of bankruptcy. Both the ownership and governance of Innovation Norway, a significant restriction of regional democracy, must be made public. Then we can continue with the cuts in the party support, as the Right and Advance Party put forward in the budget, and cut in the Sametinget. It's an honest thing to be against lawmaking youth councils, but I might advise the Right Party and the Advance Party to fine-tuning the argument a little, or at least – if you're busy with local democracy – come back strongly in other matters. It's an APB.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1333	I will join wholeheartedly in every word that was now said by the representative Helga Pedersen, and also every word that was said by the representative Simon Molvær Grimstad. It is very strange to hear this – that, in the context of a proposal to extend democracy to young people, it will be narrowed down. This is about allowing more people to take part in the decisions locally, but then it's an attack on local democracy to say that young people are going to do it, while there's no attack on local democracy when people with disabilities and the elderly are going to do it. The council says he's very much for this, but think if there'll be any more and have such advice – then it's really terrible! Now let's decide if we get there. I can reassure the Council of State that I have no such suggestion in my sleeve at all. Then it's the representative Njåstad, who said he thought it was so nice that there was a advice, that he was there listening to them, etc., and that it was very nice. Yes, I'm sure of that, but why don't we listen to youth organisations when they say massively and unambiguously that there is a need to regulate this, so that there is an opportunity in all municipalities, and so that democracy is expanded for young people in all municipalities? Because that's what this is all about. I hear parties here now that know better than the youth how to do this. I don't think that sounds nice. You owe it to local democracy to avoid giving young people the opportunity to formalize their involvement locally. What you're afraid of is very hard to understand. We have regulations to increase the influence of people who have little influence, for example. for the elderly and people with disabilities. There is a need to do the same for young people, for young people do not have the right to vote. The left was up and said that we can lower the voting age to 16 years. Yeah, so does SV. It's very nice, but it's not the opposite of making a youth council now, like the ones who have it, says it works well. Now I know that the parties represented here are represented in the local government around – the major parties most. At least then I expect those parties to take the initiative locally to set up youth councils in those municipalities that don't. You can't stand here and say you're for it, and then say that you have to decide locally, but locally you don't want it. There is a need to give young people more influence both on the provisions being made and on the important choices we are going to make for the future, and that is only what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1348	I have to say that I think this has become a bit strange discussion. We are discussing here today whether we are going to legislate on youth councils, i.e. take the youth seriously. I hear that the representative Jensen from the Right and the Council of State makes this into a discussion about local democracy. This is a discussion about taking the youth seriously. The representative Jensen says that this room, with us as the majority here, does not trust that children and young people's needs are met in local democracy. No, I do not trust that local democracy is capable of always caring for the interests of children and young people. I also believe that the representative, Mr Njåstad, actually underlines why it should be a legalisation of the Youth Council. It's because it's the coincidences, it's the people who decide whether or not it's going to be a youth council, whether or not it's going to work. A combined and coherent youth movement has said that they want this, for very many places where there is, today it becomes more like "good to have" than it actually has some real meaning. Even the Children’s Ombudsman has highlighted the importance of this. They want national guidelines, where the structure, arena, breadth and diversity are to be represented, they will have real influence, they will have financial resources to do this job. I'm not sure I'm going to say that, but I want to say it anyway: I'm very much in favour of local democracy, I've been a municipal politician for 16 years and I've been in the county for a couple of years, and once I felt like I stuck my head in the wall, it was when we tried to get something to care for children and young people's interests, so sometimes it's like I'm in favour of local democracy almost situational. That's why I think we who are sitting here have to take responsibility when our people out there don't want to take responsibility for the youth too. So the Council of State says that there is no need to remove the Board of Senior Officials and the Board of Governors of the disabled. I'm glad to hear that. But I have not yet heard the Council of State reply as to why he then does not want to have a council in which the young will also have the right to co-determination in the same line. I hear the Council of State say that he is afraid that other groups will also be included and demand their own statutory advice. I feel that if you're older, it represents a group that is diverse. If you're young and young, it represents a diverse group. Those with disabilities have their own statutory advice because they are such a special group when it comes to being heard in land policy and planning. So I have to say that I think it's strange that we can't give young people the same rights that they have with regard to being heard really, and not just around the municipalities and the counties, like you do today, that it's a bit like that – I kept saying – "good to have," and then we listen to them when it suits us, but we won't give them real and real opportunities to participate in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1361	It was said that this discussion is about whether we should take the young people seriously or not. I mean, the debate is not about it – he's about the local populace or the Stortinget to make sure that the youth gets serious. There's a dividing line in this room. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left believe that the local populace are very well able to take youth seriously. We have given our whole heart support for the wisdom of having youth councils, and we actually trust that our local, like other local politicians, find good solutions to this, and we see that the 80 pst. In fact, by the municipalities that have youth councils, they have something left to do, and should be inspired to have youth councils themselves. When I hear the rhetoric from the working party in particular, I almost have to wonder: was it the same party that got 203 speakers for a couple of weeks ago? And then representatives go by representative on this pulpit and have zero confidence in their newly elected spokesmen, that they are able to include young people in a good way. If the Progress Party had received 203 spokesmen, I don't think I would have used the forces to argue to legislate for something that the party was for – then I would rather have spent the time saying that now we have to deliver locally and take young people seriously. It is almost a failure statement to their own newly elected spokesmen and newly elected local government that they must use the law and the Stortinge to override their local democracy. My recommendation is that you talk to your local people, and then you get a youth council in place in the workers' party-driven municipalities that don't have youth councils. With that rhetoric, I'm assuming that there won't be many months and weeks before you have it in place. So finally, the representative of Stine Renate Håheim took up the word change with the Council of State, on what is the difference between this and the elderly council and people with disabilities. The council said quite correctly that the big difference is that two of the things are already legal, and there's a big difference between taking away something that's legal and putting in something that's not legal. The question that one should put back is, why did the Labour Party, the Center Party and SV use seven and a half years to find out that they wanted to legislate the Youth Council? In many parts of their government time, there was no focus on this, so one used more than a whole magnification period without making a single suggestion. So it's not very reasonable to shoot at us because we haven't gone into law enforcement, when you've had the opportunity to do it yourself. If I had more speaking time, I would like to return to the rhetoric that we are weakening local democracy. Just look at the local economy we set up, with which no one protests at KS collections, the trust we give, the less override of statesmen. This government and this great majority have nothing to be ashamed of in terms of local democracy's conditions. I think it's clear to all local politicians who are at the KS meeting that a complaint is very little about state control, as one did when they were red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1372	Let me just make it clear for the record that I assume it was Frank J. Jensen and not Frank Bakke-Jensen it was referred to in a previous post here from the pulpit – he has, as far as I know, not been here during this debate. A few comments: I think the Workers' Party has begun to commit itself to a debate technique that is suitable for reflecting on. It has not been long since we had a debate on asylum policy in this country where the representative Håheim went up here and gave good advice to the Right – and to the Progress Party – on how we should act in such a debate. Today, we also receive good advice from the representative Pedersen on how we should act, what arguments we should take to use, and what arguments we should use. I don't know if I'm going to say thank you for the advice, but I note that the Workers' Party needs to use such a debate technique instead of emphasising its own arguments. If anyone is wondering how we've got there that today we have a strongly narrowed-down municipal autonomy, with significant government governance and over-control, which many – including in this room – seem to have gone too far, I think we've come there using the small steps. There have been many small, good and well-meaning steps, each of which has been well-founded, well-considered and difficult to argue against, because everyone has to understand that it has to be. And so we can keep going. In the end, we can just say that the municipalities can stop being lords in their own house, because the Stortinget has basically decided how to organize their daily lives, and how to run their municipality. But it is clear that no one who is for a good cause will accept it as a premiss. Then it's better to be honest. I have to say that the representative Eirin Sund came to me in advance. I was going to ask the Workers' Party – and, to some extent, the representative Sund – about how to approach local democracy. The representative Sund has released the cat from the bag and said that it is situational. The representative Sund was an echo of herself from New Year's New Year's Eve last summer, where she admitted, and so did she now too, that she is very much in favour of local democracy, but sometimes it is very situational – and she continued – because in some municipalities it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that governs, and I think they have not known enough to rule as they should have done, as she said in New Year's Athens. Further from the Sund representative in the same radio debate – and it was like hearing an echo here today: I am too municipal self-government, but it has something to do with politics. The point is that this is just not respect for local democracy. Respect for local democracy is that you also have respect for choosing to do something different than the majority in this room sometimes wanting to do. It's real respect for local democracy – not that you expect all municipalities to move in pace, and if you don't, the Stortinget will legislate on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1387	It seems that we agree, if not otherwise, that it was Frank J. Jensen who was on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1390	It requires a certain musicality to hear differences in rhetoric and substance in this matter. When the representative Jensen, committee chairman Njåstad and the council of state, all of them, uses a language that says that there will be a restriction on the freedom of the municipalities, it has a negative sign. But they're a bit right: yes, there's a certain narrowing of the freedom of the municipalities, they're not going to be allowed to choose youth away in political activity. That's what's going on. And that way, this magnification has been driving municipalities for hundreds of years. So it falls a little bit, I think, because that's basically the opposite that happens – we need to ensure the participation of the inhabitants, also from the young. I'm not going to spend a lot of time, but I want to say that the vote indicates that we're going to look for measures to bring up the political interest. In addition, the number of older people in this country is increasing, so that the participation and activity of young people will become more and more important. Then they have to be trusted and involved in the political work. In addition, I have worked with young people for 30 years – teaching young people. Today, they are considerably more schooled than in the 1980s. They're willing to take responsibility, and it turns out in a lot of ways. If we make arrangements to take care of this, it's a political capital that we can't afford to miss. I understand that we do not win out with law enforcement, but there are regulations announced to look at both the councils of disabled people, the councils of elderly people and the councils of young people. I would strongly urge that the conditions contain provisions that make us more actively involve young people. When I keep this post, it is based on my opinion that the age of authority and the age of voting should still be 18 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1405	Even though I didn't say Frank J. Jensen, I still thought Frank J. Jensen, because Frank B.-Jensen is not in this committee. But of course it should never repeat that I forget the J! To what I said about situational local democracy: I am a hundred percent for local democracy. I've said on the radio before and I'm saying this again, and I mean, sometimes I wish it was situational. I think, for example: it is incredibly stupid when the Right and Advance Party in the municipality after the municipality builds down the beach zone. Then it doesn't cost me a calorie – excuse the expression – to say that I wanted it to be situation-determined, and that there were others who ran. So one can draw this in a way that one will, in terms of how I view local democracy, but I want to protect local democracy, and I think local democracy should be allowed to decide for itself. But in this context, I have – ever since I was in the AUF when I was 13 years old, and until I got into the local government when I was 20 years old – tried to get adult people in a municipality and in a state to understand that the youth is going to be taken seriously. So it might be that, with my understanding that youth is to be taken seriously, I'm not as wise as the others, who think they shouldn't be taken seriously. But I feel that we are here in 2015 and we are discussing the same thing as we did in 1987, and then someone has to take the sense and do what we have to do to ensure the rights of young people in local democracy. So I am very much in favour of local democracy, but I must be allowed to admit from this pulpit that I think there are quite a number of local democracy politicians who make unwise decisions, as I wish they did differently. That's what I mean by "conditional".
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1417	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1423	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1431	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to submit proposals for legislation to ensure that 50 pst. by the staff of each nursery school shall receive training as a nursery teacher.’;» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1459	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of the possibility for the municipality to grant permanent derogations from today’s requirement for pedagogical teacher training for pedagogical leaders.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal, and the Central Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1478	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the phase-in of a crew standard, which assesses the requirement for 50 pst. kindergarten teachers should be part of the plan.» The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal, and the Central Party has notified subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1634	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1644	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1668	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to abolish the right to choose the parliamentary form of government in municipalities and county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1697	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the government to present amendments to the municipal law which require decisions relating to the outsourcing/offer of municipal tasks to be taken by the local government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1714	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of municipal or non-municipal operations, ensure full transparency around key quality indicators, including the manning situation, in the provision of services for which the municipalities are responsible.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1761	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they want to vote against. So this is a sharp vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-24.ana.ud762e1950	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
