ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e43	The representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, André N. Skjelstad and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called the alternates, because Buskerud County Anne Sandum and Tone Heimdal Brataas and for Rogaland County Unn Therese Omdal, have taken the seat. Multiple permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Are HealthFor Buskerud County: Lavrans KierulfFor Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell LjunggrenFor Rogaland County: Marie Liones BrekeFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunhild Berge Stange
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e123	Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e131	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e134	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I am delighted to propose a knowledge-based and humane drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e139	The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e142	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Kjersti Toppe, Trine Skei Grande, Sveinung Rotevatn, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to suggest that Norway should work for a ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e147	The representative, Mr Lagen Wagzlid, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e151	On behalf of the representatives of Christian Tunning Bjørnø, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Stine Renate Håheim, Lise Christoffersen, Sonja Mandt, Knut Storberget and myself, I am delighted to present two representative proposals. The first is a proposal for a representative on the quality of the crisis centre supply, and the second is a proposal for a representative to strengthen the protection of people exposed to power, threatens the power, persecution and stalking.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e156	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e170	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e181	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and broad presentation, which, in my view, underlines the broad consensus it is in foreign policy in Norway. I belong to a generation that so much progress internationally when the Berlin Wall fell, Nelson Mandela escaped from prison and created a new South Africa, the dictatorships fell in Latin America and we saw the hope that the Oslo process would bring peace between Palestinians and Israelis. We in my generation may have been too optimistic in our interpretation of the changes in Russia in the last ten years. At the same time, we are reminded of the following: when it becomes legitimate to attack homosexuals as a symbol of something that threatens the national ideal of men, and when gay organisations are labeled as agents, in my opinion there is a symptom of a lack of pluralism in general in a society. This is exactly what we see in Russia today, and now the Nordic Council of Ministers office in St. Petersburg experiences the same under the paragraphs on foreign agents. We see leaders who don't feel safe enough to have a critical press, but who want to show strength by using military power. Instead of economic progress, innovation and modernisation, nationalism and military aggression are served. We stand together with the EU countries in condemning the annexation of Crimea and in EU sanctions – not only because we are loyal to our allies, but because we believe it is important to respond to violations of international law. In the north, we still have good cooperation with the Russian people. We have a much closer cooperation today than during the cold war on environmental monitoring, fisheries management, search and rescue, research, people-to-people cooperation and trade. It must be further developed and intensified. From the Kirkenes we hear the wish for a new border station to make border crossings easier. Cultural cooperation with Russia should be strengthened in today's situation. Today, our people in the north care for our foreign policy interests by cooperating with the Russians in the north. It is trade and economic cooperation that can bring progress to the Russian people in the long term. Russia must stop using military power and respect international law, and trade policy cooperation between Europe and Russia should be established. It will contribute to a stronger Europe. The reduction of barriers to trade brought peace and progress to Europe. Therefore, we will contribute to the further reduction of barriers to trade in goods and services globally, in parallel with the building of global environmental and labour standards. Norway is a small player internationally. That is why we have a great interest in ensuring common rules and predictability in the field of trade. That is why we also have strong interests in the success of the ongoing TISA negotiations, which deal with common rules for trade in services. Compared to other countries, we have a relatively open economy. However, it is a prerequisite that a TISA agreement does not weaken the political space for action related to control and management of public services and welfare services. There must be no obstacles to regulating matters such as consumer protection, health, safety, the environment and employee standards. It is a prerequisite for us that TISA does not impose the privatisation, deregulation or outsourcing of any public service at national or local level. It also concerns the possibility, through policy decisions, of reintroducing public ownership and governance in sectors that have been privatised in the past. At the same time as trade makes us increasingly dependent on each other, we see that nationalistic forces are gaining greater prominence in several European countries. Combating unemployment and economic progress creates less ground for such attitudes. It requires increased cooperation between Norway and the EU. We will cooperate with the European Union in the fight against terrorism. The recruitment of young people from several European countries to terrorist organisations requires closer European cooperation. Cultural cooperation with European countries helps to strengthen Norway’s visibility in Europe. This work should be strengthened and not weakened, as the government's policy unfortunately contributes. Since 1990, the proportion of people living in extreme poverty — and millions — has been halved, and far more countries are participating in international trade. Many countries that have asked for more assistance today are primarily concerned with foreign investment. The stable governance and security of the population are the basis for countries to exit poverty. Pluralism and diversity of opinion are prerequisites for progress. We see that most poor people in the world today live in middle-income countries and not in poor countries. It requires a better distribution between poor and rich in-house in the middle-income countries. Distribution policies, a good tax system and education for all are important for the benefit of economic growth. Women's participation in the labour market is the reason why growth is high in many countries. Women's oppression is a violation of fundamental human rights, but is also a cause of stagnation and lack of economic progress. Economic independence, the right to abortion and the prevention and absence of violence must be at the top of our development policy agenda. Education of women will contribute to this. Just as the view of homophilis testifies to the lack of pluralism in our neighbouring country, the lack of women's liberation becomes a symptom of lack of modernity and regression in some places in West Africa and the Middle East. The safety situation of women and children is particularly vulnerable when extreme groups are emerging. The Labour Party supports the Norwegian contribution to Iraq, where we enable Iraqi and Kurdish soldiers to take care of their own security. The path to a political solution to the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II that we see in Syria is difficult. But the first step is to stop ISIL and contribute even more humanitarianly to give the children growing up in this situation a better everyday life. But if we look at the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis, there is a political solution. Only political will is needed to bring the plan to life. Violence must be stopped on both sides, and we must see real willingness to negotiate with both sides. Illegal settlements prevent a peaceful solution, and therefore we want Norway to discourage the purchase of goods produced in occupied countries. We will recognise Palestine together with other countries if we do not see any progress in the peace negotiations. Moderate forces on the Palestinian side must experience progress, unless I fear that extreme forces will gain increased excitement. What makes the situation in the Middle East extra dangerous is nuclear weapons. It is not possible to see the strategic importance of these weapons in any war. If they are used, it will in any case contribute to a humanitarian disaster. We must continue to work in the nuclear negotiations with Iran and support the work on an international ban on nuclear weapons. The Labour Party wants Norway to take a leading role in this work and calls for a clearer line from the government in the area of humanitarian disarmament. We were the drivers of the first Oslo Conference on Humanitarian Disarmament, and we must take the lead in this work also in the further process. The experience of Iraq suggests that there is a risk of leaving Afghanistan prematurely. We will continue our commitment there and must ensure that the assistance is maintained at a high level. We agreed to stop Afghanistan as a marshal for international terrorism. We cannot withdraw until the Afghans are confident that they can meet their own security needs. The fourth year was filled with more crises than in a long time. Fortunately, there are many countries in the world that accept refugees, Jordan and Lebanon do it from Syria, and Ethiopia does it from South Sudan and Eritrea. We must also take responsibility for refugees and support the countries that contribute. While the opposition government parties would cut aid to Ethiopia, they now want to strengthen cooperation with a country that takes a significant responsibility for ensuring more stability in the region. That's good. We are told of cruel genocide and leaders who do not take responsibility in the negotiations on South Sudan. These events need to be reviewed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes great responsibility for the peace process in South Sudan and needs alliance partners in the region. All the crises we saw last year, which continue this year, show the need for a stronger UN. Stronger funding of the UN organisations and the World Health Organisation could stop the Ebola virus in the past. The UN was able to prevent an acute food crisis among Syrian refugees just before Christmas. But funding must be stable and predictable, so that the UN organisations do not go on money hunting every time a crisis arises. Now the help agencies in Norway are telling us about a great need for more money for Syrian refugees and for Syria. We must listen to them in our work and ensure predictability in the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II. The 1 pst goal should be to create a cross-political consensus so that we can have a better discussion about the content of the assistance. In the United Kingdom, Parliament recently adopted a law on a certain level of assistance. Why can we not adopt such a principle decision on the level of assistance also in Norway? In the last year, we've seen a lot of major disasters in the world. It contributed to a record high number of meetings of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the good cooperation we have on difficult matters. We contribute to a stronger Norwegian voice when we stand together in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e238	I would like to begin by commending the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a statement that gave a very good overview of the conflicts that exist in the world today. The basic plan of the government's security policy consists of NATO, the EU, the United Nations and cooperation with our neighbouring states in the Nordic region. NATO has been and will be a guarantor of the security of allies and Norway. In view of this, I am very surprised and dismayed that the defence party, the Central Party and the Left, are now joining SV on a proposal for a representative that was submitted earlier today. An unconditional strength for Norway’s defence and security policy has been a consensus. Do we really want to help throw Norway into a populist no-man's country of security policy? I am surprised and worried about this development. NATO's strategic concept says that as long as nuclear weapons are in the world, yes, so does NATO. It was last clarified by Jens Stoltenberg in March last year. I would assume that he still means the same thing. That SV, which was established in the 1960s on its NATO resistance, makes proposals that could weaken our NATO connection, is not surprising. SV has stood for a different line every year. In addition, this is very bad timing. At a time when we in Norway need attention and support from our alliance partners for our interests in the north, we cannot doubt Norway's will and ability to follow NATO's decision, NATO's concept, and at the same time expect help. It'll be playing rule with our security. Of course, all sensible people are opposed to the use of nuclear weapons and the cruel consequences of it, but we have to be realistic and realize that this is a deterrent and a balance of strength, which actually ensures that it is not used. The Committee, or parts of it, has returned from the great military exercise in Finnmark. I want to remind you of what scenarios the defense in today's situation had to operate within the big exercise. We were reminded that there is deterrence, demonstration of strength and the will to resist that will safeguard our interests – not the appeal of populist proposals, which jeopardize our entire security and territorial sovereignty. Norway’s security requires the countries of the alliance to have a common understanding and to contribute to the alliance. What security guarantees do we have? It is an important question, in the light of today’s proposal for a representative. I would like to have a discussion about nuclear weapons, but I would like the parties that support Norwegian NATO membership to participate in a debate on our security in the light of our values and our obligations. I would also like to remind you of Putin's statement yesterday on Russia's natural right to deploy nuclear weapons in Crimea. It's today's reality – whether or not. Within Russia, citizens' freedoms have gradually been restricted since Putin took power. On February 27, one of the foremost Russian oppositionists, Boris Nemtsov, a man who was constantly monitored, was killed in Moscow. Can we hope that Russia will change course? Yes, hope is always allowed, but unfortunately there is little to suggest it. That is why we need to adapt our policies so that this can be a lasting reality. Russia is unpredictable, but not opaque. Europe and the West may have discovered this late, but it is clearer now than ever. Russian ambitions are more about influence and value-added than about land. It is less about Donbass and more about creating a new European order. There are Western values, trade and liberal rule of law that must be brought to life, values that other parts of the world are fortunately pursuing and fulfilling to an increasing degree. Europe has been united in its restrictive measures against Russia for one year now. I think it's in its place to underline this achievement. Norway is dependent on the maintenance of an international legal order because it is linked to territorial integrity. Fortunately, most countries share this view.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e257	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. The presentation showed the broad range of issues of foreign policy that are most central in the global context, but also the priorities of the government were convincingly highlighted. On this day it is exactly 68 years since President Harry S. Truman presented the so-called Truman doctrine in a speech to the House of Representatives. A new strategy was staggered in the face of communist regimes. American foreign policy should, from this point in time, have an instigation against communism as a primary principle. History has clearly shown us that totalitarian ideologies and regimes fall ultimately. Some are more viscous than others, but they eventually fall as well. In the face of radical Islamism, the associations quickly come to other totalitarian ideologies such as Nazism, fascism and communism. We have witnessed for a long time how the radical Islamists have fought with people and with countries, with different believers, with women and with children. Either they call themselves Al Qaida, ISIL, Boko Haram, Hamas, Hezbollah, Taliban or the Islamic Republic of Iran, we've seen them and got them branded. Their specialty may be to burn down girls' schools, hang gays in hiccups, hijack planes or cut the heads of Western journalists, use innocent civilians as shields or to provide funding to groups that care for dirty and destabilizing work. The greatest ideological challenge of our time is not Nazism, fascism or communism. Three of the heads of the totalitarian troll are cut off, the fourth remains. It's this face I've just referred to above. Maybe it's time to put in place a new trumandoctrine that's aimed at the remaining fourth head of the troll. Radical Islamism must be combated in the same way as we were able to combat Nazism, fascism and communism. Let's not forget that the vast majority of the victims of the hierarchies of these Islamists are Muslims themselves. That is why the fight against Islamism is also a struggle for freedom for moderate Muslims. When it burns in Islam's house, it's our duty to support under those who will stop the extremists from throwing petrol at this fire. The Foreign Minister's statement shows that the primary objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests – our values, our security and our well-being. It's always an interesting academic exercise to discuss what's in this with Norwegian interests. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is concerned about something essential when he links the Norwegian accession to the fight against extreme Islamic groupings such as ISIL and Boko Haram against Norwegian interests. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is absolutely right. If terrorists were to gain long-term control of larger land, this could also pose a threat to Norway. Therefore, it is also in our own interest to participate in the fight against the spread of the geographical and ideological impact of these Islamic groups. Russia's aggressive behaviour towards Ukraine has triggered the biggest security crisis since it called the war in our part of the world. Russia has been met with massive condemnation and punishment from almost an entire world. Not even Belarus or Kazakhstan have been particularly keen to move out in support of Putin's ta-seg-to-right policy towards the independent country of Ukraine. Over time, developments in Russia have gone wrong. Many of us who are happy in Russia and the Russian people are naturally disappointed. But being disappointed doesn't help. The best thing we can do for the Russian people is stand united in the reaction to what the leaders of the Russian people are now doing. Historically, Norway and Russia have had a good neighbourhood. Instead of fighting each other, we have had pragmatic cooperation on matters and in areas where we have a common interest in coordination and cooperation. It is a hope that the good neighbourhood and cooperation can grow even stronger in the years to come. But you're a bad friend and a bad neighbor if you don't dare say from one side to the other when evolution goes in the wrong direction, and when the other shows disrespect for other states and international rules. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, broad international support gives legitimacy and makes them more effective. There are a few out there who think we need to understand and respect that Russia has interests in Ukraine, and that this can explain why they act as they do. But Ukraine is an independent country, and the Ukrainian people must choose their own path for the future. If this means in the long run that they are applying for EU and NATO membership, it is up to the Ukrainian people to decide for themselves – not us and not Russia. The eternal conflict in the Middle East between the State of Israel and the Palestinians does not seem to have become less eternal. All sides have a responsibility to go on their own and to contribute to the establishment of a space for action that could end in a peace settlement. But one cannot help but say that one of the main problems is Islamic terrorist groups such as Hamas and Islamic sacred war. It is Hamas who must bear the primary responsibility for the last Gaza war. If you want to get anywhere in the direction of the peace trail, a total disarmament of Hamas and other terrorist groups is absolutely necessary. Israel must also show the will to find a solution, but as long as they are surrounded by groups of weapons in the hand that want the destruction of the State of Israel, it cannot be expected that Israel will take the first step. It is therefore not particularly difficult to understand the negativity and pessimism of Israel in the ongoing negotiations with Iran. Everything is not going the wrong way here in the world, although it is quick to conclude like this, based on what I have just talked about. Global poverty reduction in recent years has been formidable, nor has China been excluded from its role and contribution to this. Help can ease, but it can't cure. Assistance may also work against its purpose. That is why I am pleased that we now have a government that knows both how to prioritise and how to control. Economic growth, the release of the economy, the promotion of nutrition and job creation are the main ingredients of successful development policies, but also education, health and not least the focus on women's health and participation in education and working life are particularly important, and therefore I am also pleased that the government prioritises this. In connection with the fact that we have just received a big message about development and human rights, I would also like to say that I am pleased with it and that there was finally such a message. In respect of the fact that we have some values on which this country is built, and also in respect of the fact that we take responsibility for taxpayers' money, which is the money we actually spend on helping other countries out there, human rights must also be included in a completely different way than in previous development policy. We cannot both fight for the rights of homosexuals in this country and, at the same time, close our eyes to this fight when it goes on beyond the borders of Norway. NATO is more than just a defence cooperation. NATO is also a foreign policy, even domestic policy. NATO is the main international organisation Norway is a member of, and the carrier of NATO cooperation is the United States; Norway’s main friend and allies. NATO has not become less important over time, rather on the contrary. In conclusion: It is tempting to say that the former Prime Minister of the Red-Green Government, Jens Stoltenberg, went off and became Secretary-General of NATO, and to part of his former government traps lost his telephone number. Today’s proposal for a ban on nuclear weapons may indicate this – whether it is boundless naivety or a limitless naivety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e295	Think of a different situation we are discussing this year about foreign policy than what we did last year! That is why we must react sharply when Europe again experiences a great power that occupys and annexes parts of other countries. Russia's attack on Ukraine is the result of an aggressive interest policy. It infringes international law and the right of States to self-determination. That is why it was quite appropriate that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, was clear in his speech about Russia's war acts in Ukraine. In the new year, Europe’s major cities experienced two new estimates of Islamist terror – first in Paris, then in Copenhagen. The killings were abominable acts, inspired by a sick ideology. The terrible thing that happened there, however, was just the tastes of the cruel acts that countless fellow people in the Middle East and North Africa are subjected to. Among the worst are ISIL, Al Qaida and Boko Haram. It tears in the heart when innocents are beheaded, when prisoners of war are executed in thousands, when Christians and others are killed for their faith, and when homosexuals are thrown out of houses to die. We condemn this. However, there is an additional dimension that I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take a special initiative to illuminate and counteract. Areas that have had Christian congregations for nearly two thousand years are now being emptied of Christians. It can have fatal consequences for the life - vision diversity for which the Middle East has long been known. The struggle stands for respect for the freedom of thought and faith. The landings of ISIL in Syria and Iraq are particularly dangerous. Their territorial control uses them to create a fright regime. It is in such a contrast that most clearly sees the importance of democracy, the rule of law and human rights – which we in our society often take for granted. It is in contrast to the persecution and killing of different believers and thinking we see how inalienable freedom of expression and faith is, and how fundamental respect for human dignity is. It is in such a light that we understand that foreign policy should not only take care of Norwegian interests, but also promote values that cannot be measured in crowns. It shows the need for a long-term and good development policy that ensures stable countries and that builds nations through education, health and business development. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs not only focused on Norwegian interests, but also on strengthening the value base of foreign policy. We have broad consensus in Norway on the broad lines of foreign policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs continues this in the five main lines he drew up. We value that. Let me deal with a matter that engages strongly in the Christian People's Party. It's been 70 years since the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were hit by nuclear bombs. It gave a rough end to the world war, but the humanitarian consequences were enormous, terrible and long-lasting. It was therefore so important that the Non-Proliferation Agreement entered into force in 1970. It prohibits nuclear weapons. One exception was made — in order to have the agreement adopted: the five countries with nuclear weapons had legal status as nuclear powers, but also an obligation to disarm, with a view to the full liquidation of all nuclear weapons. We must not underestimate the fact that agreements have been reached on the reduction of strategic nuclear weapons. In the 1990s, the START agreements were concluded, and in 2010 the US and Russia agreed to cut another third. The UN Secretary-General referred to the new agreement as an important milestone in international efforts to promote disarmament and to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons. This has to be valued, but we're far from the goal. The humanitarian consequences and the risks associated with the world stockpiles of nuclear weapons have been well elucidated by the humanitarian initiative. I share the commitment that Huitfeldt also had in his contribution here instead on behalf of the Workers' Party, and the commitment that also permeates the proposal of the representative presented today. I look forward to the treatment of it by Stortinget, and the Christian People's Party will invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs to prepare an offensive Norwegian position before the Supervisory Conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement this year. Norway must be a driving force in the long-term work of banning nuclear weapons – we must never give up!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e316	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive and good coverage of foreign policy and for many and important problem settings. The distribution shows that there is a wide deal in many areas, but also different views in some areas – and I will come back to it. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that security policy is a major challenge, both linked to the emergence of terrorism, the commitment to freedom of expression and human rights and destabilization in several countries, which give great cause for concern. Together with several members of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, I spent this week two days in Finnmark practicing in Joint Viking. It's sometimes good to come out of Oslo and central Norway and talk to people, listen to people and not least take a morning trip in Finnmark and reflect on the situation we're up in, at a time when Norway is right, together with allies, condemns our neighboring country, Russia, its unsustainable behavior in Ukraine. There are thousands of Russians in Finnmark. There is a lot of cross-border activity going on. A short time ago, the Minister of Defense said that Norway’s relationship with Russia would never be normalized. Those were harsh words, but understandable at a time when we stand behind the government's line towards Russia. Nevertheless, I hope, without being naive, that in the long term we can get a different hold in Russia, and that in the long term we can normalize the relationship. But I say 'on sight', because today is not possible. Nevertheless, it is important for the north, for Finnmark and the northern part of our country, that neighbouring country cooperation can continue, and that we build on the people-to-people cooperation that is in the region. The Foreign Minister spoke of the refugee situation as being the worst since the Second World War. Norway made a significant contribution to remedying the Syria crisis last year. I'm very happy about that. It was an exceptional situation, and the Central Party suggested a historic increase in humanitarian aid in its alternative budget this fall. The refugee aid also tells them that they have the capacity to help much more if they get the support they need. It is rare that Norway can do so much for as many people as when we grant humanitarian aid to, among other things. Syria, Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon. The government has come to the conclusion that they will send military personnel to Iraq. The center party is skeptical about it. I have to ask, does the government have a clear plan for what one will achieve with this? How will one achieve it? We know that we have very bad experiences in the last few years with intervention wars. The development of corks in Libya, Iraq or Afghanistan should ensure that Western intervention always provides solutions. Not in any of those countries have we been closed in creating stable societies. Norway is not a military power, but a humanitarian power. We can contribute further in the humanitarian field. The representative, Halleraker, is today shocked by the fact that the Centre Party and the Left agree with SV that Norway should take the lead in the work on the ban on nuclear weapons. It is exactly the same argument that was used when the proposal that Norway should take a leading role in the work of an international ban on landmines would become a reality. There was a reality in 1999, with Norway in a leading role. It's exactly the same argument that was used, the time when Åslaug Haga, former leader of the Center Party, suggested that Norway take the lead in the work to ban the class weapons. There was a successful work with Norway in the driver's seat. So the representative Halleraker can take it easy: the centre party stands 100 pst. behind NATO membership and alliance. But: Norway has a self - centered voice in the world community. Within the alliance, Norway can work to get a ban on nuclear weapons. The representative proposal is not aimed specifically at NATO, it is directed towards the whole world community and towards an area where I believe one across the party must agree that the humanitarian consequences are irreparable if these weapons are used. So I hope that, when that proposal is being handled, we will move away from the old argument where one pushes NATO forward – it's with respect to reporting the wrong argument – and that we can go into those open-minded discussions and find something that can lead us forward in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e335	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a very good presentation, focusing on the important and big things, as I see it. But I want to bring in some nuances, and the debate has made me also want to bring in some new topic. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that ‘the primary objective of foreign policy is to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests — our values, our security and our well-being’. I agree, but it must also be the objective of foreign policy that we should be involved in developing the world into a better place for all people living on our common planet, built on our values and on our starting point, because we believe that our values are part of developing society – to good societies to live in for people. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right when he points out how extreme poverty has been reduced and how many indicators are moving in the right direction in the evolution of the world from about. 1970, when some of us who work here now in the hall were born. But I miss something. What I may need to point out is the women's and gender perspective, which was not so prominent in the foreign minister's presentation. I want to mention an example. The NRC on Wednesday reported changes to the law in Iran to make women more lawless. They are deprived of the right to use contraception, but you make a standard with two wives as a general rule, plus that a man can have as many temporary wives as he wants, according to the law. Women have reduced access to work. Today only 17 pst are working. by women, the majority of university students are women. Girls down to the age of nine can be punished for moving outside without following a dress code. This happens in a country where violence in close relationships is widespread. Lifting our values, like gender equality, requires a continuous effort. It also requires an effort at international level, and we need to raise those issues. On the other hand, what I am very pleased about, and very satisfied with, in the Foreign Minister's statement, is what he says about economic development, poverty reduction, the commitment to knowledge and innovation and, in particular, the green shift. The green shift in economic growth is absolutely fundamental to sustainable development. Together with the Left, this government has put the green shift on the national agenda, and we can do it internationally. I am very pleased that the cooperation parties agree that we are now going to pursue an ambitious climate policy, and the Left believes that a dialogue with the EU will enable us to advocate the EU's overall target of 40 pst. cut, and that it will contribute to a stronger climate response. So, about the security policy. There was a strong dose Right needed to come here today. I have to say that all that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the statement on security policy, I can join as a liberal. But I want to stay a little bit by what's really threatening us today. What threatens us today is completely different from what we usually associate with what the Defense is supposed to help us with. What threatens us today is that we sometimes act with double standards, that we don't realize that Guantánamo is perhaps one of the largest "advertising agencies" for those who want to recruit Islamists, that the double standards that we have in the West are part of and lay the basis for recruitment to the worst threats facing our society today. Therefore, it is important to have an argument that relates both from the inside and the outside. That's why it's weird to hear the representative Halleraker argue first that we're going to fight the nuclear weapons that were used in war, and then to harp on Putin, who uses the same argument to deploy the same nuclear weapons. I believe it is our job internationally to ensure that the weapons that are not to be weapons used in war because of the humanitarian consequences are not to be used, and then we have to fight for it to actually happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e350	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good deal. A lot of things we disagree about, but there's a lot of important things we're some about in Norway, like the commitment to education in aid, like the clear condemnation of Russia. I also want to say that I share his starting point, that 2014 was an extreme year in international politics, but much of the extreme can continue if we don't handle it properly. After a year and a half with a new government, I will use my post in connection with the distribution to say a little about what I think is missing. The first defect is not really a government deficit, but a deficiency, or a problem, in Norwegian foreign policy debate, what I would call the ‘unitity disease’ – the notion that if everyone thinks the same thing, we are stronger. But it applies in foreign policy as in all other fields: where it is thought to be equal, it is thought to be too small. It's a strength to have different visions, to have meaning breaking, because that's what will produce good solutions, as long as we have the ability, when it's serious, to stand out together. That is why we need more – and not less – debate on Norwegian foreign policy. I thought I saw a very clear turn from the government towards placing additional emphasis on self-interest in foreign policy over the world's collective, common interests. The self-interest in economic and security policy predominates, and one has to go to page 9 before poverty and climate enter as an important topic. When one comes to evolution, we can read quite early on the following: ‘To counter and prevent conflict in these regions is Norwegian interest policy. Successful development efforts provide ground for a rapidly growing globalised middle class that demands Norwegian goods and services.’ It is difficult to be an international leader if one too clearly puts itself first. In many of the conflicts where we say the right thing, what we do next is what we decide. This week is the tenth week in a row there are demonstrations all over the world in support of Saudi blogger Raif Badawi, who has been whipping in Saudi Arabia. Of course, we and most others protest against it. But do we take the consequences of this in other parts of our policy? It's the test of whether we see the ownership first or the concern of those who need it most, first. I also think I see a government with a lack of will to be leader even when it's difficult, not only when it's easy – the lack of will to be the leader, the one who takes a noise for important progress needs to be. In climate policy, the leader is missing when it comes to using the oil fund internationally. That leader is missing in his due diligence to receive several Syrian refugees and manage the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean. And now we might also see the tendency that leader is missing in nuclear policy. I've been in Hiroshima, I've met several of those who survived. No person with insight into what happened will defend the extreme consequences of nuclear bombing on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, to which the representative Ropstad was inside. There's absolutely the most inhuman weapon in the world, and while the other weapons of mass destruction are banned, it's not nuclear weapons. So progress has been made in the past, but we now have two decades of stagnating behind us, but we also have the most promising international initiative for banning nuclear weapons, for delimiting them and for sheding light on the humanitarian consequences. Nuclear weapons don't make us safer – not Norway, not Europe, not Russia. It makes us more uncertain about having nuclear weapons. The risk of spreading is greater than before. Several countries have them, and the risk of a mishandling is greater than before. Thus, there is so much support in the Norwegian economy and otherwise to work for a ban. I think the government is making a big mistake, and I believe the Right and the Advance Party, not least here in the Chamber, are making a big mistake when they use expressions like "frightening" and when they go to frontal attacks on a broad desire for a ban. I have marked it as Red Cross's tweet from its account today: ‘First possibility of 70 years for banning nuclear weapons, the government chooses to destroy instead of using’. It was Red Cross's words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e383	First, I would like to thank you for a lot of good input and for a good debate on important topics, so far. I want to start by saying that the lights are off in Syria. Eight out of ten lights have gone to Syria since the conflict started four years ago, showing a new report based on satellite images of the war-torn country. Four years ago, Syria was an intermediate country. Today it is a humanitarian disaster. It shows the importance of avoiding war and conflict and of prevention. In this context, development policies, creating the basis for development, against extremism and terrorism, are crucial. In the presentation I chose to conclude that these problems have brought us closer. We've seen terrorist attacks in Copenhagen and in Paris. When there are problems in the Middle East, in Maghreb, in Sahel and in the Horn of Africa, this also concerns us. So it has a policy dimension of interest, but first and foremost we are facing other people in distress because of the humanitarian imperative. Of course, Norway should contribute, and we should contribute more. That is why we have also greatly increased humanitarian appropriations in recent years, and that is something we will continue to do in the future, because it is also necessary in Syria. We see that it is more necessary than ever to find a political solution to the crisis in Syria. The representative of Navarsete raised the question of whether we have a clear plan now in Iraq. I'm the first to say and admit that what we're experiencing now in Syria and in Iraq with this brutal terrorist and extremist organization ISIL's progress is a challenge that we actually weren't familiar with a year ago. What we've seen after decades of success is that this development is not linear. We cannot take for granted that the good results we have achieved will continue. That's why we have to fight for what we've achieved, we have to stand up for the values we believe in, we have to stand up for the principles, we have to stand up for human rights. In addition, we must try to do what we can – in a very complex situation that has arisen in Iraq – to prevent further progress for ISIL and that type of group. Building capacity with the Iraqi army and with the peshmerga, which is the military part of the defense of the Kurds in the north, I believe is a proper step. But it has to be followed up by political steps, it has to be followed up by Prime Minister Al-Abadi, so that it becomes a truly inclusive government, so one does not isolate 20 pst. by the people of Iraq, who are sunnier. Questions have also been raised by the representative of Skei Grande about gender equality. I can join the points of the representative, and Skei Grande can trust that the government is working on a broad front to promote equality. Not least is the historical effort we are now making in education, especially for girls and marginalized groups in war and conflict, an enormous boost for women and girls. But in the big news of human rights, for which the representative is the case rapporteur, we have also committed ourselves to strengthening the work of ensuring women's reproductive rights, putting them into practice, and gaining international acceptance for sexual rights. Women's rights are under pressure globally, and we see setbacks that we hadn't imagined a decade ago. We also see this related to other minorities, whether they are Christians in Mosul, or whether other religious minorities are under pressure around the world. This is an important part of the government's human rights work. Then I would also like to stress that this with disarmament is essential. We are facing an important non-proliferation conference in New York in just over a month. We all share the vision of a nuclear-free world. The humanitarian initiative taken, not least in Oslo, shall be brought into the Conference within the framework of that Conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e402	On the part of the Workers' Party, we will be careful to distort the balance between government and growth in foreign policy issues. However, the Minister of Foreign Affairs told me in the Political Quarter before Christmas that he would take into account the great majority of people who stood out when it came to having a more offensive attitude in the work against nuclear weapons. It was a slightly different approach we heard from the Secretary of State and Vice-Chairman of the Foreign and Defence Committee at the NRK this morning, when it was clearly argued against this work. So my question is, how will the Foreign Minister follow up this work? It is quite clear that, on the part of Stortinget, there is a large majority in favour of an international ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e409	As I said in my post, we all share the vision of a nuclear-free world. Nuclear weapons represent a major risk and cannot distinguish civil from military. There will be a significant conference in New York in a month – on the Non-Proliferation Agreement. In the context of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, Norway is under full pressure to further disarmament among those with nuclear weapons. And in particular, it is essential that nuclear weapons do not spread, that non-governmental actors do not have access to nuclear weapons, and that there are no more countries that get nuclear weapons. Of course, at the Conference on the Non-Proliferation Agreement, we will follow up the humanitarian initiative – which was launched in Oslo – on the vision of a nuclear-free world. The challenge is that today there is no political basis for – neither in Europe nor globally – a ban, but the vision of nuclear freedom will be the basis for the work we are doing in this conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e418	Norway is a NATO country. It gives us a slightly different role in foreign policy than for example. Austria. Two other countries that have also indicated an interest in this work are Iceland and Denmark. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider establishing a political basis for an international ban on nuclear weapons, possibly in cooperation with Iceland and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e423	We have now had dialogue with Denmark – in front of the NPT conference – to find out where they have their priorities. My understanding is that they focus on disarmament, an area where we haven't seen progress since 2010. Obama has offered a third reduction in the U.S. nuclear arsenal. We have also not seen any special progress in this matter of non-proliferation, so we have to work on that. As has also been established by the former Labour Party leader and NATO's current Secretary-General: nuclear weapons remain part of NATO's strategy as long as nuclear weapons exist. Today, we see that there is a basis for continuing the work on the humanitarian initiative, that the goal and vision are: no nuclear weapons. However, the political basis for a ban does not exist today in the current discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e430	As I said, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation and for a good speech today. There's an inconspicuous situation you see, and there's a challenging situation we're in. Today’s debate is marked by this – and, to the extent, the debate on nuclear weapons, which we are looking forward to the Committee having to deal with the proposal for a representative. It is an important field for which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible, and which I am pleased that he spent time in his presentation. It's development policy. There are some exciting changes, and the Christian People's Party has been concerned that some things will happen: a clearer focus on themes and about land, for example. prioritisation of higher education and priority health, industrial development, etc. – and also focus more of the assistance on the poorest countries. It would have been exciting to get the Foreign Minister to the Stortinget with his own policy statement to get a full focus on the whole of the aid. Is there anything the Foreign Minister might think of joining us?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e439	First, I would like to thank you for the comments related to both the presentation and the focus that were in the presentation on development policy. Of the five main lines of government policy, development policy is one and climate is another, and the two things are very closely linked. I believe and hope that in the statement I made to the Storting I drew a bigger picture of the developmental challenges we face. Some thought that I was spending too much time on development policy and was too much on development. I believe we have now seen even more clearly that development policy is important for developing countries, but it is also important in a broader global context. In the last period, there was no policy statement by the Minister for Development. I have so far prioritised trying to integrate it into the foreign policy statement, because I think it is so closely related.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e448	In the speech to the representative Halleraker in today's debate, and from the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in today's Political Quarter, a picture was made of the fact that the proposal for a ban on nuclear weapons cannot be reconciled with an offensive view of NATO membership, and almost is a commitment to NATO. Does the Foreign Minister share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e453	Let me first give you a brief reflection. We are in a situation where Russia announced yesterday that they will deploy, or at least have a right to deploy, nuclear weapons in Crimea. We see that there is a danger that new states will acquire nuclear weapons. Non-proliferation work is absolutely essential, and it is essential to get those who have nuclear weapons to rust down. Putting the issue of the ban on nuclear weapons at the head, and nuclear weapons are part of NATO’s strategy, adopted in 2012, as a binding political declaration – those declarations are binding – is not in line with our NATO commitments. I don't think we're going to get there, because we share the vision of a nuclear-free world. But we have to be very careful in the difficult security policy landscape we now have, raising doubts about Norway's position on NATO's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e460	I must first comment that there is a little difference between putting things on the top and putting things on the agenda. There's a pretty big political space between there. But I want to ask you something. I must admit that there was a lot more I should have had, but I had five minutes. There was probably something more foreign minister would have had with him, too, if he had had the opportunity. And one of the things that is not mentioned so much, but that was the big thing on the agenda here for many years, is Afghanistan. I really just want to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs a challenge back on something that he has hardly mentioned, but that has been a large part of Norwegian foreign policy and a large part of the debate in this room for ten years. I want to give him the opportunity to say something about Afghanistan and Afghanistan's role in Norwegian foreign policy, and that we should not forget the efforts we have made, the victims we have made, to bring security to that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e465	I'm well aware of the feeling that the representative of Skei Grande has, that five minutes is not long, and that there's a lot of stuff on your mind and you'd want to have it said. In November, I took the initiative of an international conference on the situation of women in Afghanistan, where we also got the first lady in Afghanistan, Mrs. Ghana, to come to Norway and explain the situation of women. It is absolutely vital now that we do not see any setback in Afghanistan in terms of girls' rights to school and women's rights. This is a top priority for the government in the further work. But political solutions must also be found in Afghanistan. You can't go on with civil war-like conditions. How can you balance this? At least further development is needed to balance this, because it is one of the poorest countries in the world, and Norway is obliged to address Afghanistan in the future. We also had our own statement last June about Afghanistan, and we've got this investigation committee, this commission, which is now looking at the effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e475	What separates a leader from one that follows, is that the leader creates a basis, while the leader, like, waits for someone else to create the basis. Norway was a leader in promoting the Landmine Convention and the Class Weapons Convention, when it was not a foundation but was created a basis. These are currently two standard agreements that have been signed far from all countries, but which still operate and have greatly reduced the use of these weapons. The humanitarian initiative, as the Foreign Minister quite rightly said, has been important. It has brought life back after two decades without significant progress when it comes to disarmament – on the contrary, because both the United States and Russia are renewing their nuclear arsenal. It would be important if one or more NATO countries were to lead by working for it. It's like if you're going to have a vision, you're going to have to do something with the vision, otherwise it'll just be words. My question is, how will the Foreign Minister make sure that we are a leader in the work so that the vision of a nuclear-free world is real?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e482	First of all, I must allow myself to say that we have a situation in which we feel that Syria is about to leave, we have severe humanitarian crises, Russia is warning them that perhaps they are going to deploy nuclear weapons in Crimea, and then we are going to have a strange debate about something for which there is no political basis, either in NATO or at the Conference of Supervisors, about a ban. I'm saying I share the strong vision of a nuclear-free world. The representative can trust that the government will stand for disarmament so that those who have nuclear weapons will reduce the number of nuclear weapons. The representative can trust that the government is uncompromising in the fight for nuclear weapons not to get non-governmental actors into her. ISIL or other extremists must not get weapons of mass destruction, and other states must not get them. At the same time, we must follow up the important humanitarian initiative on the vision of a nuclear-free world. But it's still part of NATO's strategy that NATO should have nuclear weapons as long as there are nuclear weapons. Therefore, the adoption of a ban is not in line with NATO policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e490	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. Some of what I thought was most interesting and perhaps biased in the Foreign Minister's presentation was the information he gave that Norway is actively working for a place in the UN Security Council in 2021-2022. It is exactly 20 years after Norway last sat in the Security Council. If I were to characterise Norway's programme and work in the Security Council in the period 2000–2001, it must be that it was low-level, but very performance-oriented. What were we responsible for? Yes, we had, among other things. responsibility for the border dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we were responsible for dealing with conflicts on the Horn of Africa and African regional integration. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the work of the Security Council as «a long-term policy to safeguard our strategic interests in the United Nations», including as regards the work of «for more efficient multilateral institutions». However, I also choose to see the work of the Security Council in connection with the agreement that Norway has now concluded with the African Union. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been in Ethiopia. What we believe we got confirmed is to a large extent that the African Union will increasingly play a key role in the development of its own continent. Not everyone is aware of it in our part of the world. If we get a seat in the Security Council, the Horn of Africa will continue to be an area of Norway with its experience and contacts can play an important role in it. The refugee situation in the area alone represents an enormous challenge for both the United Nations and the African Union. With all due respect for ourselves, the African Union is also probably the player who is going to play the most important role in solving the terrible situation in South Sudan, where Norway gets both rice and roses. I think we should also take that criticism into account. African Union will also increasingly play a role in crisis management and with military presence for, inter alia, stop Boko Haram, spreading across Nigeria's borders. Let me move further north. It is natural that Russia's violation of international law characterises the security policy debate in Europe, that people become alarmed. We all agree on this, and we condemn the violation of international law, but Norway has a responsibility beyond this. The Nordic regions are, at least, Norway’s most strategic foreign policy area. We depend on – all countries – that all countries in the north are cooperating on the challenges we face in the Arctic, climate issues, environmental issues and the northeast as examples, as well as the incalculable consequences of increased tourism in Greenland, Svalbard and Alaska. Here we must have Russia, we must have all the Arctic countries involved in the work. People-to-people cooperation between North Norway and North-West Russia and the cooperation on the management of fisheries resources and coastguard services are other examples. We should perhaps think through how we externally speak about our future relationship with Russia. Russia is a great neighbour with whom we need to cooperate. It is also important to maintain dialogue. Finally, NATO itself is the cornerstone of our defence and security policy. We have also heard that before today. I'm not going to repeat what Anniken Huitfeldt or others have said, but focus on something else. In the current situation, I would also like to highlight the increasing Nordic cooperation in defence policy, including cooperation in the so-called Northern Group, as well as in particular. include – as far as I know – the United Kingdom, Poland, the Netherlands, etc., and not least cooperation with the Baltic countries, a cooperation which of course takes place with respect for and on the basis of our security policy anchoring in NATO. Can I add that in addition to that, we may need to increase cooperation on social security, with the threat we face in Europe today, among other things. IS at the southern flank of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e509	The Kingdom of Norway enjoys discussing foreign policy, not least in the demanding international situation in which we live. First of all, I would like to say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs hears it – because it is for his own people to have it – that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made a strong statement to the Stortinget as an invitation to this debate last week. It was wide and eaten at once, and in addition, there are not many weeks until we are also going to debate our relations with the European Union, such as in particular. is our main trading partner. In my speech, I would like to comment in particular on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs called the ‘fourth main line’ of Norwegian foreign policy: humanitarian efforts, education, health, job creation and efforts to prevent conflict and contribute to peace and reconciliation in vulnerable areas. The framework conditions for humanitarian work and the protection of human rights have become more difficult in recent years. The more important it is that we focus on just this which represents the most important of our values for foreign policy. We cannot close our eyes, for Norway is – and must be – a driver for the respect of humanitarian law. We also need to address the fact that the situation of humanitarian workers and human rights defenders is very difficult in that they are also directly attacked. The situation in Syria is getting worse. Only in Syria has the International Red Cross lost 47 volunteers since the start of the conflict, and we cannot accept this! The core of humanitarian efforts is to save the lives of individuals, to relieve distress, to promote and protect human rights, but most importantly, the aid to the Syrian people is not reaching and is not sufficient. 16 million Syrians now depend on humanitarian efforts — and it needs to be increased. The humanitarian crises we are seeing on several continents go hand in hand with global security challenges. They grow well, both of them, in vulnerable countries that don't have the ability to fight them. In war and conflict areas, the most severely affected are the civilian population and the most vulnerable groups: children, the elderly, the disabled, the poor and ethnic minorities. For example, a few weeks ago, we received the report that at least 89 young boys have been kidnapped while they went to school in South Sudan. The UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, fears that that figure may be much higher, and reports that some of the boys were only 12–13 years old. Children should be safe when going to school. But their states can't protect their children. Thousands of civilians have been chased for flight in the areas where the school boys were taken, and together, nearly two million South Sudanese — including 750,000 children — have been displaced since 2013. 400,000 children have lost their opportunity to attend school, and according to UNICEF, 12,000 children are now being used as child soldiers. Nearly 6.5 million South Sudaneses are hit by a humanitarian crisis because of this armed political power struggle. The sad thing is, I could use a number of other examples than South Sudan. Today, the world has many such areas of crisis. A long-term and comprehensive approach in development policy to stabilise — from the bottom — is a good approach, outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this situation, and then in addition to our ever-watchful humanitarian commitment and contribution. Because we need to strengthen the interaction between humanitarian and long-term development efforts — for example. South Sudan, one of the government's focus countries in aid policy. Norway shall have a broad, long-term and poverty-oriented involvement and shall enter into close-up partnerships. We also need to focus on education, not least for girls. I think it is great that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have now put on a global leadership sweater to ensure that more children are trained – when 58 million children are not allowed to attend school. In order to succeed in the long term in the fight against violent extremism and to have countries capable of caring for their citizens – including schoolchildren – it is essential to step up the tracks that stabilize and counteract the pitfalls of such conflicts and violent extremism, and then education becomes a key factor. States need to be guaranteed long-term and stable foundations, the foundations that educated young people with good health can provide. Let me conclude by reminding you that this year's aid budget in Norway is the largest ever. But the most important thing is what we get out of the aid billions. The conversion of land-concentration aid policy is good. It makes assistance more effective, and it is easier to measure results. However, it is important to stress that we must have humanitarian action in crisis situations, and here we must be flexible, and we must not forget the importance of long-term assistance to prevent crises. In a situation of several acute crises in the world, this cannot be stressed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e528	Then I will also be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for the statement, which I was not present at, because then I was in Riga, but I have read it with interest. The world has become a far more complex place. Habitual axes and alliances are challenged, new powers are emerging, military conflicts have drawn closer, speeches are answered with terror, and Islamic fundamentalism is growing. With this as a backbone, Norway’s foremost foreign policy objective should not be to keep policy firm, but it should be to face new challenges offensively and with new knowledge. In this way, I agree with Mr Solhjell, who speaks of pluralism in the foreign debate as well. Pluralism in politics in general is very important. Now it is not that there is a lack of comments in the open room from the representative Solhjell or the party SV, and that they do not understand it. That might be precisely on this question SV has no particular influence. We need to know who our friends are, and we need to be loyal to them when it's storming. Our friends believe in freedom of expression, equality, equality, religious freedom, pluralism, democracy and secular rules of law. Those who do not subscribe to such values of freedom are not our friends. Our foreign policy must reflect this. This does not mean, however, that we should not have contact, debate or dialogue with countries that do not have all these freedoms as their base. If we don't have it, there will be very few countries left to talk to. One might say it's a handful of countries that respect just this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that the primary objective of foreign policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests – our values, our security and our well-being, and that we need to focus on the key tasks. These are wise words that I fully agree with – as opposed to some others here in the Chamber who have a scepticism about this, and who believe that Norway's foreign policy objectives should be peace on earth and other global conditions. I want to remind you that we are a relatively small country with 5 million people in a world of 7 billion people now, and no matter what we do, it has little meaning for how the world evolves, although I know that many in this room believe the opposite and would like to promote Norway's interests in a way that would ensure that they are global interests, put it together and equate it. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs specifies Norway's interests. The challenge will be to find tools and processes that ensure this. If you're going to prioritize something, you're going to have to be equally clear on what you want to downgrade. If you are not, you really do not give priority to anything. Of course, if we constantly focus on the objectives of foreign policy on which the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself should draw attention, we should look critically at all the activities in which we engage. The question that one always has to ask is whether an activity or an involvement is a central task that promotes Norway’s interests or whether there are other countries that have their national interests more closely linked to different activities and processes and that these countries are thus more naturally involved in this. The government wants to make Norwegian business interests a priority task. It is good and, in line with the other country, actively uses its foreign stations. Norwegian industry will face increasing competition through global trade in the future, and it is therefore important that Norwegian enterprises focus beyond its borders. You can choose to dislike international competition, and you can want things to be different, you can think it's unfair, and you can refuse to take the realities inward. It's a strategy that will make everyone losers in the long term. Growth and welfare are best ensured through active international trade. That is precisely why we should facilitate this in our foreign policy as well. I therefore agree with the Foreign Minister's statement that: ‘The EEAS shall be a relevant business dialogue partner and for our leading knowledge environments. Norway shall be profiled as attractive to wise heads, talents and investments.’ Let me conclude by mentioning this proposal for a representative, which was promoted by Solhjell in the Chamber today, that we are going to work towards a ban on nuclear weapons. Let it be clear: there is broad support in the hall for peace. In fact, I think it is completely unanimous. We are for world peace, we can establish that. We're not happy with nuclear weapons -- we're actually against nuclear weapons. No one wants them to be used, no one wants them to be created, and no one wants anyone to have them. But they exist. If that's the way we're going to work on this, maybe one way to make it happen is that some democratic states will be persuaded to reduce the number, while those who are not then democratic states – I remember there are nine states that have these weapons – will not agree to this. Then there's a verification process, and then you have to try to get to this. Is it better to work for something when it's a completely unrealistic goal to achieve it? I don't mean it. I actually live safer knowing that our friends have nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e548	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a presentation on the important foreign policy field. Europe is in a situation we could hardly imagine a few years ago. Russia violates international law by not accepting adopted borders and engaged in regular warfare in its neighbouring country Ukraine. The country is destabilised by Russia. It's a situation we almost couldn't imagine a short time ago. And the Foreign Minister said that the previous statement was completely different, because the world was completely different. People suffer from both sides of the conflict in Ukraine. It's shocking and almost unreal to us who are in peaceful Norway. With us, the situation is the opposite. Norway's neighbour relations with Russia are good and have been peaceful for over a thousand years. We've had a long-standing people-to-people cooperation across the Norwegian-Russian border. This cooperation took place even though there was cold war and the connection between East and West was minimal. People-to-people cooperation meant that the Nordics crossed the border at Storskog on breaking skills, musical stifling and other events. The Russians came back across the same border, and that's how they established contact between the two peoples. Most active was the population of eastern Finland, which is also natural due to geographical proximity. People-to-people cooperation has been important for contact during the period from the fall of the Soviet Union to Russia's establishment. We have had a steady increase in border crossings on Storskog until the sanctions began to work. Now the number of border crossings has fallen dramatically, by 34 pst. from January 2014 to January 2015. It's not because the Russians don't get a visa issued, but because the rubble has fallen dramatically in value. Many Russians simply cannot afford to travel to Norway. The sanctions affect the Russians financially, but they also affect Norwegian firms that have established themselves in the Barents region, due to Russia’s contradictions with, among other things, Russia. import bans on western goods. The penalties are imposed, and they are intended to be imposed, in order to be able to move a firm situation and to have consequences for action taken. Norway and Russia have many common interests in the north, linked to natural resources such as fish, oil and gas. Cooperation continues along these lines related to search and rescue and joint management of the Norwegian-Russian cod stock. It is important that there is still contact and cooperation in these vital areas. Last night, the Foreign and Defence Committee returned from the Joint Viking military exercise in Finnmark. It hasn't been military practice in Finnmark since 1967. The exercise is ongoing in these days, with 5000 men and women participating in the exercise and an innumerable vehicle. It's a huge operation to move so many heavy vehicles to Finnmark. We got the impression that the deployment had gone according to plan. As Finnmarking, I want to express satisfaction that it is also being practiced in Finnmark. National defence shall ensure and secure the entire country in the event of adverse events, including in Finnmark. In addition, the GP, the garrison in Porsanger, has a very well-developed military infrastructure, and the Halkavarre shooting range is one of Norway's best shooting areas. Talks with soldiers and officers gave the committee the impression that they were very pleased to practice in Finnmark. Joint Viking is a national exercise for Norwegian forces. Practicing their military forces is something that every country does, and something that neither can nor should be seen as an aggression against others. The most positive of all was to meet so many young people who were in the first time in the service, and who were so satisfied with their stay in the defense. They were motivated, positive and represent Norway in a great way. I think the defense has managed to develop and modernise, so that it has become attractive to young women and men. The defense had to change, and they have taken the job. The defence is peacekeeping – it is important to remember the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e574	Our values that we have taken for granted are being challenged in various ways – by crises and conflicts in our neighbourhoods in the south and east, and by terrorist movements that have become more radical, mobile and authoritarian. The presentation last week made the importance of safety visible and of acting collectively. The situation in Ukraine and Russia’s continuing violation of international law were rightly given a lot of space in the presentation. The situation there shows a demanding security policy situation, and we are like NATO countries not disconnected from this. Other countries bordering Russia and a Russian-speaking population are in particular in Russia's sphere of interest. We, as NATO countries, must deal with complex threats. This also meets us and our allied European partners in the south. I think it is interesting with the proposal that has been put forward today on nuclear weapons. As several speakers have said, we are all against nuclear weapons. We want nuclear weapons not to be part of the arsenal that both NATO and other parties have. But in a situation where Europe's security policy is more challenging than in decades, I think it would be special and wrong if Norway should now start to doubt our support for NATO's strategic concept. We're going to work for non-proliferation, we're going to work for disarmament, we're going to work to look at all aspects of nuclear weapons, but the fact that Norway was going to take a kind of leadership role and break out of the NATO alliance, I strongly warn against. At the southern border of NATO, the mess has taken hold. The democratic vacuum that vandalism and constant coup d'état have left behind has created havens for ever more brutal and radical groups. ISIL is conquering new land. They face resistance, but they still pose – and will pose – a significant safety risk. They're like a virus that reproduces where they see an opportunity. Over the last few weeks, we've seen that they've occupied cities in Libya with access to the Mediterranean. The situation in the country is chaotic with no less than 1700 clans now struggling on Libya's way forward. The country of NATO Italy and the Mediterranean countries have reason to take this threat seriously. ISIL's behaviour knows no bounds and does not stop with brutal killing of innocent people. UNESCO is now talking about cultural cleansing in Iraq. In several cities, cultural treasures have been shattered, in line with what the Taliban did in Afghanistan. Several thousand-year-old statues and cultural memories that make up our common cultural heritage are shattered, and events are broadcast. Many young people have joined the terrorists. Based on Member State reporting, the UN estimates that 15 000 foreign fighters from over 80 countries have joined ISIL. The dark numbers are probably large. We have experienced terror in Brussels, Paris, Copenhagen and Ottawa. They want to create chaos and hatred and attack people with other religions — especially Jews — the free society, journalists and officials. ISIL, as we know, has plans for a caliphate to extend even further. So it was alarming that the terrorist group Boko Haram in Nigeria has given its support to ISIL. Together with Al Shabaab in Somalia, these pose a threat not only to the integrity of the countries – they terrorise, kill and abuse those who are not rightful. Our response to the asymmetric threats of terrorists must be a common front among those who believe in democratic principles and human rights. Global threats require global control. In Northern Iraq, the civilian population needs our support. Minorities depend on the security of Kurdish self-government authorities, who in turn need support from the international community. I'm glad that a coalition has been established where Norway also contributes 120 instructors. The stake is precarious. The Christian minority in the region lives almost locked up. For decades, Christians in Iraq have gone from a population of between 1 and 1.4 million to less than 400,000. In Iraq, Christians have lived side by side with other religious groups. The Sunni-shia conflict over the last decades has helped to make the region more and more insecure for all minorities. It is essential that the country and the region stand for religious freedom and that religious dialogue be given a more central place. At the same time, the authorities must facilitate an ever-increasing degree of freedom and democracy. We experience a changeable and unpredictable security policy situation. We have to deal with complex threats of both a conventional and asymmetric nature. It can help to make other countries and organisations better equipped to prevent and manage these threats. Fortunately, more and more countries are also becoming more democratic and more involved in cooperating and interacting with each other. So, as the Foreign Minister said in his statement, a lot of positive happens in the world. The problem is that the tragic events – in Iraq, with ISIL and in Russia – overshadow it, and we must take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e597	Russia’s annexation of Crimea and support for the insurgents in eastern Ukraine naturally characterise the security policy climate in Europe. We stand with our neighbouring country for condemnation and punishment. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also underlined the vital Norwegian interests we have to care for in the North, and that can only be maintained in cooperation with our neighbouring country: the management of fishing resources, search and rescue, the preservation of the environment and the valuable people-to-people cooperation, built up over many years. This must be developed, not liquidated. We also see that in some European countries now, Spain, Italy, Greece, there are questions about whether the sanctions serve their purpose. Although there are several reasons to worry about developments in Russia, it is too pessimistic to assume that this will last for a long time. We must stand firm on our starting point: respect for fundamental, international rules of play, democracy and human rights. But we should also insist that cooperation is the best basis for finding solutions to conflict and conflict of interest – even if we have to apply what Lenin called ‘revolutionary patience’, as he had to stagger impatient followers who expected far too fast results after the revolution. We've basically had good neighbourly relationships between us over a thousand years. It has endured cold war, an ideological East-West separation and deep suspicion. Wisely and “revolutionary patience”, we will also overcome this setback, if we look for opportunities rather than let the worrying features of the situation blind us. When we remember that early in his first period, U.S. President Obama breathed new life into the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, it is amazing to hear the representative of Halleraker's startled reaction to the proposal to work for an international ban on nuclear weapons. It will bring Norway into a security policy no-man's country, he said. So this is what we hear from a government party that doesn't fully follow the long-term plan for the defense with the funds to strengthen the defense, but leans on the nuclear umbrella. I remember that we took the lead when it came to banning class weapons – then we went ahead. Fortunately, we got a somewhat wiser response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his intervention in this debate. He says that there is no basis for a ban today. I don't think anyone disagrees with that, but the point is to work out such a basis, in cooperation with our allies, of course. The third main line of the Foreign Minister’s statement was on trade. Two major negotiations are in progress, the TTIP, to which we are spectators, and the TISA, in which we are participants. Whether TISA has raised many concerns, some because of misinterpretations, others because of what the government might think of giving in the negotiations. State Secretary Morten Høglund says to the nations on 23 February: ‘TISA does not impose privatisation, deregulation or outsourcing of any public service at national or local level.’ This is how the opening offer is available. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assure the Grand Duchy that these important staff elements in the negotiations are not being riched, so that they are supported by the agreement to be submitted later to the Stortinget for ratification, and that the government conducts a thorough analysis of how the TISA agreement will affect the service market at home, in particular the public sector – widely defined – when it is presented for ratification. It will be important for the conclusion and legitimacy of such an agreement, which is important for offensive Norwegian export interests. We're spectators of TTIP. It is difficult to know how best to safeguard the interests of Norwegian business in the European and American markets before we know the scope and content of the agreement. I'm going to be more patient than then, Jan Tore Sanner, who was in the last period, when he demanded that the then government start its own negotiations as soon as possible. It has, as we know, not yet happened. I would encourage the government to involve not only the Storting, but also business, trade and civil society in the analysis we have to do to assess what we should do, and what options are available when the TISA negotiations have to be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e630	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good presentation. We celebrate our 70th anniversary of peace in 1945. All over the country there are important events that made us gain our right and our freedom after five years of occupation. Never again, the slogan was peace. After we left the Cold War behind us 25 years ago, it is alarming and sad to note the serious threats we are now facing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his statement that ‘rights shall prevail before power’, including in Europe. Everything that's happened over the last year shows that we can't take the universal, democratic values for granted. The values on which we build our society – the rule of law, fundamental human rights, freedom of expression, the inviolability of human dignity, a free and independent press, free choice, etc. –we must be ready to stand guard and fight for. The criticism from the head of the Labour Party, which I do not see participating in the debate today, of the lack of focus on Europe, falls on its own unfairness. The ties to NATO, the United States and the EU are central, as our closest allies and friends. It is a community of values and a defence and security alliance that the government and Norway are strengthening. The EU began as a peace and reconciliation project, a partnership that has stood its test and demonstrated its strength through several crises. Norway has everything to gain from alliance solidarity and from being with our friends in a situation where our neighbouring country undermines European security and stability. The IPC meeting in Riga on common foreign, security and defence policy last week, in which we from Norway attended as an observer, expressed deep concern at both the situation in Ukraine and the terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe. Europe's soul needs immediate protection, said the Chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. And the EU is on. The agenda included common neighbourhood policy, what a common foreign and defence policy should entail, the interface with the role of NATO, how to redefine the Eastern Partnership, possible versus propaganda measures, etc. There is a broad consensus that Norway should contribute to a common European security policy, particularly in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, and that we should contribute to Iraq. The government’s work on a key message on global security challenges is expected to be met. We shall, as the Foreign Minister said, meet the expectations and challenges with clarity and firmness as to what our interests, priorities and values are. We're going to build wear and tear, resistance, endurance and flexibility. There is no doubt that there is a need for an even stronger budgetary priority for our own defence and for the mobilisation of the entire Norwegian community. We have to do that together, across the party lines. It is a responsibility for everyone in leading elected roles, from magnification to individual local government, to go ahead, put value questions on the agenda, and get action against extremism put into practice. According to the United Nations Anti-Terrorism Centre, between one in five and one in nine returnees will be able to commit terrorism in their own country. Even though the image is dark in many ways, it is far from black. The years of life for many of the poorest in the world have greatly improved. Education, increased cooperation and increased trade are the key to further development. In an open global economy, it is important to work for equal and fair rules. Let's hope that the WTO negotiations will loosen up and move on. Although we see emerging economies and power shifting east and south, Europe and the EU remain an economic and political centre of strength. In a number of major international issues relevant to Norway, the transatlantic partnership and the US involvement are a driver. This applies to NATO, and also to trade policy issues, such as: the negotiations on the TTIP. In addition to the purely economic effects, TTIP is now described as a golden opportunity to lay a new cornerstone and strengthen the ties westward to the United States. The Government shall be commended for its efforts to promote Norway’s interests in this process. Norway is now expanding its cooperation agreements and alliances with organisations such as the African Union and with regions in Asia and Latin America. It offers new opportunities for Norwegian business and for increased trade. The EEAS also has a strengthened role for Norwegian business abroad in contributing its unique competence in matters of importance for success. It is very important that the government thus promotes Norwegian business interests in such an offensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e649	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e653	If there is something that takes away from me the night sleep, it is neither the discussion about plastic bag tax, hospital organisation nor what it should be. No, that's the situation in Ukraine and Russia. Let me start by assuming that I, as one of the members of the Great Britain for several years in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, have now been involved for several months in discussing the relationship between NATO and Russia. This is case number one, which marks all the work in our assembly and certainly also in the other delegations and parliamentary assemblies in which the Stortinget participates. Over many years, Russia and Russian parliamentarians have been associated members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, because cooperation at parliamentary level between transatlantic cooperation and Russia is also very important. Russia has a key role – I think I would say – in everything that happens in Europe, and everything that happens in Asia. Then the terrible thing happened in Ukraine, and it was necessary for the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to respond to Russia. We got a discussion, I'm not going to go into it in detail, which ended with the fact that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly now has no cooperation whatsoever with Russia. Russian parliamentarians are excluded from all work in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I – and Norway – thought it was going too far, but so the majority voted. It's easy to sit in Washington, London, Madrid or other capitals and say that we're not going to cooperate with Russia, but it's not that easy to sit in Oslo and Norway and say it. I have to say that I dislike the situation that has arisen. For me, there is too much cold-war rhetoric that is now being used from both sides. It is unacceptable what Russia has done in Ukraine, but Norway must have a relationship with Russia. The representative Ingalill Olsen mentioned everything that had happened in the north, with people-to-people cooperation. Let's add the Barents collaboration, let's add the result of the divider line, increased cooperation on petroleum in the north and other areas where we need to have cooperation with Russia. This isn't easy. Of course, we should show that Russia's behaviour in Ukraine is not acceptable. We are supposed to be together with our allies and NATO, but Norway must also have a relationship with Russia, our important neighbour in the north-east.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e664	In his reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee tried to give me different opinions than I do. I fully agree with the Foreign Minister's statement on this issue. In the Western world, we have a good expression called ‘to dictate’. How do the Centre Party and the Left think that Norway is going to act in NATO with such a decision? When we meet in different bodies and assemblies, are we going to propose this? We have to get an answer to that. In the Right, we're not less concerned with reducing the nuclear threat than other parties here in the Chamber, but we're concerned with our credibility and with the total dependence we have on NATO at an aggression in the North. Trine Skei Grande's assessment of the role of defence in the uncertain time we're in actually suggests that she could have enjoyed being on the committee tour. The uncertainty and concern of the Baltic region and the constant pressure on us others to stand up to Russia are a serious crossroads of thought. I will also present the good account Swearing Myrli had from his experience in NATO. We can't choose on the top shelf in an alliance collaboration. Then we risk weakening our interests. That's what this case is about. I see in the motion for a resolution that there are no legal obstacles to a NATO country going into the brink of supporting a ban on nuclear weapons. This isn't about jus, or whether someone is more for or against nuclear weapons than others. For my part and for my part, this is about the fact that we cannot shake the trust, the security and the credibility of Norway in the NATO alliance. Let me illustrate this briefly: the last time we were at a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in plenary, a representative from the United Kingdom asked whether Norway could be a member of NATO since we had a decision not to allow nuclear weapons in peacetime in Norwegian ports – something we of course defended. But this gives an image of the uncertainty created, which goes across NATO's strategic concept. I am pleased with the foreign minister's clear response here today. Let's work on the non-proliferation agreement and the humanist initiative, but we cannot isolate this from the issue of Norway's security and credibility in the NATO alliance. I may have put the matter on the head here today, but there it actually stands well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e677	There are two substantial differences in reality between Norway and Russia when it comes to the conflict in Ukraine. Where Russian authorities see what is happening in Ukraine, as an outrage against the Russian-speaking population in Ukraine, the rental of fascists and Nazis, Norwegian authorities see a Russia that has taken a piece of another country – for the first time since the Second World War – clearly contrary to international law. In other areas of society, too, the difference in reality is enormous. Russia's treatment of political opposition, minorities and indigenous peoples and homosexuals and lesbians is, in our opinion, far beyond what we who fight for human rights can accept – and Norway must respond to it. That was perhaps also the background to the recent statement by Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide that Norway's relations with Russia had been permanently changed. But I don't think such statements will do any good. Russia and Norway have long traditions of disunity, but at the same time we have managed to cooperate, through the people-to-people cooperation. The Norwegian border with Russia is Russia's oldest and the only one beyond which we have no war. The development of the Pomor Pass or the Barents Pass points towards a return to a time when cooperation and trade between the peoples of the Barents region were strong. After the fall of the wall, it was finally possible to rebuild the strong relationship between our two peoples. Pomor trade took place primarily from 1870 until the Russian revolution in 1917. The climate between Norway and Russia in the 1880s can be illustrated by the fact that Russia was Norway’s fourth largest trading party. And to illustrate this further, there were in 1870 400 Russian boats visiting Tromsø. Almost all the important cities and towns in the northern part of North Norway have their starting point from the pomor trade, and this was only built on trade that took place in the summer months. So deep was the connection between our two peoples that it actually developed a private commercial language between the North and the Russians, which has been called "Russian". The language had a mix of Norwegian, Russian, Sami, female, English, German and Dutch words. The Soviet era and the cold war not only laid a lid on our relationship, but also on that part of history. Yes, we're going to react strongly to violations of international law and human rights violations, but at the same time we don't have to plot to create steeper fronts between the peoples of our two countries. The permanent change of Norway's relationship with Russia is not a wise one. Norway must play a different role than for example: Denmark has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e692	The representative Halleraker challenges the Center Party and the Left if we justify ourselves in the proposal we are now making with SV to work for a ban on nuclear weapons. It was also said earlier in the debate, from the Progress Party, that one is against nuclear weapons, but that they exist. One tries to create the impression that the proposal for a representative is about NATO unilaterally banning nuclear weapons. It is not correct. When Jody Williams from the organization ICBL, the organization that worked against landmines, received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997, she rose on the three-week Oslo process that led to the ban on anti-personnel mines. Land mines, which had been in use since the American Civil War and the Crimean War, were banned. It was amazing, and it was historic. The struggle against class weapons started at the beginning of the 21st century - a Document No. 8-proposals in the Stortinget by the Zenterpartiet and Åslaug Haga. This led to the Storting being opposed to the class weapon, but little happened from the government's side, as at the time was a Labour Party government, and so the Center Party started an action in 2005. This led to a signing in December 2008 at the Oslo City Hall — after a three-week Oslo process — where 100 countries signed the ban on class weapons. Throughout this time Norway was a member of NATO, but Norway took a leadership and was with and was decisive, along with many other countries – not so many at first, but later on – and also with organisations for the same purpose. This is the intention behind the proposal for a representative. So I want to ask the Right not to make the proposal for anything other than that, not try to make this a matter for NATO, but one thing where we, with an open mind, should work to abolish a weapon that has unfathomably tragic consequences humanitarianly if it is used. It is good that we all agree on that – the intention that this should be abolished – but then one must also do something to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e703	At least there was for once in a time a debate, as one said to me at the time, also on an important topic. There are many very important and central themes of this foreign policy debate that we have been discussing could have revolved around. I believe that when the question of nuclear weapons became so central, it is because it has been clear over some time that a majority of the parties in the Stortinget through their programs and through what they have said is that Norway is going to work for an international ban on nuclear weapons in one way or another. But the government has made it clear, and continues to make it clear, that they won't work for and have the goal of getting an international ban on nuclear weapons. It's a difficult situation. The second thing that helped make it a central issue was the Halleraker representative who, in order to use his own words, put it at the head and showed a tremendous commitment to the proposal that we should work for an international ban on nuclear weapons. Norway has on a number of occasions taken a noise, stood up for something important and implemented policies, despite the fact that not all our allies were some in it. The situations have two things in common. One is that it has our important contribution, unilaterally, to having the nuclear policy we have, for example. in connection with Norwegian ports – which in their time were many indistinct – and in relation to class weapons and land mines, through which the representative Navarsete went through in a good way, we contributed to the progress. But it also has in common that there was criticism, but it didn't rock permanently at that alliance Norway is a member of, no matter what one might think of it. What I think will be the central question now is how we can be a leader and a driver in work so that we can eliminate and get an international instrument against the most dangerous and least humane weapon in the world over time. I hope that the Foreign Minister will take this debate further, and not least that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e716	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e730	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President, Mr Storberget, has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e739	It is good to take this matter into the wake of a debate on a foreign policy statement, because it is a global challenge to this proposal. Antibiotic resistance is inherently seaworthy, and has itself a great global threat potential. In this way, there is reason to give the proposers great credit for promoting this proposal, not least to raise the issue in a political debate here and also, if possible, to provide the basis for effective policy measures both to prevent and to repair. I would like, on behalf of the rapporteur, to thank all the members of the Committee for the work they have done on the vote. It is also important to stress that there is a real and unifying political will to take this major challenge seriously. Norway’s and the Nordic countries’ preliminary low prevalence of resistance should not be a resting place for any of us. Several disciplines and several ministries should pay close attention to this and to actions that can be undertaken. What we are now facing is a growing challenge that could also be a growing challenge for us in Norway. This has to be met with several types of instruments, and most importantly for several of us: we have to wipe out this issue against how we develop Norwegian agriculture and food production. We already know that large and more industrialised livestock production may have an increased risk of more resistance, and that this, in addition to certain climate and environmental challenges, needs to be taken seriously. The cross-sectoral expert group, which issued a report in 2014, on how Norway can prevent the spread of relevant bacteria, made valuable concrete contributions. The Committee is of the opinion that it is important that the government has an offensive attitude both at home and internationally in the fight against antibiotic resistance. The members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party express in the setting concern about the doubling of the production volume of chicken and turkey. We are concerned whether the consequences of such a doubling are well established – yes, in reality, if one is led was, and whether one sees clearly the causal link between the evolution of production volume and the developments we have had in the use of antibiotics. In the view of the Labour Party, it should at least have been possible to wait for ongoing research on the subject before drawing any bastant conclusions. The centre party and the Labour Party therefore propose a reversal with regard to the doubling of the production volume of chicken and turkey. Moreover, it is unfortunate, in the view of the Workers' Party, that support for agricultural research is cut, as the government proposes. In this area, too, as I believe the government in its letter of reply also highlights, that we need more knowledge. It is good that an overall committee now asks the government to draw up an action plan for an overall response to a major challenge. We need effective action, but we very much need cross-ministerial cooperation in this area. The Labour Party therefore takes up the proposal to which we are advocating. I would also like to make it clear, as a explanation of vote, that, following an assessment of the proposals which the Central Party will make later in the debate and which are set out in the vote, the Labour Party will support these proposals collectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e760	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e763	Antibiotic resistance is defined by the World Health Organisation as a global health problem and is perceived as a threat in line with terrorism and climate change. A report estimated that 25 000 people died in 2007 of infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the EU/EEA region. Although Norway has a low prevalence of resistance, it is increasing. A cross-sectoral expert panel delivered on 18 August 2014 a report on how Norway can prevent the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, stressing that this needs to be seen in an overall health perspective that calls for an overall effort across different disciplines and departments. During the open consultation in the Committee, it was found that we in Norway have a low consumption of antibiotics both in human medicine and in veterinary medicine. While the situation in Norwegian food production is very good compared with other countries, it is important to work systematically to ensure food safety and to maintain a low level of antibiotic consumption in this country. Food producers also have a very high focus on this. Although Norwegian livestock farming and food production are in a very good international situation, it is important to address these challenges in an offensive way. The Councils of State have already taken action in several of the eight areas of action proposed by the expert group. The 2015 budget strengthened both monitoring and research related to antibiotic resistance. Norway is also participating in the research programme on antibiotic resistance under the auspices of the EU Council of Ministers. Food surveillance also has a very ambitious strategy to try to prevent the antibiotic-resistant bacterium LA-MRSA from getting footholds in Norwegian pig holdings. A compensation scheme has also been established to reduce the financial burden on those who have detected this bacterium. Many animal and food antibiotic resistance challenges need to be met through international cooperation, and key issues are regularly addressed with the EU Commissioner for Food Safety and Health. The government has announced this spring a cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance, a work already under way by the four departments concerned, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The challenges are global and cross-sectoral and need to be met with international cooperation in many different sectors, including public health, animal health, food and the environment. An overall committee is committed to the development of an action plan in the context of the cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance which demonstrates how public authorities, veterinarians, professional environments and industry can work together towards the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in animal nutrition. I am very pleased that the government has a high focus on and goes into the fight against antibiotic resistance broadly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e782	Work on antibiotic resistant bacteria is important. Although there is a greater use of antibiotics in public health than in livestock, this does not mean that there is any reason to relax. The government is conscious of the challenge of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and it has strengthened and will strengthen both monitoring and research related to antibiotic resistance. It is important to increase knowledge related to the consequences of different types of antibiotic resistance. Norway has a low consumption of antibiotics in veterinary medicine. This is important to focus on and ensure that there is no negative change. With regard to Norwegian efforts against LA-MRSA, it has been noted internationally — and in particular by our neighbouring countries. No other country has taken similar measures to try to prevent the bacterium from getting foothold in the pig population. It's worth noting that 60-70 pst. by Danish swine herds are infected with this bacterium. Here to our country, the Food Authority launched a new annual monitoring programme for LA-MRSA on pigs. As mentioned above, work on antibiotic resistant bacteria is important, including: therefore, the Committee unanimously supports the development of an action plan showing how public authorities can work together against the spread of such bacteria. But plans are one thing – action is another thing. This government has shown and will continue to show that it is acting. Therefore, increased efforts in terms of monitoring and research are important, and the government is also counting on this. I therefore very much agree with the Council when, in her letter to the Committee on 5 November 2014, she said: «As above, there is considerable research and investigation work on antibiotic resistance in animals and in food. It has been committed to further strengthening research efforts in 2015. This important subject is also followed up in several other ways, below from the industry itself. I therefore do not see the need to draw up a specific plan for stepping up efforts in this area. I believe that the most important thing is to use resources to act and not to use resources to create an action plan.’ Action plans take time, and they cost money. It is therefore important to consider which plans should be drawn up or not. This is probably one of the plans that should be put to rest, and we should bet on action. Finally, I would like to mention the new compensation scheme to reduce the financial burden on owners of pig herds who have been found to be LA-MRSA. This will be an important and positive contribution to the protection of infectious diseases, which will contribute to continued transparency and minimise the impact on the producers who are unscrupulous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e800	First, I would like to say thank you to the Center Party for promoting such a proposal. When this debate really took place this summer, the representative Hans Fredrik Grövan of the Christian People's Party was outside and called for a cross-sectoral strategy and action plan against antibiotic resistance. The representative of Gruvan considered that there was a need for an overall approach to the field, where both concrete immediate action on farms, in feed producers and others handling animals was complemented by research and development to find the sustainable solutions. Today we are discussing the matter here in the Chamber. This is not the first – and hardly the last – debate we have on animal health and food safety, for recent months there have been a number of debates in the public debate on food safety and consumer concerns. There have been debates on antibiotic use and resistance in particular. We have even had cases where individual doctors have gone out and warned against eating certain foods, and we saw not many weeks back new cases of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Norwegian livestock farming. Increased antibiotic use and resistance is an ever-increasing problem in the world and also one of the major global health challenges we face. In Norway, human medicine is found to be at a cloud-high level compared to the medication of animals. At the same time, it is a fact that the use of antibiotics in Norwegian animal husbandry has also led to resistance and food safety concerns. These concerns have been both justified and unjustified, but have nevertheless created an uncertainty in the population. We, as the country's elected representatives, have a great responsibility to facilitate that everyone in this country can be sure that the food they eat is not harmful to them. Work on antibiotic resistant bacteria cannot be isolated into a single sector but must have a cross-sectoral solution. It is therefore essential that a cross-sectoral approach is put in place with subsequent action plans to counter antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the Stortinget now asks the government for an action plan against just antibiotic-resistant bacteria associated with livestock farming. This is in line with the work previously announced by the Minister of Health that he will implement in the health sector, and in this way we can work together broadly against antibiotic resistance in all areas where relevant. I hope that the Council of State does not follow the advice of the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen, who is asking that the work on such an action plan be suspended, but that action be taken. Both action and action plan must go side by side. Then it is important that the size of the position we are now dealing with also determines that research in this area should be strengthened. There is a clear expectation that funds for this research effort will be increased so that it is possible to gain both more and better knowledge of the field and the solutions needed to address today’s and tomorrow’s challenges related to antibiotic resistance. This is in line with what the Centre is promoting in the proposal for an economic escalation plan for research and investigation work. The Christian People's Party was opposed to the government and the Left when they went to an increase in the concession limit for chicken and turkey. One of the main reasons why we couldn't agree to such a solution was precisely the risk of increased disease pressure on farms. Norway is in the world peak in low levels of antibiotic resistance in animal husbandry, and we believe that it is a step in the wrong direction to move towards an operation that may create a greater need for medication and thus risk increased resistance. As regards the dissemination of antibiotic resistance in cross-border establishments, the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that there is a need to take this challenge seriously. When food and human beings cross borders, there is also a risk of disease and resistance to some medicines being included in the journey. This challenge should be highlighted in the strategy and in the action plan. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that an overall committee today is taking the initiative to strengthen its efforts to combat antibiotic resistance in livestock farming. It's an important agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e819	The centre party's commitment to clean and safe food is big and real. Consumers shall ensure that the food produced in Norway is safe. It is, to a large extent, too. ‘It is the final sum of the cash register that counts’, complained one of our food chains earlier. The center party thinks it's wrong. Quality, sustainability and purity are at least as important as the price of food. And the bill for cheap food can quickly get very high. Antibiotic resistance is not an agricultural problem. Antibiotic resistance is a societal problem, and in the future the consequences and challenges can be much greater than they are today. When bacteria overtake the antibiotic, what is now considered to be harmless diseases can have very serious consequences in the future. The fight against antibiotic resistance must be waged on a broad front. The two most important areas are those of the Norwegian medical offices and hospitals, and the use of antibiotics and their attitudes in the world as a whole. Therefore, the Centre Party has submitted two proposals on antibiotic resistance, one for the health care service, which has been treated in the past, and one on antibiotic resistance in food and animals. We are pleased with the final result we have received in the committee, but until then there has been a strange process, with a state council which has very much opposed an action plan, first by letter to the committee where such an action before an action plan. Then this theme became part of the European Committee, where Bent Höie decided that each department would draw up an action plan. I was inspired by this and wanted to challenge the Council of State in the Questionnaire and just get her to confirm that she would actually make an action plan. That confirmation was given to me after three questions. Fortunately, the committee has now said that such an action plan will be drawn up, although I am now recording some strange signals from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen. But I'm going to think that this government, like all other governments, has to deal with a majority decision in the Storting. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that later. What is important with the action plan is that this is such a complex area that both authorities, industry and research – all – have to work together. Then it is important to have a clear strategy, but also a concrete plan to address it. I believe that the government with the signals of the Council of State in the matter underestimates the complexity of this matter. When discussing food security in Norway, it is important that we challenge – we should expect things to improve. But we shouldn't be blinding ourselves to this. We must remember that the situation in Norway is initially very good, but we want it to be further improved. That's the background for many of the discussions that you might have. But it's not like if you don't want LA-MRSA in pork, you have to buy Danish pork, because that's where they gave up the fight. In Norway, we have taken the fight, and the Committee has given an important clarification in that fight, namely that farmers should not be afraid to report in the light of economic consequences. It has been decided upon by the Committee. Here the financial arrangements must be so good that one does not have that fear. More have been inside the concession limit for chicken, so I'm not going to go further into it. We have also had a discussion about narasin, which has led Nortura to make a decision on what they want to do. Now the majority of the committee says that this work must also be supported by the authorities. The work against antibiotic resistance is not something that this government has invented. This whole process started on the basis of the professional report that we have received. The most important from this point of view is the action plan. The second thing that the Committee says is that research is strengthened. Norway must have a central task in the international arena. And we must not confine ourselves to domestic animals. We have to take the entire range of animals, including what happens in the pet sector. Then I understand that the Greens are promoting two proposals. They're basically in agreement with the Center Party. It is quite natural for the government to consider the issues raised by the Green Party. With this, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e845	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e848	First, I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of Geir Pollestad and Liv Signe Navarsete to raise the matter, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done. As the World Health Organisation refers to, antibiotic resistance is defined as a global health problem. It takes the Left seriously. On the left, it is crucial that antibiotic resistance must and should be seen as a cross-sectoral and cross-political challenge. We are therefore pleased that the government will develop a comprehensive and cross-sectoral approach to antibiotic resistance, in cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In the left, we are pleased that an overall increase will now be made by the government to ensure that, in the context of the cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance, an action plan is drawn up to show how public authorities, veterinarians, trade unions and industry can work towards the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in animal nutrition. As noted at the open consultation in the Committee, we were all reminded that there is a low consumption of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine in Norway. It has also been stressed that although the situation in Norwegian food production is very good compared to other countries, it is important that there is a systematic effort to ensure food safety and the continued low consumption of antibiotics in this country. As Norway is part of a European and global market, we must stress that the problem of antibiotic resistance is going across national borders. In any case, we have to recognise that we are increasingly dependent in Norway on developments in this area in other countries. Closing us if we ourselves is not part of the solution. In its letter to the Committee on 5 November 2014, the Council of State replied: ‘Many antibiotic resistance challenges in animals and food must be met through international cooperation.’ Furthermore, the Council of State shows that the government has addressed several challenges in this area with the EU. But in order to become more concrete and to raise the debate today, I would like to challenge the Council of State here and ask her to explain what Norway is doing to cooperate internationally on this issue. Here I am thinking primarily of cooperation with the EU and, in particular, of cooperation between Norway, Denmark and Sweden. The Committee has also discussed whether research and investigation efforts to stop the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria are good enough and whether they address the challenges we are facing today and in the future. Whether this is the case, that is, that the challenges are significantly greater than what we're responding to from research efforts, we have to deal with them. Knowledge hole must be tighter. That is why the Left also points out that an overall committee today believes that research in this area needs to be strengthened. This means sending clear messages to the government and to the forthcoming government budgeting process on research efforts in this area. We need to make the right investments in research in time. We have to take responsibility, and it's the left ready to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e878	It is good and necessary that we have a debate on measures against the spread of antibiotic resistance in Norway, and I thank both the Centre Party and other parties for addressing this debate. An action plan is also needed to increase knowledge of what affects the spread of resistant bacteria, both in agriculture and in human medicine. However, the Greens are concerned that it is now a driver, too much of being careful about symbol treatment if one does not also look at the relationship between the prevalence of resistance and the general development that is now being introduced in agriculture. Agricultural developments are now moving towards increased intensification and increased specialisation. The production of feed, breeding and livestock products is often separate and requires an extensive exchange of feed and animals. Less and greater use, with high stocking density and intensive breeds, especially in pigs and chickens, makes antibiotics and other medications more necessary. The combination of larger, intensified and specialised units with extensive exchange of feed and animals increases the risk of infection and the consequences of infection. Such a development affects animals, and it also represents a potential problem for public health. It is claimed that developments are necessary because consumers want cheap food. It's pushing consumers in front of the food policy. The truth is that consumers assume that food is safe in Norway. They expect to be able to choose a chicken dinner without having to interfere with how antibiotic-resistant bacteria are to be treated on the kitchen bench. The price focus is created to a very large extent by advertising campaigns and to a lesser extent by people's wallet. Why don't we question the claim that consumers are most concerned about price and cheap food when consumer research shows that people's attitudes focus on something completely different, or at least are much more complex. Chicken is the most obvious example where we don't even have our own breeding and parental animals in Norway and are completely awarded to a Scottish company based on completely different rules for the use of antibiotics. Half of the chicken meat in the Norwegian market therefore contains resistant bacteria, and we cannot exclude that the use of coccidiostats in the chicken feed may affect the prevalence of resistance. These are medicines routinely fed to chickens today because of the intensive production of rapid growth and high stocking density, and there is a situation that, biologically speaking, creates a growing risk of disease in birds. The serious situation in the chicken industry is the reason why the Green Party today proposes that the government assess the possibility of developing its own Norwegian or common Scandinavian chicken breed. This is not something that can be stacked on the legs in a year, but it is a fully realistic measure that should be considered. Such a breed may be based on genetic material from abroad, but it should be a breeding line that we control and that is more robust and can provide a better life for the animals than the current broiler breed – and in particular the parental regeneration of today’s broiler breed – has. Greens support the proposal of the Centre Party to stop the duplication of concessions in poultry production introduced without ex ante identification of food safety consequences. We also believe that this production is in contrast to a livestock farm based on Norwegian resources, i.e. as far as possible roughage-based agriculture. We need an action plan, but we also need to look at the scale paradigm and the intensification of agriculture, which has as much as possible, at the earliest possible, cheapest food as possible. It is therefore also proposed to assess the impact on food safety in Norway of a trend in agriculture with increased intensification and specialisation where the exchange of feed and animal material is increasing. I bring this up with the Greens' two proposals: to investigate the consequences of increased intensification and specialisation and to ask the government to assess the development of its own Norwegian or common Scandinavian chicken breed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e897	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e900	I fully share the concern of the proposers for the global development of antibiotic resistance. This is one of the absolutely greatest health challenges we are facing today. Over-use and misuse of antibiotics have contributed to this situation, and the problem is increasing worldwide. I have chosen to meet the challenges of my responsibilities much more offensively than my predecessors. For me, it has been important to act quickly and to take the necessary action on my own responsibility without waiting for strategies and action plans. I am already in the process of implementing a number of measures in several of the eight areas of action proposed by the cross-sectoral expert group. In the 2015 budget proposal, the government has announced a strengthening of surveillance and research related to antibiotic resistance, and I also redispatched additional funds for new research projects in this area at the end of last year. This will contribute to better knowledge of reservoirs of antibiotic resistance in animals, food and the environment and the consequences of different types of resistance in the food chain. The Food Safety Authority has also commissioned several risk assessments in this area from the Scientific Committee on Food Safety. It concerns the resistance in the food chain, the importance of resistance in pet animals and the importance of the use of coccidiostats in feed and the possible development of resistance. These risk assessments are expected to be available during 2015. I expect these research projects and risk assessments to provide new knowledge that can contribute to new knowledge-based and targeted actions to limit the further development of antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, I have endorsed a very ambitious strategy to try to prevent the antibiotic-resistant bacterium LA-MRSA from getting footholds in Norwegian pig holdings. Proposals for a new system of compensation for production losses for owners of pig flocks who have been identified with this bacteria were submitted to consultation at the end of February. In the event of a new outbreak of LA-MRSA in February this year, an infected smoke is suspected to be the source of the infection. This shows that good prevention measures are essential to prevent the spread of bacteria. At a meeting with the industry on 25 February, I challenged the industry to step up measures to reduce the risk of introducing and spreading this type of infection, both in terms of smokers and other visitors and procedures for trade in live animals. I'm going to have a new follow-up meeting tomorrow. Together with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we are now sending out a circular to the municipalities to clarify the rights and obligations under the Food and Contamination Act. It shall now be easier for pig producers and smokers to be tested if they are carriers of LA-MRSA bacteria. The circular also mentions other measures to prevent infection by the industry should comply with in order to control the spread of LA-MRSA. However, cooperation between many sectors is essential in the fight against increasing antibiotic resistance. In particular, the human and veterinary aspects are referred to as ‘one health principle’. However, agricultural production other than animal husbandry, aquaculture and the environment in a broad sense are also important areas for the dissemination of resistant microbes and resistance genes. A comprehensive cross-sectoral approach is therefore necessary. That is why the government has decided to establish a national, cross-sectoral approach to antibiotic resistance. The strategy shall include at least one overall, measurable objective for each sector. It shall be completed by the end of the first six months of this year. The strategy will be based on the expert group's report of 18 August last year. I have been working on a dynamic approach to the challenges in this area and have not seen the need to prioritise the use of resources to create a separate action plan related to antibiotic resistance in the food production chain. The important thing is to act, and that's what we're doing. Although Norwegian livestock farming and food production are in a very good position in the international context, the challenges of antibiotic resistance in animals and food need to be addressed primarily through international cooperation. I have addressed several challenges in this area with the EU Commissioner for Food Safety and Health, including the presence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the international poultry breeding industry and practices for the supply of antibiotics by veterinarians. In many EU countries, veterinarians still have the merit of selling antibiotics. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Climate Change and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, I would like to follow up further on this issue with the EU, which is currently working on a revision of the legislation on the supply and use of medicinal products for animals. I also recently had a meeting with the Swedish Minister for Rural Affairs and the Danish Minister for Food, where there was agreement on closer Nordic cooperation in relation to both the EU, FAO and other international arenas. I can assure you that the follow-up in this area will continue to be a high priority from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e931	A little in the wake of the Greens' proposal No. 6, in which the government is asked to assess the relationship between an increased volume of production and the risk of more antibiotic resistance: in fact, in its recent report — which probably came on 26 February — the OECD detects a rather sharp increase in the use of antibiotics related to livestock and animal production by 2030, at a rate of 70 pst. The OECD analysis is that one third of it will have to be related to more intensive production. It's something you have to take the most seriously. Does the Council of State consider that she has sufficient research basis to claim that the opposite would be the case in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e936	Yes, I believe that history has shown us that we have gone towards an agriculture where there have been fewer and larger units, and where the use of antibiotics in this period has fallen. One cannot compare Norwegian agriculture, necessarily, with all other countries' agriculture. If we look at Denmark, there's a lot bigger crew you're talking about, herds that we're most likely never going to be close to being able to get up in. If we look at the chicken, it's so that when you get the chicken parts into the house, you get one all in, and they're all taken out at the same time. It's the animals inside that house that could possibly be infected. If we're going to look at it, it's more interesting to look at the hatchery side. In Norway, we have three large hatcheries, which are responsible for all the production of chicken, so if you're worried about it, there's something to look at. Comparing Norway and Sweden, we have about the same use of antibiotics. Both countries are in an equally good situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e945	The Committee has taken note of the fact that the Council of State considers access to veterinary medicinal products to be satisfactory. However, a unanimous committee believes that measures should be considered to ensure adequate professional competence for this industry and calls on the Council of State to adopt measures to reverse the negative trend. By drawing up the Action Plan, will the Council of State also consider such measures as the Committee points out here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e950	When drawing up an action plan, we will look at the points on which the Committee is concerned and see if there is a need to do something about the points mentioned. The most important thing to say is that we are doing well to meet the challenges in this area. Although we do not draw up a separate action plan, we have already implemented a number of things on the research side. When it comes to putting in place a compensation scheme for those hit by LA-MRSA, we're doing well. And we're doing well to increase activity in international cooperation. In particular, Denmark and Sweden are important allies for us, both towards the EU and towards the FAO.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e957	The Council of State said that it was most important to act. That's good. There's a ban on antibiotics in the food of our animals. At the same time, Norwegian chickens are fed with the substance narasin. Narasin has international mortgage approval from the United States in 1982, about 33 years ago. Many in Norway know that, including people at the Public Health Institute. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Council of State not inform the Council of this fact, thereby prohibiting narasin for use in animal food? This is where it can be traded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e964	Narasin is a coccidiostat that we have now started a series of projects to investigate. I'm concerned that we're going to have research-based approaches to what we're going to do. What's one of the questions is, if we cut out narasin, could it mean that we need to use a lot more antibiotics? If so, is there anything we want? Is there any improvement in the situation in chicken production? It's not safe at all. That's why it's important first to have the knowledge at the bottom, before we possibly go to such steps. It is also important to say that the Scientific Committee on Food Safety is now taking a closer look at this. I look forward to getting more facts on the table – simply – in this case, so that there can be a basis for deciding on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e973	I record that the Council of State is very pleased with itself, and it is said that self-crust is to be listened to, because it comes from the heart. Governments have strongly opposed the development of an action plan. I have not heard clearly in the debate now either the Council of State say that an action plan should be drawn up. I have two things to challenge the Council of State on. One is whether the Council of State can state that there is an action plan here and whether it will be drawn up in such a way that it is clear in time for the priorities of the State budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e981	Yes, if the representative Pollestad had heard well after my answer in the previous question, he would have heard that I said, ‘When we are going to draw up an action plan’. So we're going to do that, of course. I have to say that I am very pleased with the efforts that the government has made here. We are about to put in place what a compensation scheme should look like for those who are hit by LA-MRSA. Of course, it has a great economic impact on those who come in such a situation. We have a very good collaboration with the industry, and as I was in the past, I'm going to have a new meeting with them tomorrow to see what more measures we can take in terms of prevention. It must be the most important thing here, to try to prevent these bacteria from entering Norwegian swine herds, for example. We have also re-prioritized funds in research, allocated to research this year. I'm actually very pleased with that. So, yes, I'm happy, but we're not in the goal, so we have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e988	I addressed the need for international cooperation in my article. The Council of State presented its work towards the EU and the Nordic countries. I am pleased with the way it was taken up. But my questions are: What does the Council of State think about the possibility that the questions she raises with the EU are being carried on? And how is it worked offensively from the Norwegian team that we should be able to influence in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e995	The most important now is the revision of the legislation on the supply and use of medicinal products for animals with which the EU is involved. We have people in Brussels working against bureaucracy there to try to influence what it will eventually be. But it is also a theme that I raised with the Swedish and Danish Minister of Agriculture when I met them at Svalbard. We will also have a ministerial meeting in the Nordic Council of Ministers in June, and this will also be a theme there. I believe that if we are to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal production, we are dependent on the different countries having legislation that makes it possible for the veterinarians not to make money to print antibiotics. There's almost a little bit of context -- you can see how you use a lot of antibiotics, and there's also a lot of 'unsleep' and liberal rules in that area. So I believe that this is one of the most important things, and we are doing it through the EU, and we are doing it together with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1002	Norwegian chicken production is a very special affair, where we have made total dependence on imported feed from far away, which we trade through an organism owned and produced by a Scottish company, an organism that is bred so far from biological normality that you can discuss whether you should call it a chicken. This production is accompanied by major animal welfare problems, both in the case of parental regeneration and in the case of animals in Norway. That is why the Green Party has today proposed that initiatives be taken to develop a Norwegian or Nordic chicken breed that we have more control over, which has better animal welfare conditions and which can be based more on Norwegian resources. How will the Council of State consider following up such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1009	I do not see it as realistic that we should develop our own Norwegian chicken breed in the future. Obviously, if someone sees that there is the potential in it to make money on it, everyone is warmly welcome to get started. But as far as I've brought the cleanness of the meetings I have with the parties, no one sees it as probable. What's important, and as I also think Nortura, KLF and these industry players have taken on well, is to influence Aviagen to bring clean material to Scandinavia. We work with the Swedes there, and have actually managed to do it in a way that has made it the last year that it wasn't antibiotic resistance in the material that we got in. So I think that's the important thing, and I think it's very unlikely that it's possible to build a chicken race in Norway that can compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1016	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1019	The discovery of antibiotics is clearly one of the greatest scientific breakthroughs of our time – discovered by a single researcher who was not part of any major national research programme. He did this great breakthrough for penicillin. Ten years later, it was used normally. Hunting for new antibiotics began in the last half of the 1940s. It was largely based on soil microbars, where ever new active substance was discovered in what could be described as the golden age of antibiotics. In the last three decades, the development of new types of antibiotics has stopped on the way up, while increasing the resistance of micro-organisms. The detection of antibiotics is different from other discoveries, such as: the wheel. The default option is to enjoy discovery forever. The mismanaged person may be at risk of destroying the discovery, with very serious consequences for both humans and animals. Antibiotic resistance is about public health, animal health, food and the environment – to name a few – and it is a global challenge. That is why it is quite right when the government – with four departments – now announces a cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance. The challenges associated with antibiotic resistance are, of course, cross-sectoral. That is why it is also right that a matter should be brought immediately by the Health Committee, which is also about resistance to antibiotics. While Norway uses little antibiotics compared to other countries, we use too much — so much that we are eager to weaken this amazing discovery. Let me give you an example: almost all Norwegian manufacturers of broilers give broilers a substance called narasin in the substance every day. Narasin is patented as an antibiotic and it is antibacterial. If bacteria first become resistant to narasin, this may lead to resistance to other types of antibiotics that are important to cure humans. According to the researchers, at worst this can lead to unwanted, resistant bacteria that can be dangerous to humans. At the same time, one in the fish farming industry has been largely closed down by eliminating the use of antibiotics through vaccination against diseases. So it's a mixed image. SV mein Norway should become much more offensive in the fight against antibiotic resistance and in the pursuit of new types of antibiotics or treatment against infectious diseases. This involves measures to limit both national and global use and to increase efforts to discover new types of antibiotics and to increase competence in both food and human. Unfortunately, the government has recently acted with the opposite objective. The government decided in December last year to double the production of chickens for fattening and turkeys. It could help to provide dangerous consequences for food security. Several hearing aids warn against this duplication on a professional basis. Furthermore, the Minister of Agriculture and Food has rejected the need to draw up a stepping-up plan for research and development efforts to stop the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The government also proposed to cut the loopholes in agricultural research, which will be able to affect research in the field of food security. SV supports the proposal of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and we also consider supporting some proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA. We need to have an offensive attitude to these questions, unless we're in danger of destroying the amazing discovery of Fleming in the 1920s.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1036	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1039	There is a dramatic international trend with increased antibiotic resistance. There are measures internationally, but there are also measures nationally, so that we can strengthen our good position. As others have said, this is a consumer matter. Safe food, free from antibiotic-resistant bacteria, that's the nucleus, and another nucleus is a natural environment where we deliberately work towards the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in nature, to everything that lives in nature. It is a subject that requires knowledge of microbial ecology, and I have listened to one of our leading researchers, Tore Midtvedt – very skilled on a professional basis – to which more should listen. But there are complicated cause and effect conditions because there are unknown interactions in nature, and there are bacteria that have a unique ability to defend themselves against drugs that are designed to kill them. Therefore, the bacteria change properties and become resistant to antibiotics, i.e. antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In Norwegian-produced agricultural food, we have the biggest challenges in the poultry team. In the chicken fillet, the antibiotic resistant bacterium is ESBL. It's not dangerous to eat, but it's very dangerous to get these bacteria into the kitchen and spread everywhere in the house and home and nature. The EUBL must be eradicated in chicken, as LA-MRSA is systematically eradicated in pigs in Norway. For that, more knowledge is needed, but we know that a large amount of the substance narasin is used in chicken feed, and as I mentioned in the line, it is an internationally patented antibiotic. Narasin is an antibiotic that was originally produced from a soil microbe – Streptomyces dichofaciens. Narasin is referred to in international literature as it is, namely a polythelium antibiotic with ionophores. It was early shown to have a very wide antimicrobial spectrum as it can affect as different species as gram-positive bacteria, mycoplasma, toxoplasma, malaria, plasmoids and coccidies. Resistance is likely to develop in all species, and the main effect is similar in all, namely that the cell membrane leaks in, potassium and water flows in, the cell increases in weight before eventually possibly cracking. In chicken, the narasin comes into the faeces and looks into the wild. There's a big problem and a big challenge. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ban narasin in chicken, and it is essential to realise it. Furthermore, I support the Greens' proposals – that is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1052	I feel the need to clear up a misunderstanding. In connection with my first post, I quoted the Council of State and commented on what the Council of State says in its letter to the Committee. This was the case with the minority proposal No. 4, which reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an economic escalation plan for research and investigation efforts to stop the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.’ It was this plan that I was an opponent of and, like the Council of State, did not see any purpose for, and it was in the context of which I quoted the Council of State. It's spending money on a plan to spend money. Then it's better to spend the money on what they're going to spend on: research, development and investigation. The misunderstanding has been clarified, nor should it be misunderstanding that the Progress Party, like the rest of the Committee, agrees that we should draw up an action plan on a cross-sectoral approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1064	The starting point is that the situation in Norway is very favourable in terms of antibiotic resistance and food safety. It must have its cause. It hasn't come of itself. This is because you have pursued a policy that has made this possible. Before she became the Council of State, she wrote a chronicle, Communism in Norwegian, where she in many ways slaughtered everything by the policy that makes Norway today in that situation. This fight is obviously not abandoned, when a denouncing that there can be a link between the use size and the infective pressure. Because there is no automatic causal link between two things happening at the same time. It is true that the use in Norway has increased. Antibiotic use has decreased in the same period. However, there is no basis on which to conclude that there is no link between the size of use and the pressure of infection. It's like saying: Today there's sun out, and today the Progress Party has a bad opinion measurement – the Progress Party falls on the measurements when there's sun out. We're getting in a good mood, but there's no reason to say that there's a causal relationship here. There is a great weakness in what I see as the government's argument. Most people who have some insight into biology know that the larger the flocks become and the closer the animals are, the more the infection is pressed and the consequences if an outbreak of disease occurs and one, for example. must be slaughtered in a certain radius. I would like to comment on the Greens' proposals: we have supported them. It says that we should ask the government to assess this. The Green Party representative must not interpret the fact that he has received full support for the content of the proposals, but there are proposals that have something good in them, and therefore it is right to give a proper, professional assessment of the issues in the further development of the action plan. In an ideal world, a person would probably have his own breeding. We may get there, but one must also see it in connection with the work that I perceive, among other things. Nortura is very serious, and has given good results so far. However, we support the proposals of the Green Party, and we believe that – like the proposals we have chosen to promote in the case – this is important things that should be considered in the preparation of the action plan. There are also many other proposals that have not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1076	I must say that I have heard the debate today, and the word 'action plan' has got an undeserved bad reputation. It's the opposite – almost – of acting. I wonder a little bit about the argument from the Council of State about this, because this is a field that a total magnification believes it is absolutely vital that we get more political attention around it. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to act. But a prerequisite for acting, and for acting well and also making the action subject to public debate, is that sometimes one manages to put this together in a planned context. I guess that's what the government is doing when you want to deliver a plan or a big message about travel life – and when you want to provide planning documents to combat labour-life crime, violence in close relationships or, for that matter, soil protection – so that you bring the matter into public terrain too in order to do the measures presented, even better, and to be able to see the context of it: what is the most important thing we can do to preserve Norway's good situation regarding, among other things, the use of drugs. antibiotics? I believe that it is a very good decision today, and we expect a good and constructive public discussion about the measures being presented, and that we can see them in their context without it coming apart – depending on whether the Council of State has anything left in the budget as the year draws to a close. But the most important thing from this debate is perhaps the Council of State description of whether there is any research link between large herds and increased risk. I am not sure about that, and it updates proposal No. 6 from the Green Party, where the government is given the task of assessing exactly this. It seems to me that the government must take more seriously than what has been presented here in the debate, primarily from what the OECD has presented, which I was in my post, but also from what the experts actually say. I can't read any significant good research empirical evidence to suggest that a development in Norway where we increase herds, for example. Of chicken and turkey, won't have anything to say about this. I just have to admit -- I'm being honest -- that I'm not sure about it. Both the one direction and the other and a precautionary principle should have the effect of doing a better job and a better foundation of the decisions you make, for example. increases production. So here I think, and I would strongly urge, that at least the Storting should gather on what the Greens have proposed, particularly in the light of what the Council of State has said today. The Labour Party will support the Green Party's proposals, and we give the same reasons as the Central Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1089	I fully agree with the representative Pollestad that the situation has not come about by itself. It has come through the fact that we have had strict legislation on the use of antibiotics, that veterinarians cannot make money on it, it has come because we have good farmers, and because we have good veterinarians who follow this in a good way. So there's been a discussion about antibiotic use and causality with size. We've gone in and we've looked at the numbers from Tine, which shows that the use of antibiotics in the larger herds is less than in the smaller herds. We've looked at Austria, which has the same herd size as Norway, where they use six times more antibiotics than what we use in Norway, and we've seen Sweden, where they have a lot bigger herds than what we have in Norway. They use about as much antibiotics as they do in Norway. That's why I want to say that I like to hear what the empirical and numbers and facts the other side refers to when they talk about a clear relationship, it sounds like, between the size of the crew and how the use of antibiotics is. I'm looking forward to looking at what numbers are the basis for that. So I believe it is important to say that I am happy that the government is doing this work well. But the situation we now have in Trøndelag gives us a good reminder that this is a fight where one cannot rest on the laurels, where one cannot sit down and rest. It's a continuous struggle to keep these bacteria out, and that's something that I'm therefore going to spend a lot of time and resources fighting even in the future. There is also reason to say that, in the case of the LA-MRSA outbreak in pig flocks in Trøndelag, this government has not increased the concession limits. The concession limits that are on pigs are the same as those that were under the previous government, so if you think there's a challenge there, then -- yeah. The same thing with the ESBL, which is a challenge, i.e. these bacteria that are in chicken. Now we've just increased these concession limits, but the challenges we've had so far have come below the limits set by the previous regime. So I think it's a little bit too easy to talk about size. Here there are completely other things that are important, and therefore I am happy that everyone is concerned about the matter. So am I, and I'm going to fight on to do my best in the fight against antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1102	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1116	This should actually be an unnecessary matter, but in the case of an incubator, parts of the previous bill have fallen out, which means that the municipalities have to deal with all the applications as individual cases, and that is what I used in my reasoning on the previous occasion, that we should get rid of them. This proposal is a proposal that takes account of correcting the mistake that was made earlier, and there is nothing new here but correcting it. Then, of course, I will ask the Council of State to ensure that the regulations are clear when the law comes into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1137	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1143	Before we go to voting, the representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1146	I have the honour to make a proposal for a representative to make it a criminal offence to abduct minors who are subject to emergency child protection decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1151	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1161	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1197	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the impact on food safety of agricultural developments with increased intensification and specialisation where the exchange of feed and animal material also increases.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have also expressed support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an impact assessment on the spread of antibiotic resistance in cross-border food and animal activities, such as food trade, veterinary recruitment and other workers in food production and the food industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for the training of several veterinarians and professionals in food production and the food industry, so that work on the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria can be carried out with skilled professionals at all levels of business and administration.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an economic escalation plan for research and investigation efforts to stop the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1243	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the proposal to double the concession limits for poultry.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1295	The representative's proposal is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 10 June 1977 82 on motor travel in the fields and watercourses I In Law 10 June 1977 No. 82 on motor travel in land and watercourses is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1328	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1338	The matter will be settled for the second time in a later meeting. The proposal shall be put to the vote: Document 8:69 L [[2014-2015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-12.ana.ud73e1410	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
