ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e63	The representatives of Magne Rommetveit, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Tom E. B. Holthe, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. They summoned the alternates, for West Agder County Benjamin Groenvold, and for Hedmark County Lasse Juliusen, has taken the seat. Councillor Vidar Helgesen transferred 4 kgl. Propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e93	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e96	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Heidi Greni and myself for immediate action to deal with the rapidly increasing influx of asylum at the Storskog border control point.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e101	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will go beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e117	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to six replies be given to the speeches of the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties, as well as up to six replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e124	I would like to thank the Council of State for a broad review of current issues in our relationship with the European Union. The great, demanding challenge facing us in Europe today is the movements of refugees and migration. Other countries have the stronger influence than we do, but also in us it puts the policy’s ability to act to the test — not least the government’s. It works in several areas in the EU. During the IPC meeting in Luxembourg in September, the Head of Foreign Affairs Mogherini explained the efforts to mitigate the conflicts that are sending refugees – the war in Syria, the lawlessness in Libya, the situation in the Sahel countries, the efforts to break up the smuggling networks, large financial contributions to the refugee camps in the neighbouring Syria Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq, major development funds for the Sahel countries. Relocalisation has been adopted, a distribution of refugees from countries receiving most of the refugees, in particular Italy and Greece, to the other EU countries. In the supplementary number, the Government proposes that Norway participate and take 1500 over two years. Then we'll see if this contribution survives the extra number we now experience around the additional number from the government parties here in Stortinget. In total, we — all European countries — are in a very difficult situation. As the Council of State said in its statement: ‘European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU. But the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater.’ It is said that it is when cooperation has met challenges that EU cooperation has evolved. Problems and crises have ended in enhanced and deepened cooperation. We saw it last, in the face of the financial crisis. The result was deeper cooperation, joint financial institutions and stricter regulation. The reason why the crises in cooperation have ended in more cooperation is the recognition of a common dependency. It has also developed a responsibility for the community. Then it's hoping that the dynamics are also confronted with the situation we're now in. But it has not been given, because these challenges touch on other strands and have their roots in a conflict framework, which makes it more difficult to gather around the measures. Yesterday, the Foreign Minister of the Presidency of Luxembourg, Jean Asselborn, went out to warn that the EU could fall apart if isolation, not solidarity, became the leading star. The interests are different. Take the war in Syria, which started with a peaceful rebellion against a dictatorship – the Arab Spring had sprung out into a new country – but which is now a conglomerate of fronts and with IS as a common threat. But IS is not necessarily the main objective of the different actors. Aren't the Kurds more important to Turkey than IS? Isn't strengthening Assad more important to the Russians than fighting IS? Is getting rid of IS or Assad most important for the United States and coalition partners? This underscores the points made by the Council of State. The need for European cooperation is greater than ever. Norway must take an active part in its efforts. We have our responsibility in terms of Schengen cooperation and external border control, and in terms of Dublin cooperation. That is why we must also be involved in burden-sharing. Those who criticise the EU for not coming quickly enough with good enough action should think about how this situation could be without EU cooperation. While the acute fills frontpages and political attention, the systems continue to work tirelessly. I would like to congratulate the government that it has succeeded in removing the delay in putting the directives included in the EEA Agreement into active activity in Norway. Justifiably, there are nine regulations that are not yet operational — but nevertheless, praise to the government. It will then be exciting after the EEA Council next week to hear how long the queue is of legal acts waiting to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. At the May meeting, it was 221, 13 more than at the harvest meeting last year. Perhaps the most important ones in this queue are the financial supervision, where we have passed the anniversary of the political consensus on a solution. I hope the Council of State is not too optimistic when he announces his consent to the Storting, so that it can be dealt with in the spring session. If there is any area where a common regulatory framework in the internal market is important, it is precisely in the financial sector. We cleaned up well here after the banking crisis in the 1990s and established our financial supervision. More stringent regulations and better supervision at European level have now been put in place. It's just a shame it had to be a serious lesson. One of the very few things the Council of State did not touch on in its presentation was another supervision, the EU Energy Regulators Agency, Acer. It is linked to the third energy market package of 2009. Over six years, there have been conversations about how we can relate to this oversight. We received the last interim report at the European Committee meeting in June, when Minister for Oil and Energy Tord Lien said the talks were continuing. It is to hope that we can soon get a message that the solutions are aimed at the free pile. Because what happens is that things are moving on in the European Union. The Commission warns that it will significantly strengthen the role of Acer. The problems of finding a common institutional solution to our relationship with these types of agencies, which involve the transfer of competences of varying sizes, are perhaps the most worrying area of EEA cooperation. There are more issues than financial supervision and Acer, as well as the telecommunications regulatory authority BEREC, where the problem does not relate to the transfer of competence, but what rights we can have as a member. And more are on the stairs. All indications indicate that the new data protection supervisory authority should be empowered to take binding decisions vis-à-vis national supervisory authorities in some areas. The government also wants us to participate in the European Data Protection Board. There should be broad disintegration here in the hall. Data protection must also be protected in a way that goes beyond the laws of each country. But then we have to find connections in line with the two-pillar system, and preferably before the year and day have passed. In its efforts to strengthen the involvement of the Storting in key EEA matters, the Government has announced a new type of notification, a European message, to be used in more comprehensive horizontal cases. But so far it has not seen the light of day. I have – in all modesty – proposed several good candidates in the European Committee, for example. EU work on the Digital Agenda and the Energy Union. The answer has been that the government comes with regular large-scale reports on these issues, as the Council of State repeated in its statement. But neither the energy message nor a message about the digital agenda is on the list of issues the government has notified the Stortinget about for the spring session. So the question is, when is the government going to come up with these messages? Are we at risk that the processes in the EU are running so far ahead of the government that we are losing the opportunities for a broader debate in the Stortinget before the government has to make its contribution to the EU in these matters? Things take time, even in other areas. The negotiations on new EEA funds took time, and now we understand that it takes even longer in Brussels, with the EU's internal clearing processes. But there is reason to be satisfied that the government opposed the pressure for significant increases in contributions. I think it's natural to comment on this more closely when the proposition comes to treatment in Stortinget after New Year's. In its statement, the Council of State says: ‘It was important for the fishing industry that we set up a good agreement for market access for fish.’ It provides new duty-free quotas for fillet and processed products such as frozen mackerel and fresh fish, which will allow for increased processing in Norway. That's good. But are we not too ambitious about access to the market for fish to the EU? That's after all our most important and nearest market and one of our most important export items. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee is now under consideration. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the hearing, the representatives of the fisheries industry pointed out that the maritime food industry does not have satisfactory market access to the EU. They were concerned that the objective of ensuring better market access is not followed up with concrete proposals on how to achieve it. They want an impact assessment of the current situation and of the opportunities available to enter into negotiations with the EU on full market access. What is the European Minister’s response to this challenge? Free market access for fish would be important, not least in the light of a possible TTIP agreement. One of its challenges could be increased competition for the fisheries industry in the European market from US competitors. Paragraph 19 negotiations on market access for agricultural products began in February this year. The EU has clearly considered this carefully, for the requirements were only recently on the table – significant demands, said the Council of State. I just want to repeat what I said in the debate in our last and in the European Committee, that I require close contact with the Stortinget on the design of Norwegian positions further in the negotiations. I assume that the Council of State won't even risk suggesting Brussels solutions, it turns out not to be a majority for here in the Chamber. Finally, the dialogue initiated with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 40 p.m. target. greenhouse gas emission reduction. It aims at an agreement in two to three years' time, i.e.: when the EU has put in place its new legislation. The Council of State announced that we would participate in cooperation also in the non-quota sector, as we are in the quota system, on the same basis as the EU countries. This sets out clear guidelines and frameworks for the actions to be taken to reduce our emissions. Here, two processes are going to go parallel. So the question is, how will the government anchor the input it will give to the EU, here in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e183	The president has understood that it was not the Committee's intention that there should be a change of lines after the main speakers of the parties. If that's the case, we'll follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e186	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation, focusing in particular on the EU's challenges in the areas of security policy, economics and climate. Europe has been put to its greatest test since the Cold War. During the barely six months since the last presentation, Europe has been in constant crisis response. The refugee crisis concerns us all, and it marks the shift of words, not just with us, but in all European countries these days. In meeting the migration challenges, the EU has had problems making decisions that the 28 Member States can agree on. It will be important in the future to avoid fragmentation and polarisation in Europe and to bring together the challenges facing them. As a Schengen country, it is more important than ever for Norway to reach a common understanding that reception equipment and registration must be strengthened in the country of arrival. To survive what we know, with common borders and free movement within, a common asylum practice is necessary. Nevertheless, despite the disagreement, the EU has provided solutions to several of the common challenges. However, it is still the case that the countries of the EU peripheral zone are underfunded in view of practical assistance to the refugees they receive. Therefore, it is positive that the government is now targeting the EEA funds against refugee and migration measures, inter alia. in Greece. In addition, the ad hoc assistance to countries in the Balkans comes. At the same time, we must mitigate the consequences of the dramatic increase in the flow of refugees. A clarification of refugee rights is necessary — to help those refugees who are entitled to protection and to give corresponding clear signals to migrants who do not have it. Last but not least, it is important to focus efforts on the neighbourhoods of Syria and Iraq. I want to commend the government for increasing humanitarian efforts and, together with Germany, the United Kingdom and Kuwait, for facilitating a new donor country conference to finance humanitarian work for Syrian refugees. It's not just the refugee crisis that should take us up. Other related challenges will not disappear even if new ones appear. Crisiss and conflicts in our neighbourhoods have spread. Terrorism, authoritarian regimes and Russia's actions threaten our core values. Europe must stand together to protect international law and the values on which our culture is built – democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The conflicts in our neighbourhoods are closely linked to Europe's security and defence policy. It is then necessary to strengthen the links between the EU and NATO. It also applies to transatlantic compounds. In order to meet new challenges, inter alia: hybrid warfare needs to strengthen the exchange of information and the defence budgets of NATO member countries in order to share the burden within the alliance. In this picture, clarification of the future relationship of the United Kingdom with the EU is becoming very important, as are developments in Turkey. Europe today, despite many crises, is not just a black-and-white picture. It is important to also highlight the positive developments. The aftermath of the economic crisis continues to dominate the political image in many countries. But several countries have now got their economies on the right track. The steps taken by the European Central Bank to regulate the banks under a common mechanism within the euro area have had a good effect. After years of negative development, Spain has reversed the trend and experienced growth. The Baltic countries, which have implemented severe structural reforms after the financial crisis, have also experienced growth in recent months. In Greece, which, as late as last summer, felt close to a collapse, the prospect of getting the economy to right cool is good if the agreed reforms that need to be are respected. It shows that the EU has the instruments that will exist if the Member States show their willingness to use them. It is the good and stable relations we have with our neighbouring countries and with Europe, which means that Norway has foreign policy surplus to pursue its engagement policies across large parts of the world. It is important for Norway that Europe succeeds. As close as our trade is with Europe, we are served with and dependent on renewed economic growth and sustainable growth in the EU. It is then positive that the government should establish a more strategic use of EEA funds for innovation, research and education. Together with the creation of a 100 million regional cooperation fund. The euro could contribute to strengthening EU competitiveness and growth. Norway and the EU share the objective of an ambitious global agreement at the Paris climate summit next month. Work on TTIP is part of a critical negotiation period, and it is important that Norway follows developments closely, and that we can connect to an agreement that meets our interests. History has shown that the United States and Europe are stronger when working together towards common goals. Similarly, we must strive for the most possible pan-European policy in the field of refugee and migration. In addition, we need to work out common standards in other areas. A natural place to start is common standards in the environment, climate and trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e212	First of all, I will also be allowed to thank the Council of State for a broad and good presentation. This is an explanation that embraces a wide range of different points and areas, and that is absolutely necessary in these days. The time since the last State Council statement on EU and EEA matters has been a difficult one, both for the EU itself and for those countries that are both dependent on the EU and close to the EU borders. We see a total breakdown linked to Schengen, and we also have problems with the Dublin Agreement, which is set aside in many ways because there is no registration of those who come within Schengen, as is the case. This means that there is no country to send back people who have come to another country to seek asylum. We are seeing a huge migration in Europe right now. Although the whole Schengen system had been up and down again, hundreds of thousands of people would still have been on the road within Europe’s borders. It says a little bit about the extent of what we're now seeing happening, and we need to figure out a solution. We have for a long time seen the cruel images of what has happened in the Mediterranean, where desperate people have put into craft that very few of us in this room would have used, not even on a small lake of calm water. These are set out across the Mediterranean to come to Europe. I am very proud that Norway is actually contributing in connection with this rescue operation and what is happening in connection with Frontex, to help these people who are in need. We contribute to Frontex and the joint operation Triton with the ‘Siem Pilot’ lifeboat. We have rescue skates in the area. We also work with staff. We've seen a lot of volunteers who've been with and set up, and I just want to give a big reward to those who've been with and contributed to this case, and who contribute every day to trying to save people from the sea. It's important. It also shows that we, who are from countries that are not necessarily members of the EU, can be involved in and contribute to the joint efforts of EU countries to save as many people as possible. We need to re-establish Schengen's external border. We also have to get control of the situation there. It goes without saying that the EU needs to find a solution to this problem with other countries. It is then important that Norway participates and contributes to Norway’s participation and contribution, and we will see where we can make the best possible and most effective contribution here. The EU is an important contributor to free trade and is involved in and provides access to very important markets for Norway. The EU is our second most important market. Therefore, the EEA Agreement for Norway is also an essential trade policy instrument to ensure that we have good market access, that we have a law that is simple and easy to deal with and that guarantees Norwegian companies the market access on which we depend. The representative of the Arbeiderpartiet Svein Roald Hansen was in his article on Article 19. As far as Article 19 negotiations are concerned, the EU has now been involved, even if negotiations have not begun. As regards Article 19 relating to access to the market in agricultural products and to the reduction of issues relating to the barriers to the import of agricultural products, this will become a theme in the years to come – and has been until now. At the same time, I think there's not much to think about to see that our agricultural positions have influenced the market access for fish. Then it's just important that we also see these things in a context. We now have at least a draft agreement related to access to the fish market, but there is a lot to go on. It is not such that Norwegian fish and processed fish products are free to enter the EU. Here it is a great potential for Norway if we are able to achieve more in this field. I think the government and our dealers have done a good job of getting improvements to the agreement that is now in place. But there's still a lot to go on in the years that are coming, and I really hope that we can get even more in this field. I know, of course, that this is working on every single day from the government, and it is important here that you keep that focus even in the years that come. Norway is also an important contributor to some EU countries through EEA funds, and the government has selected five main sectors and three of them have been chosen to give a special strategic priority. This concerns innovation, research, education and competitiveness such as one, environment, energy, climate and low-carbon economy such as the other, and justice and home affairs, including refugee and migration measures such as the third. All these measures are very important. It is important to work on innovation and research, because it also opens up significant opportunities for Norwegian environments, for Norwegian enterprises, which can relate to this, which can apply for funds, which can gain a great deal from it, precisely by using the systems. But what I ask myself is, are we good enough from Norway, from Norwegian companies, to apply for the funds available? Are we good enough to inform about what means are there and whether they are available? One thing is that the larger industrial locomotives, our larger companies, have the opportunity to go in and look at what's available, but I also think that we have to get even better at informing and not least make sure that Norwegian companies use the space for action that is within these measures. It's very important. With regard to justice and home affairs, of course, it is essential for Norway to have good cooperation with the EU in this field, too much of the migration we see, many of those who move across borders, are very often within Europe. Then it's important that we just have a common understanding of the system, that we have legislation and computer systems that can talk to each other and that can exchange information, that we have the opportunity to make direct contact. It is therefore important that this field be given priority. In the case of other fields, the Council of State was in a very different position. Fortunately, we have seen an economic improvement within the EU system. Some countries are still on zero growth or under zero growth, while other countries have growth within their economies. We must be involved and contribute; we must hope that we will achieve further economic growth within Europe. It will benefit Norwegian business – it will benefit us and provide more Norwegian jobs. Norway has a good starting point in the EEA Agreement, and we need to protect and develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e242	In a comprehensive distribution of EU and EEA issues by the government, some themes need to be prioritised in a five-minute article. On a general level, the Norwegian Council of State's relationship with the EU and the EEA is a common feature of a strong desire to adapt and align Norway to the EU as much as possible. The same is true of Norway's participation in various supervisory and agency activities, growth in EEA funds or close participation in areas which, at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, should not be included in the agreement, such as energy or foreign policy: stronger integration. On the other hand, there is total silence about the strong turbulence that characterises many EU countries, the opposition to the strong integration policy and even popular voices about decoupling from the whole or part of membership. These processes can affect EFTA and Norway’s relationship with the EU in both the short and longer term. The EU has difficulties working with it in many important areas. One of them is the common migration and refugee policy. One has used a lot of energy, and there has been a lot of trouble about a relocation plan for 160 000 refugees, but so far there is only one fraction that has been relocated, and few places that have been made available from the Member States. All this year, there are more than 700,000 people coming. How should the EU provide a joint solution to the distribution of those entitled to leave? How are allowances to be allocated further and how to maintain this in an area of free flow? The whole idea of the EU is, of course, just a free move – between different people across countries. It seems unrealistic that in such a free flow society it is realistic to force tens of thousands of asylum seekers in certain countries against their will. And even if you do, how should you make sure that they stay? With freedom of frontiers within Schengen, they are free to travel on to countries such as Sweden or Norway. The refugee crisis is full of the view that Schengen cooperation, with free movement in the internal market, is not able to tackle the greatest challenge we have in our notes. The Council of State stated that the government is now planning to use EEA funds in a strategic way in the future. That's good. There should be no doubt that it is possible to find better ways of creating economic and social cohesion in Europe than to allow millions of dollars for art therapy, bats or church bells. When we had this debate about a year ago, the Central Party and I received strong criticism from the Right's representatives because we proposed to cut off the promises that were rocked by signed agreements. But what's happening today? Yes, in the aid budget it will be cut, and agreements concluded will be broken. The Prime Minister confirmed in the spontaneous Question Time. The government did not discuss a cut in the EEA funds, as well as a move to a fundamental commitment to parts of the aid budget. While the government says that support for civil society is a ‘main sector’ for EEA licenses, the same government proposes to cut support for civil society over the aid budget by about 1.3 billion. kr. Cutta corresponds to nearly two-thirds of the total pledges to civil society in the aid budget. I noticed that the Council of State made it clear that the government would use the flexibility of the EEA system. I see that as new tones, and the government should be very grateful for that. The centre party said earlier in the fall that Norway should demand that an important part of the EEA funds be earmarked to build up the reception capacity of the countries receiving most asylum seekers. If the government ensures that EEA funds are used to strengthen the capacity and competence of national asylum and migration regimes in the recipient countries, they will receive support from the Centre Party. Market access is an important part of our relationship with the EU. Norway today has a good access to the EU market, and we have had that for many decades. TTIP comes up as a matter that has been mentioned by several, and which has also been referred to by the Council of State. The economic effects for Norway of TTIP are at best unclear. On behalf of the NHO, NUPI has looked at it, and the report states that the loss for Norwegian exports by not entering into a TTIP agreement will be less than 1 per million of Norwegian exports. One might wonder about the government's eagerness to enter into any TTIP agreement when we know that Norwegian membership could mean that a significant part of the 90 000 jobs in agriculture and the food industry are at risk of being lost. The right-wing representative Harald T. Nesvik, who connects agriculture and fish in his post, is also not satisfied. At the same time, Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug says in an article in the United Nations that there is no need to link agriculture and fish. Who's going to believe in? As the analyses show, it seems that the bottom of Norway, if we are not part of the TTIP agreement, is very limited. I'd like to challenge the Council of State once again to say what concrete goods or services he is concerned about because Norway will export dramatically less of whether we don't tie to such an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e261	As most people have said here today, Europe faces major challenges – major challenges from a historical perspective. It was possible to reverse the economic challenges, so now things are on the right track, even in those countries that really went through the financial crisis. But now we are facing new challenges in the flow of refugees coming to Europe. This challenges us in two ways: Europe builds on many common values relating to human rights, respect for the individual and the individual's inevitable rights, even against the community. The second challenge is to be able to hold together and find common solutions when you are pushed from opportunity to opportunity, and where you can shift responsibility between yourself. I believe it is the values Europe is built on that have created well-being in Europe. It is precisely respect for the individual, the human rights and the inviolability of the individual that has helped to create the well-being and opportunities that we have in Europe today. When you're challenged the way you're going to be now, both in value systems and in keeping together, we have a lot of historical experience in how we're not going to deal with those challenges. In the course of tightening up, it is clear that a common European policy would have been much better to tackle these challenges. If we also agree on relocalisation within Europe, there may be limitations in the belief that these restrictions will actually work. The argument from the Centre Party is a little strange, that the free flow of thought in Europe makes relocation impossible. This is about as strange as saying that it is not possible to live in municipalities in Norway because we have free movement within Norway as a nation. When Europe is able to hold on to its values, it is also able to hold together when challenged and pressed, and also when refugees have been used as political press for other countries that want to get into a negotiating situation with us, it is important to promise and stand for the values that are believed to have contributed to and created welfare. I would also like to take the opportunity, on behalf of us at the external borders of Schengen, to thank all those who contribute to saving lives. We should remember that here we are dealing with regimes where human life has no value, and you like to use people as means and sacrifices to achieve other things. So to some other important milestones for our European cooperation in the future: Horizon 2020 and Erasmus were mentioned by the Minister as important measures to generate growth in Norway. Much of the green growth and the green economic development that we need to create in order to achieve the great goals we, together with the EU, have set ourselves – to cut 40 pst. of our emissions – requires that we actively participate in many of the research programmes and provide the opportunities that exist, including in European cooperation, to develop national businesses. We see the digital market growing. It is important here that Norway is given the opportunity to participate and that Norway sees the importance of harming the privacy of individual European citizens. I believe that the EU system has learned after they have been fooled by the creation of the Data Storage Directive. I hope that the Norwegian Stortinget has also learned from that process. The left is in principle in favour of all trade agreements that can open up more trade between countries. It is clear that TTIP and other negotiations can limit our space for policy. I believe that markets that are not governed are markets that do not work well. That is why we need to ensure that we have national powers to exercise political governance mechanisms, for example. in the field of the environment and climate, and that this has a possibility, whether we have concluded trade agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e284	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a thorough examination. At the same time, it was also an example of the fact that very many of the major challenges that Europe is about to tackle do not originate in Europe. They are completely unmanageable without a broader international setting – not least the climate crisis, which will be updated in Europe in the next month, and the great refugee challenge we are facing. I'll say something special about the two. The Paris Summit and the UNFCCC provide a great opportunity to move forward with international cooperation. I think I have to stress how serious it is to get a good deal there. After one was unable to get as far as one wanted in Copenhagen, international climate work stood in stagger for several years, and it took years after that to restart a process of new ambitions. I think it would be extremely difficult to get a new drive in that work without a good deal in Paris. At the same time, we already know that there will be a need for further ambitions and national measures across most of the world beyond what is likely to be agreed in Paris. For several years now, the EU has played a leading role in advancing the work of a global climate agreement. It has been very important. Norway has also been an important driver and leader in it, but there is reason to question that government recently has done in this area. Firstly, we have chosen to submit ourselves fully to the EU's quota system and to say that we have agreed objectives and ambitions. The new government has not taken any major new global initiatives, such as: The rainforest effort in its time was, which can set a real agenda internationally. And in the additional proposal and budget now, the government has chosen to cut significantly the funding of various climate and environmental measures, for example. rainforest and energy, just before the climate summit, which helps to legitimise that countries with high unexpected costs can cut in the climate area just before concluding a major agreement. What makes it particularly problematic is that funding sails up to be perhaps the most difficult issue in Paris. What I and others here from the pulpit have previously requested is the opposite; a special boost for funding from Norway towards Paris. I'm aware, of course, that Norway already contributes heavily, but a process would be necessary that brings new promises of funding on the table to drive commitments and a solution, not least to get many of the G77 countries, or the so-called developing countries, into a solution. The second theme is migration, or refugee crisis. There have never been so many refugees and internally displaced persons in the world since the Second World War as now. At the same time, the European refugee crisis is a lot of that we experience a lot of countries around the world are used to experiencing, that is, many refugees come to their country. I think the first responsibility for leadership is to establish that this is a major challenge, yes, but it is manageable. All those who have come to Europe as asylum seekers so far constitute today about 1 per million of Europe's total population – 1.5 per million of the population of the EU. Then there's a slightly larger part in Norway, but we're a country that has the ability to handle it. Firstly, it is necessary that a Member State should establish a permanent division of responsibilities in Europe and that Norway, as a Schengen country, should be part of it. It is also necessary to discuss more closely in Europe new and legal paths to Europe. There is now a series of initiatives taking place around Europe to allow searching for EU or Schengen embassies, the establishment of other forms of legal immigration. One reason why so many choose illegal roads is that there are no ways to try an asylum application in Europe. Finally, I thought that perhaps some of the most talkative thing about this debate is how far is the distance between the generally very positive attitude of the EU in this Chamber and the generally very negative attitude that we have been able to read over the years in Norwegian polls. I think there are few questions where the distance between the politicians on the Stortinget and the people is currently so great. I don't think the solution is either integration in itself or the very opposite, but better policy, and it's definitely not that closer integration is the answer to all the challenges Europe is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e297	Let me start by thanking you for the good remarks for the presentation. There is a broad consensus that the situation in Europe is more demanding than for a long time and that there are challenges that we share with the rest of Europe. This morning, the British Prime Minister will present his demands and letter to President Tusk with the United Kingdom's call for negotiations on changes in Britain's relationship with the EU. It will launch a new demanding process for EU cooperation, while addressing migration issues and other important and difficult issues. So there are significant challenges both in external and internal cooperation. Let me then link some comments to some of the comments. The representative, Hansen, raised the question of messages on European issues. We have announced that there will be a communication on issues related to the free movement of workers and welfare benefits in a European perspective. There will also be European dimensions in other communications and more can be achieved. The question of climate policy has been raised. Our dialogue with the EU on the joint implementation of climate targets is important, and our dialogue with the Storting in the process where the EU develops its policy here on Norwegian positions is also important. This is true of climate policy, but it is also true of energy policy, as the EU sees these in context. Both climate objectives and the Energy Union will have an impact on Norway, and therefore good dialogue with the Stortinget is important. To the question of the Energy Regulators Agency Acer: there are signs of progress, although it is probably not from the free pile we see it. There is at all no free space for Norway in European cooperation, but we hope that there will be further progress in these negotiations, because that is absolutely an important question. So the question of fish and market access for fish. We had improved market access in the negotiations on EEA funds and fish, which were concluded this summer. We continue to work hard to improve market access also for products where we do not have it today. The improvements we have achieved are improvements within a framework that limits. Some of the things that might shed light on the state of the marine food industry on the European market are the impact assessment on TTIP, which we are kicking off. It is not just about the European market, but it will contribute to the discussion on the situation of Norwegian seafood, among others. the European market. As regards the EEA funds, the representative mentioned that it takes time, which I pointed out in my presentation. Thus, the agreement on the EEA funds for the period 2014 to 2021 was initialled on 17 July by Norway and the Commission. The approval process on the EU side is withdrawn. We are in close dialogue with the Commission on this, and we believe, through the contact we have with the Commission, that the EU side will soon complete the approval process. All speakers have naturally touched on the migration challenge. It is a difficult situation, and there is also a situation that shows that although immigration, migration and refugee policies are a policy area where Norway is partly and indirectly linked to European cooperation, it is an area where we are more integrated over time and where there is a need for development. We are closely integrated into the development of joint control at the external borders and in cooperation on return and transfer between countries of asylum seekers and persons without legal residence. We are enforcing our common Schengen border in the north in line with our commitments, and there has been broad agreement in the UK that we are best looking after Norwegian interests in the area of refugee and migration through active cooperation with the EU. We should continue to do so, even when the EU's migration and refugee policy is breaking up today. We must maintain that more European cooperation is needed here, not less, and that means that more countries have to take responsibility, and that applies to countries within the EU. Norway takes a significant responsibility. There are others who have to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e320	Vegar Solhjell was in his contribution to the work on a climate agreement. My question to the Council of State is: What will be the consequences of the Norwegian climate action for the work on the Paris climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e325	In international climate work, Norway enjoys great credibility, not least because of significant funding efforts. Rainforest setting is one of those areas. We have also placed great emphasis on the need for better climate finance in the package needed to reach a good agreement in Paris. Then there is a need for several countries to make the necessary adjustments to the aid budgets to address the humanitarian challenge of receiving refugees. It is a legitimate area for the use of aid funds, and there will also be some consequences for climate action in the area of assistance. But it does not depend on the fact that Norway has a leading role in the international field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e330	I will come back to this with the common fulfilment of the goal of 40 pst. emission reductions. It is agreed that we aim for an agreement with the EU to meet that objective. This means that the EU is now preparing its actions to achieve that objective, and we will not have an agreement in two to three years' time. The Council of State said that the dialogue on the inputs we can make to the EU to try to influence, so that there are no actions there that are not entirely in our interest, is important. But the question is, how do you imagine that dialogue with the Stortinget? Because this is going to go fast, and some of it might come as directives that we have to take anyway through the EEA Agreement, other things will probably be more political. I believe that overall orientation in the European Commission on an oral basis is not sufficient. So how does the Council of State see that he's going to have that dialogue with the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e335	This is something we consider and have to evaluate on a continuous basis. So far, we have made input based on the discussion in the Storting on the Storing Communication on the joint implementation of climate targets. When the EU then specifies its legislation on climate objectives and related to energy union, it is natural to use the European Commission, but we do not exclude other forms of dialogue with the Storting on the development of Norwegian positions and the impact on Norway of the development of EU legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e340	I record that I did not get a response from the Council of State to what a TTIP agreement could actually mean in relation to which companies would get a bottom-up. But my question goes on something else. The government has had a hearing on the model of future investment agreements, and in particular there is strong resistance among respondents to the use of so-called investor-state dispute resolution mechanisms, ISDS, and there are many reasons for this, which certainly the Council of State has read in a hearing response. My question is: will the Council of State take the initiative of the government to provide a thorough explanation of the consequences of such agreements for the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e349	As you know, the Minister for Industry is dealing with the issue of model agreements on investment protection. The consultation process has provided important input that is now to be assessed. Then we'll see how we take this further, but it's not like the model agreements are to be adopted individually. The model agreements are the starting point for negotiations on free trade agreements, which will then be submitted to the Stortinget. But how we take that discussion further, based on the important consultation round that has been, the Minister of Industry will come back. Let me say that in terms of the impact on industries of the TTIP agreement, it is too early to say what concrete consequences it will have. There is no TTIP agreement, there are negotiations going on, but we know that both the industry, the seafood industry and the agricultural and food industries have questions about what will happen to them, and that is why we have started an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e356	There is no doubt that Norway has built up a great deal of trust in international climate work over a long period of time, and that we are already a very heavy player in financing – let me not doubt it – and one year of budget cuts, of course, do not turn it upside down. But there is just as little doubt that the direction of cutting the climate in the aid budget now is wrong before the Paris Summit, because increasing public funding in addition to the private can be a decisive part of what is needed to reach an agreement. There will be strong demands on it from countries in the south. If countries choose to manage their unexpected expenditure just before the Paris Summit to cut costs, it will reduce the chances of an optimal and good deal. Let me therefore ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that government's cuts in rainforest, energy and environment are an example of follow-up for other countries in the next month? Would he ask others to do like Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e361	It is not up to us to conduct neither development policy nor climate policy on behalf of other countries. We're in a leading role. In our additional issue, we have some proposals for cuts that are not disproportionate to the overall cut in the aid budget. We see that other countries are making significant redeployments in the aid budget, so Norway is not facing any negative outcome. On the contrary, we're still in a leading role, and we're not least looking at the forest effort, where there's every reason to give credit to previous governments, that other countries join in that effort as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e366	It might seem funny that other countries are making even greater cuts in the environment and climate in their aid budgets before the Paris Summit, but it seems to me that it would have been better if it were just a small country that did it, but I am aware that there are some countries like that, and that is why. It's stupid. So let me ask you another way, and without comparing it with other countries -- let me ask you this: Anything else like that, does the Council of State think that cutting down on support for rainforest, energy and climate generally increases or reduces the chance of a good deal in Paris?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e371	It was the representative of Solhjell who invited to compare with other countries by indicating that Norway is leading the process of redeploying aid budgets. So that's not the case. We have made some necessary adjustments to our proposal, which is now being discussed in Stortinget. I do not think we should exaggerate the impact of this type of proposal as we have a significant funding contribution in Paris and an international leadership role here that is not challenged by this redispatch. So I think that the weight of the challenge and the dynamics we now see in both public and private funding can lead to a good agreement in Paris, and where the Norwegian cut will not be a major factor in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e380	Like those who have spoken before me, I would like to thank the Council of State for a rich in content and, in my view, for a good explanation, supplemented by a good package of information from the Stortinge Group for EU and EEA information. The Council of State began its intervention by referring to the EU's offensive foreign policy strategies in 2003, to the EU we see today, which is both more interconnected, more complex and more contentious than before. It is challenging, as many have so far been involved in the debate. This has also led the EU and Europe to continue to shape the agenda in many countries. Yes or no, two words that create commitment to important debates, but also two words that create fronts in many countries in today's Europe when European policy is discussed. Last night we registered that a majority of the regional assembly in Catalonia wants to break free from Spain. The first feedback from Madrid is crystal clear – it will not happen – but they know that it will create sharp debates. Another word on the agenda in this context is Brexit. The question many are asking is: Will a majority of the population in the United Kingdom say no to the EU? I do not hope or believe that will happen, because I believe the answer is in a very important sentence in the Council of State statement, which has been and is still bearing on my yes to the EU, namely to ensure peace between the countries of Europe, but also to contribute to security in Europe's neighbourhood. In that neighbourhood, the United Kingdom has absolute membership, as expressed by the Council of State in its presentation. Governments are concerned with many issues in their presentation that should receive attention. The digital internal market is very interesting from the point of view of growth and competition. But we're going to be obs: in all possibilities new technology can contribute, there are clearly some challenges that affect me and you on good and bad, Big Data – big brother sees me – where data about me and my online usage habits have become billions of industry. Privacy becomes a key to what we have to and should have an alert eye on, even if it inhibits growth and trade. Climate challenges, security policies and economically challenging times have been on the political agenda for a long time, while migration and refugees were things that happened far away and on which others had to settle. Of course, we were going to help, but it was going to happen over there. It wouldn't work like that. During the night, one of the biggest challenges the world has experienced was part of the Norwegian political agenda nationally as well as in the local government around the country. The bubble that has protected us from the distress of the world has cracked. What happens on Storskog in my home country is very challenging. I just have to say that the government has been so far decapitated – big words in the media, but little action and little dialogue towards our neighbor in the east. That being said, we support the decision not to close the border. Unfortunately, I think it will take a long time for the Arctic route to go into history, where people on the run will cycle to our border with Russia. This brings me to another major challenge: the basements behind the human smuggling networks. It is good that the EU, with Norwegian support, really seems to be fighting hard against these cynical human smugglers. We've all seen the TV images that document human cruelty when money means more than a human life. It's become a billion-dollar industry of the worst variety. During a study visit to Sicilia in the fall, we met 26 young men who had survived a loss that killed over 800 people. I can sign that it was a strong meeting. But we also became familiar with how people on board the ‘Siem Pilot’ received people in distress. We got to participate in a Norwegian seamanship of the best variety, where the words dignity and respect were not just words on a paper, but there was action in the meeting between the crew and the people who were taken on board alive or dead. It says respect. We were told that the human traffickers have also begun to kidnap each other's migrants and then demand ransoms for them. These people must be taken with the means required. 340,000 people had landed in Sicilia in the last two years. When we ask how society can do it, the county councillor in Catania answers: It's our duty to help people in need -- our expectation of you is to accept some of them. Great forest has become our Catania, or Lampedusa. Then our answer cannot be to close the border between Norway and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e410	The dream of Europe is time-consuming. Many now travel from Europe's periphery with a hope of freedom, security and opportunities for a better life. For a long time, Europeans dreamed of a different and better life. Between 1815 and 1914, 60 million people left Europe. They traveled to North America, South America, Australia, New Zealand and Africa. Migration was the cause of almost all cohesion in purchasing power in the world before World War I. In the postwar period, many European countries have developed welfare societies unparalleled in history. Now several of the European welfare countries are gnawing in the fabrication. Many countries have survived, borrowed, and failed to carry out the necessary reforms. Greece is one example. But even a major act such as France has not balanced a state budget since 1974. We cannot accept anyone who dreams of a better life in Europe. We're going to help balance differences in the world, not by reducing our own standard of living, but by lifting others. That is why we must accept those who have a real need for protection and give them security and freedom. Those who come here without a need for protection will not be allowed to stay, but Norway will contribute to a better life from which they come. In the current situation, it is absolutely essential that there be a political arena where countries come together, break opinions and find solutions to cross-border challenges that cannot be resolved in isolation. The EU is such an arena. The EU is a driving force for positive change in the great European transformation we are facing. New jobs must be created in new industries. Competitiveness needs to be improved. The low-emission society must be realised. Digitalization must speed up. The migration policy must be coordinated. There is a lot of talent, competence and innovation in Europe, but there are also counter-powers in Europe that believe that tomorrow's opportunities can be triggered by yesterday's policies. We have to resist that – out there as at home. EU countries are our closest neighbours, major trading partners and important allies. Norway has succeeded in the last twenty years, not because we are outside the EU, but because we are de facto within the EU, as an integrated member of the internal market in Europe. Therefore, the development of European cooperation is also crucial for Norway. Energy and climate policy serves as a good example. Norway is a different country: 100 pst. renewable power generation and a major exporter of both renewable and fossil energy. Many point to Germany and the 'energy revolution' and think we have to do as they do. But we're not like them. Therefore, it is essential that the EU steers towards common objectives, but with flexibility to implement based on national assumptions. Joint compliance with the 2030 climate objectives gives us precisely this flexibility. This means that we can strengthen and further develop Norwegian renewable energy industry. This allows Norway to say yes to new sources of emissions, such as: Hydro's new aluminiumworks on Karmøy. We will reduce the emission intensity of the ETS sector through technology development and innovation. The goal must be the world's purest industrial production. It will also strengthen our competitiveness when emissions are given a higher price and the allowances are reduced. At the same time, the quota system allows Norway to continue to be an oil and gas nation. Gas is an important bridge to the renewable society, especially on a continent where the 10 largest emission sources are coal-fired power plants. At the same time, Norway has all the prerequisites for contributing to the further development of energy markets in our neighbouring countries, based on renewable energy. The Government has granted concession to two new inter-national connections with Germany and the United Kingdom respectively. It offers exciting opportunities for value creation in Norway. Another important pan-European project should be the development of cost-effective technologies for the capture, transport and storage of CO2. Norway has extensive cooperation with both US and European environments in this regard and must continue in the years to come. Norway will have to take a major cut in the non-quota sector when we reach an agreement with the EU on the 2030 targets. It is therefore gratifying that the government and the cooperation parties are embarking on a completely necessary change in the pace of climate policy. The transport sector is the sector where we have to do the most, in the absence of other low-hanging fruits. Norway is in a good position to create new green jobs in the wake of the transport revolution, not least in the maritime sector. We already see that Norwegian shipyards are leading environmentally friendly ships, and that Enova has launched its own programme to promote innovation and new technologies. Public purchasing power will play a central role in the years to come and contribute to speeding up development. Norway has all the prerequisites to pave the way for the European low-carbon society, and we are well in the process of delivering our share of the ambitious climate change climate change in the EU. Norway is part of the European Community, and we must take our share of responsibility for the development of the continent of which we are part. Norway’s operating space is larger than the EEA Agreement, although unfortunately it is less than if we were a fully-fledged EU member. It is both in the interests of Norway and Europe that we use the space we have, and it is therefore gratifying that the government has an ambition to work in real time. The option is to work in retrospect. It is in the nature of the matter that it is too late. Finally, let me thank the Council of State Helgesen for a good presentation that provides security and confidence in the government's European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e453	I note that the Council of State in the distribution pointed out that it was important to establish a good agreement for market access for fish, and – fortunately – there were some new duty-free allowances, among others. for filleted and processed products. There should be room for increased processing here to land. But had increased processing been a real bet area for this government, one might not have taken away the processing standard for the big operators before the aquaculture, as the government did in October. There may then be a measure of at least possible value in Norway and the best way to sell unprocessed fish from the country. In my view, the level of ambition should be more segregated, not least to ensure market access in the EU for what, in my view, is a future industry. 1 here in the country, simple seafood. In the light of a possible TTIP agreement, free market access for fish will be particularly important. Increased competition from American competitors can quickly become a reality. The low level of ambition was also highlighted during the hearing of the Report. St. 29 for 2014-2015, on globalisation and trade, and a concrete proposal on how to achieve better access to the EU maritime food market. There is also a desire for an impact assessment of the current situation and the potential for full market access to the EU. This wish I thought the minister should comply. Then we witnessed that the government when it was sympathetic, traveled to Brussels to give away customs protection on volume production for the farmers, but I'm not sure if one has intended to repeat the urge to negotiate without a large-scale majority behind him, or whether one will come to the Stortinget in advance to discuss what Norway's position should be. I would also like to remind you that when Norway negotiates trade in fish and agricultural products, this is linked to the structural relationship between the EU and Norway through the EEA Agreement and the two sectors are negotiated separately. At a meeting yesterday, well-known Listhaug admits this – it also stands in the nations today – so now it's just missing that the representative Nesvik recognizes the same thing. I also notice that the EU Ambassador to Norway says that the EU has not discussed connecting market access for seafood and agricultural products. Then there's probably no reason why we should do it. Another important point is: don't show all the cards before entering into negotiations! In the Article 19 negotiations on market access for agricultural products, the Council of State has stated that there are significant demands on the part of the EU. We expect the same from the Norwegian side. There is no reason Norway should not enter into these negotiations with as offensive demands as the EU has. Finally, I would like to point out how important it is to get the energy message in place quickly. This is a matter of urgency for the force-consuming industry, which, because of new line traversers, gets multiple line latency saying. The government with the supporting parties voted in favour of the Workers' Party's Document 8 proposal, which would secure viable and good line rental prices for the power-generating industry. One of the reasons was just working on the energy message, and then it must be allowed to ask where it is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e472	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. I first noticed in the statement that the State Council Helgesen underlined the following: ‘European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU. However, the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater. In the face of these difficulties, Europe continues to have low growth, high unemployment and an ageing population. Several countries face structural problems.’ It is important to be involved in this debate in the future, and I assume that it will be reflected in Norwegian foreign policy – including the structure of foreign stations. The Councils of State naturally also entered into negotiations on new EEA funds and access to the market for fish for the period up to 30 April 2021. I would like to commend the negotiators for a good result. But that's a lot of money. The agreement on EEA funds requires taxpayers to contribute an annual amount of 388 million. euro. This is an increase of approx. 11 pst. in relation to the previous programming period. I am satisfied with what to use EEA funds for, that strategic and targeted main sectors have been selected. In particular, I would like to give my support to prioritizing the following: innovation, research, education and competitiveness of justice and home affairs, including refugee and migration measures environment and energy; So a little worry. It is decided to shut down five foreign stations next year. One of the closures I react a little – or I stumble over. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' decision to close the embassy in Bulgaria during the first half of 2016. The decision has aroused reactions and led to letters of political leadership in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Stortinget – as many may be familiar with – requesting the adoption of the decision, including letters from the Bulgarian Parliament President, the contact point for EEA funds, Norwegian and Bulgarian business in Bulgaria and Norwegian and Bulgarian stakeholder organisations. I understand that the objective of the changes in the foreign apparatus is that Norway should have at all times a foreign representation that serves Norwegian interests best. The question I ask myself is: is it best not to have an embassy in Bulgaria? I wonder, as I said, about this closure and should have liked to have the Council of State's assessment of this today. How is it possible for Norway to continue to maintain good bilateral relations with Bulgaria? Or is the Council willing to take the matter further with its colleague, Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, for any review and to find out how to make the best of it? Bulgaria will continue to be an important beneficiary country of EEA funds, and I take the view that the closure of the embassy in Sofia will not affect the funding volume of Bulgaria in the next period. But I'm very concerned about whether the EEA funds, Norwegian taxpayers' money, are being used properly when you're not there. One thing is that as a FrP, I want the lowest possible tax burden, but it is probably so important that the taxes you pay are used correctly. In the case of EEA funds, Norwegian embassies play an important role. Bulgaria has been the fifth largest beneficiary of EEA funds, and next year it is likely to be the fourth largest country of destination — approximately. 1 billion. kr in the year to come. Bilateral relations are good. According to the SSB, trade has increased from 369 million. In 2010 until approx. 669 million. kr in 2014, i.e. close to a double. Telenor invested heavily two years ago, nearly 5.4 billion. NOK, when they bought up the second largest mobile phone company. A lot is going to happen in the future, so I hope you look at this more closely. Otherwise there are a few other good things the Council of State mentioned, among others. the establishment of an EU fund to help SMEs with risk capital. I am, of course, also curious about the future of Article 19 negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e513	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation in a field that is very important to us. I'm going to focus a little bit on the industrial policy part of this. Many of those discussing industrial policy have recently been engaged in the free trade agreements negotiated around the world, agreements between major acts such as the United States and the EU, the United States and a collection of Asian countries, Canada and the EU, and a number of bilateral agreements between the major acts and individual countries. What does this mean for Norway’s position in markets in the United States, Asia and the EU, markets that are in many ways the most important markets for Norway? Since we have in many ways put ourselves on the go in the forums where these negotiations are taking place, the agreement we have with the EU, here the EEA Agreement, is of the utmost importance for us to be able to go along with it. In short, our relationship with the EU is one of the most important tools we have to be able to be a little bit inside of what is happening. The EEA Agreement is therefore one of our most important trade agreements and has served us well since its inception in the mid-1990s. It regulates all economic activity between the contracting countries and the EU, with a few exceptions. For Norway, agriculture and fisheries are not covered by the free flow agreement — it has been dealt with in some additional protocols. These were clear political priorities when we signed the agreement, and therefore also governing the renegotiations we have today. And – I have to get a shot in – the fact that these two industries are kept out of business, does give the answer as to why it is natural that these interests are linked in today’s debate. An important element to be included in today's debate is that both the agricultural industry and the maritime food industry are then completely different in the 1990s from what they are doing today. The marine food sector has evolved to have an export value of about 1 000 tonnes. 60 B.C.E. kr. Contemporary research heads suggest that the value creation in the sector will be about 550 B.C.E. NOK in 2050. We describe here a complete cluster of knowledge at the height of what we know today from the energy sector and from the maritime sector: the capture and production of seafood, the supply industry from feed to finished goods, the knowledge part including research and management and, very relevant here, the recognition that this is a global industry with a global mission, where Norway can play a very central role – producing enough and proper food for an ever-increasing world population. This positive development fits very well into our strategies to raise other industries so that we stand stronger on the day that the oil and gas sector does not have the power to carry our economy to the same degree as today – or maybe yesterday. Nationally, we record a debate on market access versus import protection, sea food versus agriculture. We recognise, of course, that this is about political choices. TTIP and Article 19 negotiations intervene correctly. That's why it becomes problematic when we do this nationally only as a choice between fish and potato. The development of the marine food sector will largely focus on the cultivation of new species, new production methods and new high-value products in the bioeconomy field. This is where the knowledge environments in marine food and agriculture meet. When we visit green or blue research environments in bioeconomy, it's obvious how many common traits we find. These are environments that are involved in the internationalisation of their sector. These are environments that clearly see Norway as having natural advantages within this field, but also as a priority because we have now come a long way within this field measured against other international environments. That's why we're going to have to be careful to limit our considerations only to how many fish we can send out of the country, or how many liters of milk we can stop at the border. Free access to the market for seafood will enable Norwegian seafood to compete in the same arena as Chile, Canada and the United States of America is expected to be on after the EU has signed new agreements with them. On the other hand, this will also give us the opportunity to develop the bioeconomy here at home, as a large part of the marine food can be processed in Norway and Norwegian industry thereby accessing the residual raw material from such a production, the residual raw material that is very central to those who are to develop the new bioeconomy – also in the knowledge environments belonging to the green sector. So market access is about free flow of knowledge, technology and products of higher value than just fish and potatoes. We may be throwing away the opportunity to develop a knowledge cluster based on what we can today about the bioeconomy in the blue and green sector, so that in the Norwegian debate we seem to be saving a conservative and low-changing agriculture. I think we might not be able to afford that. I repeat, this is not a question of fish or potato. That is why there is every reason to congratulate the government on improving access to the sea food market. In the light of this debate, there is also reason to congratulate the government on its priorities when it comes to the EEA funds. Innovation, research, education and competitiveness is strategic priority No. 1 in the State Council statement. These priorities go straight into the picture we draw of a seafood industry in progress, a complete sea food cluster that takes Norway forward as a significant port and a significant seamat on a global scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e541	A short time ago, the State Council presented Helgesen on key EEA and EU issues in the future. In particular, the Council of States noted that European cooperation has hardly been more difficult over the lifetime of the EU, but the need for European cooperation has hardly been greater. Norway is a good country to live in too many, and we have good welfare arrangements. During the financial crisis, Norway was better off than many other European countries. It's not certain that the future will always be like this. An oil price lower than in the long run challenges our economy, and we rely on major shifts in Norwegian business to ensure our future well-being. It is therefore now important to implement reforms in product and labour markets in order to increase productivity, stimulate investment and increase employment, which in turn will contribute to economic growth and to the strengthening of public finances. One of the main challenges facing the welfare society in the years to come is the criminality of employment, mainly because it undermines the basic values of Norwegian society, but also because it affects workers exposed to unprofessional employers. We cannot have an A and B standard in Norwegian working life. Workers are entitled to good and predictable working conditions. This is why it is so important to follow the government’s strategy against crime at work. The strategy must remain multi-disciplinary, cross-political and transversal. A comprehensive strategy is the only dangerous path because labour crime is cynical and adapts quickly to new situations. Consumer employers who avoid taxes and taxes provide lost tax revenue that could otherwise finance good welfare schemes for those who need it the most. However, unprofessional employers also expose workers to social injustice and not least access to — and the ability to earn — rights of which pensions and other social benefits benefit others. Norway as a society has changed over the last decades through increased labour migration from EU countries. This has given many Europeans the opportunity to create a future in Norway. That's good. At the same time, companies from other countries have had the opportunity to compete with Norwegian companies for assignments in Norway. Competition for commissions is important, but it is to be done by following the rules of the Norwegian labour market. Combating labour-life crime is about actions and attitudes. We need to take action to combat crime at work, but at the same time we need to reverse attitudes that black work and lack of employment contracts and safety measures at work are acceptable. It's not. Combating labour-life crime is about building good attitudes and arming Norway for the future. The government takes the crime of working life seriously. Now we all have to stand together to get on with the Norwegian working life. The government wants to use EEA funds strategically and targeted in the next period. One of several key strategic areas is innovation, research, education and competitiveness. Another is social inclusion, youth employment and poverty reduction. These strategic areas will follow Norway through concrete action and, at the same time, evaluate along the way in order to adapt to changes where necessary. The principle of free movement and non-discrimination based on nationality is fundamental to ensuring an internal market, but we must assess whether we have found the right balance in our welfare achievements, so that we both support the right to free movement and ensure the long-term sustainability of people's rights. Norway is working with Europe to combat youth unemployment while building social protection. Social security exports may develop into an economic challenge, and it may provide unfortunate incentives if benefits adapted to a Norwegian cost level are paid to countries where they provide significantly better purchasing power. It is important to develop sustainable schemes that do not erode the Norwegian welfare model. The government has signalled that it wants to look at current arrangements and assess the possibilities of limiting and stopping social security exports within the international agreements on which Norway is bound. The EEA Agreement obliges us and, as you know, sets certain limits on what individual Member States can do to stop or limit social security exports. It is important that we base our policies on the space of action we have, and change where necessary. Norway is therefore pleased with the Commission’s initiative to discuss the export rules for child and cash support. The government will present a major report on the export of Norwegian welfare benefits next year. This will be an important review of current arrangements and at the same time provide a basis for future and sustainable policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e588	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e591	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. It is important to clarify that the crisis we are experiencing now comes at a time when the EU's foreign policy ambitions are not given and the EU's common security and defence policy remains historically at the forefront. Therefore, NATO and the security anchoring we have there are important to bring forward in this context as well. The crisis has shown and shows that it is difficult to act with one voice, that the resources being deployed do not always find each other, and that the coordinated effort does not always deliver the desired results. Strengthening EU decision-making structures is therefore necessary. Although there is considerable disagreement between EU countries, all countries have in common that they have their own challenges when it comes to refugees and migrants. Much good has been done: a distribution system has been put in place to deal with applications from around 160 000 asylum seekers. There are several ships deployed in the Mediterranean and an offensive against human traffickers and backers. Mechanisms for practical assistance to Member States in crisis situations have been put in place. However, it continues to be such that the countries of the EU peripheral zone are underfunded in view of practical assistance for the refugees they receive and are to register. 60 million. SEK for emergency aid and strengthening the reception apparatus in Serbia is therefore necessary and a proper facility for our support of the EEA funds. Many have criticised the EU for its inability to find solutions. I think it would be too easy to criticise the European Union as such in order not to overcome the greatest refugee crisis in our time. That is a reason why people are on the run, and that is a reason why Europe is your people fleeing. The challenge will be to find solutions to the conflict in Syria and Iraq and to combat terrorism and abuse on its own people. At the same time, we must mitigate the consequences of the dramatic increase in the flow of refugees. It is necessary to clarify refugee rights and to help those refugees in need of protection, and to send corresponding clear signals to those migrants who do not have them. The government parties invited yesterday to a broad settlement in this area, and it is our hope and our will that we should do this in the time to come. Europe is challenged on many fronts. Crisiss and conflicts in our neighbourhoods, both east and south, have spread. Terrorism, authoritarian regimes and a Russia that is not in line with our core values are still very clear. Still, there are major challenges in Eastern Europe, and we also need to address them in a case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e606	Several have been in the government's negotiations on Article 19, where one had its second negotiating meeting in September this year. The Council of State said in its article a little concrete about the further process. We are waiting for the Council of State to give more information about the EU's demands for Norway, what counterclaims Norway has made, and what one thinks about the further negotiations. As the Council of State certainly knows well, Norway does not have much to give on the agricultural side without our own production and food security. It is important for Norway that the government takes good care of Norwegian interests, not least when it comes to food and food production, both from the sea and from land-based production. The government came out very vehemently early in the period, with government councils sending out a signal that the government party wanted to remove the so-called ostetoll without coverage in the bulk of the population. The main message on globalisation and trade gives rise to some concern: «At the same time, excessive attention to self-sufficiency will be detrimental to food security and contribute to the very inefficient use of resources.» Furthermore, it states that there will be «significant reductions in customs protection as a result of future international agreements». These are not formulations that ensure long-term investment and investment in Norwegian land-based food production. There are few policy measures in the field of nutrition that have as much ringing effect as Norwegian customs protection. It facilitates a value chain corresponding to approximately 140 billion. kr in annual production, as well as doing our most basic task as a populist: to provide citizens with their security, their access to food, and to create businesses and jobs in almost every municipality in all of Norway. Frank Bakke-Jensen claimed that it would be wrong to rock a conservative and low-changing agriculture. It's a myth that the government's representatives should stop repeating. Agriculture is probably the industry with the highest efficiency growth over many years – far above the industry in Norway, for example. The representatives of the government party should also consider how one can ensure the further export of Norwegian fish based on real facts. EU net imports of fish increased by 60 pst. from 1995 to 2010. The Union's own production of seafood is declining. Major stocks have been overfished. With scarce fishing resources, the situation in the future is likely to be not high customs duties, but no or negligible customs duties, autonomously fixed to ensure the EU's raw materials needed. It is bad to have to say it, but today I saw my trust in the Minister of Agriculture. In any case, on behalf of the government, she has said that there should be no link between fish and agriculture. There is a lot else to right in this room, but I hope it's the one that stands for the government's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e630	The government wants to use EEA funds strategically and targeted in the next period. One of the main priorities of our cooperation with the EU is innovation, research, education and competitiveness. The EU Research and Innovation Programme, Horizon 2020, and the EU Programme for Education, Culture and Sport, Erasmus+, are key instruments for growth, competitiveness and innovation across Europe and are increasingly important for a Norway in transition. In 2016, we are expected to contribute more than 2.3 billion. kr to Horizon 2020 and around €0.5 billion. to Erasmus+. It is important that Norwegian actors make use of the opportunities provided by these programmes, which is why the government has prioritised, among other things. increase in aid schemes stimulating Norwegian participation. The priorities of Horizon 2020, the world’s largest research programme, are very well in line with our national priorities, which are increasing the quality of research and innovation, increased value creation and increased knowledge to meet the major societal challenges. In the 2016 budget, the Government has proposed to increase research and development appropriations by 2.1 billion. kr. It is a real growth of 4.1 pst, and EU cooperation is an important part of these priorities. Last year, the government presented a strategy for research and innovation cooperation with the EU and ensuring that Norwegian environments are able to win projects in the EU is important. The latest figures show that Norway has received 1.86 pst so far. of the money distributed as of July 2015. It is a small increase, but the government's objective is more ambitious, and therefore it is important that we concentrate research efforts so that we establish more internationally competitive research environments. The opening of offices in Brussels by NTNU, SINTEF and the University of Bergen illustrates the importance of European cooperation in the sector. Later today, we will debate the ERIC Act, to which the Stortinget will join, which is a legal framework for the organisation of infrastructure. The law allows Norway and Norwegian environments to be in the lead position in cooperation on important research infrastructures in Europe, and it helps to strengthen us as a research nation. The EEA Agreement links us to the EU's internal market. Research and innovation cooperation in the EU, and not least Horizon 2020, shall contribute to Europe’s competitiveness and to ensuring sustainable economic growth and jobs. It is important that Norwegian enterprises and research communities also participate in the cooperation, which provides both a knowledge base and open doors to Norwegian business cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e648	I take the floor in this debate because I am chairing the British delegation to the Council of Europe – a European Council dealing with the rule of law, democratisation processes and human rights. Very often, it is precisely the European countries and other neighbouring countries that do not have this on their hands, which cause some of what we see of crises and difficulties in terms of migration, the flow of asylum with refugees. What I thought I was going to draw attention to is the important area where Norway provides both contributions and assistance, namely search and rescue in the Mediterranean, and resulting from the EEA funds made available. The Council of Europe consists of 47 countries, while Frontex, where these actions are coordinated, includes 27 countries. Norway makes an important contribution; small and large ships, helicopters and aeroplanes are involved in this process of rescue and assistance in the Mediterranean Sea. We also contribute the ‘Siem Pilot’ rescue vessel to Frontex’ joint operation Triton, and I am pleased that the government will extend that contribution until the end of May if Frontex sees the need for the ship to be present. As the first official Norwegian delegation, our delegation, the Council of Europe delegation, was at Sicilia, where we met crews, so how the work was organized and handled, and not least met people in refugee camps at Sicilia. Our contribution also attracts international attention, because the way Norway has organized this work – with teams from both the Defence, the Police, the rest of the maritime crew, the Coast Guard, and with the leadership of the police, who lead representatives of Norwegian defence – is completely different from what we are used to at home, but also in an international context, and that work is done in a tacit, effective and necessary way. We also contribute with the rescue skate «Peter Henry von Koss» in Frontex’ joint operation Poseidon, and I am also very pleased that that contribution will be extended until the end of June, if it is considered necessary by Frontex’ side. In terms of human resources: sometimes you can say that it's the best we send out, and that does an important job, but I think to the full that the Greatness delegation – in meeting with crews – has seen that the work, which is assessed by the county council in that area, and also internationally, is the highest of what we can contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e659	No national State may survive without territorial control, including border control. This is the core of being a sovereign state, and there will always be something a state itself wants to rule over. International cooperation has given us many freedoms. Norway has the largest and most important judicial policy agreement through the 1999 Schengen Agreement. It relates Norway to the EU rules on travel free in the Schengen area, which means that no personal checks are to be carried out at borders. I also have to say that I am pleased, as the leader of the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council, to remember that it was originally wanted to maintain passport freedom in the Nordic region that allowed us to join the Schengen cooperation, which the later has developed dynamically – and more than certainly some of the smaller parties that are normally opposed to EU cooperation could stand in the way. But at least we can say that there is some of this that gives us a very effective tool in the fight against crime, for example. in the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking. Externally, towards third countries, common rules for external border controls have now been developed. Rules and policies on the common internal security in the Schengen area have also been strongly developed, with particular emphasis on combating what I mentioned – crime, terrorism and measures against illegal migration. An important development has also been the establishment of the Frontex Border Control Agency in 2004, which helps coordinate information-driven operations at EU level in order to strengthen security at external borders. In 2007, a Border Control Security Team under Frontex has also been established, which can move out and assist a Member State if a mass movement occurs across an external border, and the country itself is not able to deal with the situation. With regard to our own Schengen border with third countries, at 196 km, it is a natural question to what extent we ourselves draw on these resources in the Schengen cooperation, on Frontex’ border control preparedness team, not to be left alone. Our authorities may have to show more strongly that the enforcement of the Storskog border is not a purely national matter, but it is also a national matter. When I meet people's concerns about seeing thousands of migrants move unhindered weekly across the border at Storskog and why the transition is not closed, at least temporarily, I have to admit that I understand them. I believe that today's situation is unsustainable and unacceptable and needs to be replaced as soon as possible by lasting solutions as a real alternative to closing that border crossing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e675	It has been a long time since Europe has faced such challenges as they are now. Economically, Europe has not yet recovered from the financial crisis. The growth is waiting, the unemployment rate is high. Security policy is more acute than for a long time. Russian policy towards Ukraine in particular challenges its violation of international law. The crisis in Ukraine, which has not yet been resolved, has changed the foreign policy climate in Europe. Today's great threat is the climate challenges and the reduction of CO2 emissions. Europe has traditionally played a rather progressive role in this way and has been active in achieving a better environmental policy, which is good. Norway should, of course, support this, but it remains to be seen whether the world will see a solution to the climate problems in Paris. The refugee situation comes to the top of this and is acute. All these challenges are shared between the EU and Norway. Today’s debate and speeches show that many in the United Kingdom are concerned about these issues and will take action, whether on good climate action or on trade policies that benefit Norwegian interests. Many of these points of view also need to be addressed in European cooperation – in whole or in part. Norway’s relationship with the EU remains stable after Norway said no to Norwegian membership. But the representative Svein Roald Hansen is concerned about something important: have we organised our European policy well enough in a closed selection, as the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets is? Perhaps it is not enough when we face major issues such as climate negotiations in Paris and the refugee situation, which are far more demanding than what has previously been seen in both the EU and Norway. In the past, it was easy to distinguish foreign policy from domestic policy – what a nation state should be responsible for, and what international, supranational bodies should be responsible for. This distinction is increasingly being erased, and I am uncertain whether we are in the process of organising European policy. Of course, there are limitations in the fact that we are not a full member of the EU, but given the seriousness of these issues, it may be time to look at how we organise European policy in an even better and not least more transparent way in the political bodies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e693	I never stop wondering about the lack of analysis that is in these presentations under different governments. The book «Norwegian paradox – About Norway’s Relationship with the European Union» of 2014, published by the University Publisher, was an important contribution from ARENA research to the Norwegian Research Council’s research programme entitled «The importance of the Grunn Act for the development of Norway as a democratic state», discusses inter alia. this in an analytical way. This document states that what is developing in the EU is ‘an experiment without a model’, and what is behind that statement is that one has a euro without a finance department. So one has a single currency without a finance department, which is not in other parts of the world. This would mean that one is less well equipped to deal with imbalances between the different parts of such a Union. When the representative Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party says that there is a total breakdown of the Schengen external border, everyone understands that there will be an increasing imbalance between the different states, states – what you want – within the European Union. So there is a need for a larger common policy. However, it is opposed to democratic forces within the EU that do not want to do so. So the problems will just increase. In the field of working life, free movement from countries with very large differences in both unemployment and pay and working conditions will lead to major migration challenges, and the fight against labour-life crime and social dumping we must work with. However, with today’s planned organisation of imbalances in the power of Norwegian working life between employers and employees for the benefit of businesses, there are only growing problems, which make it more difficult to ensure the activity of refugees who need activity for the temporary stay. The Nordic model of balanced power relations between employers and employees, between producer and trade, is under very pressure and can be ensured over time only when elected representatives can correct and control the cross-border capital forces and control the cross-border movement of labour, with the exception of the Nordic countries, where we have equivalent relationships and there is no problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e704	In a debate that has not been marked by the great controversy, it may have been surprising, however, that the strongest contribution to bridge construction came from the representative Navarsete, who said that she trusted Minister of Agriculture Listhaug. I choose to take it as a good sign. We are in the process of Article 19 negotiations. We're going to keep the Stortinges informed about the progress in them. We do not have many offensive demands to join the table from the Norwegian side, so the representative Heggø will have to wait patiently for it, but there are demanding negotiations. Let me just also say that on my first visit to Brussels, where I made clear what was the government's position on the issue of ostetoll, I also made it clear that we are a minority government, and that this is a big decision. I also find it interesting that seafood and market access for seafood have so much attention here today. It shows a recognition of the importance of the marine food industry to become a Norwegian economy. It has a completely different meaning today for Norwegian value creation than at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Then I have to agree with the representative, Tetzschner, that we are in a difficult situation at the north border as regards the handling of those who have come in. The aim is to ensure that persons with manifestly unfounded applications understand that they will be returned to their country of origin. But it is also demanding in dealing with the border situation. We are in a close dialogue with Russia on how to deal with this situation. Border management is a very important element in our relationship with Russia. It has been well managed under changing circumstances for decades, and after we have become a Schengen member, it has been managed in line with our Schengen obligations. We want it to continue. We have a common interest with our Russian neighbours in the fact that there are arranged border conditions. We are in dialogue with Russian authorities, including between the Norwegian and Russian Border Commissioner and through other channels. We have considerable experience talking to Russia about common challenges in the north. In such a difficult matter as this, it is important that we act properly and despicably, and we are now doing so in a concrete dialogue with the Russian authorities. Finally, let me just touch briefly on the question of the embassy in Bulgaria. It is natural that we adapt the outdoor equipment of the EEAS to needs and resources. The closure of the embassy in Bulgaria will not lead to a reduction in EEA funds, and we have the ability to deal with relations with Bulgaria from other embassies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e719	The Council of State has given a good account of important issues in the cooperation between Norway and Europe. It is a cooperation based on common interests and common objectives. The results are good. At the same time, the Council of State does not conceal that there are many challenges that need to be resolved jointly by Europe. The financial crisis shows that. The refugee situation shows that. I am grateful for the optimistic realism of the Council of State in describing developments in Europe. For those of us who believe that cooperation is better than alone, it is good that the vision of the community in Europe is kept high. It is the best strategy for peace, welfare, security and the environment in our part of the world. I would like to touch on one area of cooperation of great importance, namely the extensive judicial cooperation between Norway and Europe. Developments show more organised crime that is becoming more advanced, borderless, brutal and cynical. This is very resource-intensive to detect, investigate and prosecute. It is absolutely essential that we fight this crime. We see it takes new forms, it adapts to new criminal opportunities. Trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, drugs, arms trafficking and cybercrime are becoming more boundless. Employment crime is another example. It's spreading. At the same time, more sectors are affected, and it attacks the very lifeblood of a country's economy, namely value creation. The seriousness is further reinforced by alarming trend analyses that point to increasing cooperation between organised criminal environments and terrorist organisations. All of this requires international judicial cooperation. We participate and contribute to Europol, Eurojust and Frontex. This cooperation brings great benefits to our own fight against crime. We need to cooperate more, not less, on a broad spectrum of tactical police work, intelligence, investigation and prosecution. In addition, we need to strengthen efforts to recover financial benefits from crime and to prevent the possibility of money laundering. Europe provides the necessary backbone for this cooperation. If we are to succeed in combating serious and advanced crime at home, we are totally dependent on broad, trusting and effective cooperation with Europe. We need to cooperate more closely, and that's what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e734	Just a few words on the debate on seafood versus agriculture and the Right's view on the agricultural actors. In the right, we are very aware that agriculture is a high-conversion industry, an industry that is able to cope with change, and that has been through large conversion processes for many, many years. There is also a bit of the problem with the debate. I would like the representatives of the Central Party to lift that agriculture when discussing competitiveness. Why not use those players in Norwegian agriculture who are competitive, who are adaptive and who are able to use modern research and development to develop their operations? Every time there is a question of import protection, and every time there is a question of competition from outside, a picture is painted that all Norwegian farmers will die. When the Right says we're going to have a balanced import protection, it's in recognition that we're part of a larger context. We have to deal with Europe and the rest of the world in a slightly different way than what you do in the Center Party. Where the Right uses research, development and strong agriculture as front soldiers in this debate, the Center Party uses masons. It doesn't make this a good debate, and that was a little bit of my point when I said in the post that as soon as we get to the research environments and the knowledge environments in the blue and green sectors, they're the same. Then you're competitive, then you use the knowledge of what you can, and then you're free to say that we're the world's leading player. But the centre party and the actors would like that debate down to discuss the potato or fish. It's too small, it's too introvert, and it's too small a thought that we in Norway should dress with it. We're going to raise the areas where we're good, and we're also good in agriculture. Then we need a balanced import protection so that both industries can participate in the development and in the markets that are coming. It also needs to reflect the policy we take with us when we go out and negotiate market access and market agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e745	Europe has been facing the greatest refugee disaster since World War II. In 2014, 250,000 illegal immigrants arrived in Europe. In 2015, it is estimated to be the multiple. If the right to travel freely in Europe is to be maintained, the external border of Schengen must be properly respected. In this way I have no concern for our 196 km long border in the north, but I have a little concern about the border crossing point in Storskog. Every day we get reports of an authority apparatus stretched to the gap point in Storskog. Therefore, it is important that we now have the resources needed to deal with the situation there in a good way. Migration flows are a humanitarian challenge, but there is just as much a security challenge. This was clearly explained when the Justice Committee was visiting Europol in Brussels. I noticed that the Minister said that the possibility of travelling freely in Europe could be maintained, several countries in Europe must take responsibility for the functioning of Schengen cooperation. There is the challenge – so simple and so difficult. Since 2006, we have seen that there has been a dramatic increase in cross-border organised crime. It is an expression of the disadvantages that also accompany the possibility of being able to travel freely in Europe. Recognising that these problems cannot be solved by knocking on national borders, that something has to be done before that, Norway has actually launched two assistance programmes, which are to be stepped up to 200 million. kr – one related to organised crime and one related to radicalisation and violent extremism. The government is also committed to strengthening the presence in the Mediterranean by increasing the allocation for that purpose by 10 million. kr in the 2016 state budget. The situation we are now facing is an alarming disaster. It is evident that Frontex’s risk analysis was conducted last year. A lot of what we are now witnessing is described – as they said was going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e760	Only a few comments at the end of a debate show that there is broad agreement on the need for a common European response to migration and refugee challenges. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, underlined the importance of cooperation with the EU in the area of migration as members of Schengen, and also the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, of SV pointed out that we had to have a sustainable distribution of responsibilities and that Norway should participate. The representative Nesvik also said something that I noticed, that it is important to protect and further develop the EEA Agreement. I hope he speaks on behalf of the whole party of the Advancement Party, because we do, at least outside this room, get a little other signals about the last one. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen said that moving across borders is okay in the Nordic region – as I understood him – because the conditions in the Nordic region are pretty similar. I also note that because it means that it is not the principle of free movement across borders that Lundtigen is against, but that it is within how wide a framework. That's an observation we need to have with us. If there are too many differences in an area where there is free movement, it will affect the movement – to put it that way. But that principle can lie there is a good thing that you can agree on – also on the part of the Centre Party. Then Lundtigen said something that I also agree with, namely that the EU is, as he called it, an experiment – I would say cooperation – but without a role model. Yeah, that's right. It's unparalleled. It's something completely new, driven primarily by a desire to end war. The time that the EU has existed is the longest time in Germany’s history without their involvement in war. But it is also driven by economic integration that calls for common rules and cooperation on those challenges. I want to say like Robert Frost: Too many see things as they are, and say, "Why?" I dream of things no one has seen, and I say, Why not? It is the spirit they had, the people who created the EU and I miss Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e777	It's important to have dreams – it's important to have dreams about a better life. But when the representative Svein Roald Hansen gets into the point experiment without a role model, one must, of course, include the whole story. For what is disastrous, what is fatal, is that one goes on with a single euro without a finance department. This one does not know from historical experience, because in a large territory, as the EU is, there are different economic situations, and then one has to have a government that can correct imbalances. It's called a finance department. That's the way it is in the United States, that's the way it is in every country. This is a very serious problem, and not least the former leader of the European Movement is in agreement, because that is why one has the argument about the United States of Europe. When I asked for the word, it was because of Bakke-Jensen, who said that fish or potatoes are too small. I quite agree with that – it is too small. But what's big is the green shift, and what's important is that the term 'green shift', which is abstract, has to be concrete soon. If the green shift is not to involve the renewable natural resources that you have in the sea and on land, which have its basis in photosynthesis, and that everyone working in that value chain at sea and on land gets a better profitability, organized by new framework conditions, we will not get any green shift in those industries at least. There are proposals in the Storting to set up a green investment company to ensure the commercialisation of new products based on these renewable resources, which is huge, and it is very exciting to see how things are going. But this is a big and important discussion, which is about something far more than fish or potatoes. With regard to today's agricultural policy, it does not show any sign of the green shift. It's a radical change in Norwegian agriculture based on that it's 6 pst. Productivity growth in labour consumption per year, without real income growth, and it is weak customs protection that means that one cannot take out the prices that one needs in the market, which means that just the companies that Bakke-Jensen here talks about are future in Norwegian agriculture have never been more dependent on state subsidies. So today's policy leads to the Right producing agricultural holdings that are becoming increasingly dependent on state subsidies, which is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e786	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e800	We've had Cristin, and now we get ERIC. If it will result in a closer relationship between them, the Storting should not go away, but it is not unlikely. What we are now doing is that we are even more involved in the framework conditions for research in Europe. ERIC is a research collaboration in the form of closer cooperation on research infrastructures, i.e.: databases, collections, laboratories and the kind that are very important to today's researchers. So the legal framework for this is in this law. With this, I, as the rapporteur, have briefly given a piece of what the ERIC is, and for those who want to know more, I refer to the proposition. In brackets, CRIStin is a Norwegian system that works with research documentation and access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e807	There is a great deal of agreement on this matter, and that is very good. Therefore, it does not have to be extended to a very large extent, except to say that Norwegian participation in European infrastructure is important to our commitment to European research, and not least to our ability to take an active part in Horizon 2020. We also know that in transition times and in a Europe marked by an economic crisis, research infrastructure is a priority, both at national and European level. So I'd like to add that we're in the initial phase of working to establish two ERICs in Norway. This is CESSDA – a collaboration on social-scientific data services that has started up in Bergen – and ECCSEL, which is a collaboration on research on carbon capture and storage. The ECCSEL project has Norway's technical-natural-scientific universities and SINTEF as Norwegian participants and will be added to Trondheim. The two ERICs are planned to be established during 2016. In my view, this legislative decision is a small but important step for increased Norwegian participation in European research cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e830	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e837	This matter concerns a proposal from the representatives of Trond Giske, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, Marianne Aasen, Tone Merete Sønsterud and Simen Steinnes on early school work, and I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the examination of this proposal. All members of the Committee agree that adapted training should be a basic principle in Norwegian schools and that early efforts are important to strengthen the learning of students. Although much has been tried to succeed better with early efforts, we cannot yet say contentment. We don't manage well enough to address each student's challenges as early as possible, and figures from the primary school's information system show that there are almost three times as many people who receive special education at the 10th stage as at the 1st stage. The Committee considers it particularly important that the school should work with the basic skills of its students in reading, writing and billing, and that students who are struggling with this should receive good follow-up during the first years of school. The members of the Committee also agree that the proportion of pupils in need of special education can be reduced by strengthening regular education. The Committee has decided to attach the proposal to the minutes, but two minority proposals have been put forward, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the Labour Party, respectively. For the Christian People's Party, early efforts are one of the most important areas of school policy. There are too many children who feel that they are getting help too late. There are too many who actually fall off the load during the first years of school, and when we can't close the knowledge holes as they occur, it becomes a difficult task to bring these students back in later. We see some very clear contexts in the various statistics within the school. Both children with a foreign background and children of parents with a low socio-economic status are overrepresented in special education, and exactly the same students are overrepresented in non-response statistics. The big question is how can we help these students before, so that they don't become part of these statistics? I am pleased that the four majority parties on the Stortinget have agreed on a teacher's vow and a targeted commitment to the continuing training of teachers. I want to pay tribute to the Left for negotiating funds to increase the skills of non-qualified workers in school – a bet of all four parties is at the back of their hearts. There is no doubt that qualified teaching staff are essential for providing students with good training. But if we ask ourselves what is the most important thing in order to be able to give the students help as early as possible, we should listen to what the teachers themselves say. From the Education Association you are crystal clear: the most important thing is more teachers, especially the youngest students, so that teachers are given responsibility for fewer students each and every one of them. When two out of three teachers say they have too little time for their students, we have to take them seriously. And the message of the teachers has good support in research. Several research reports and reviews, including OECD Education at a Glance 2014, conclude that increasing teacher density is of particular importance for students’ learning at the lowest class stages. Those who want particularly much left for increased teacher density and smaller group sizes are the students who are professionally weak, there are students of foreign origin, and there are children of parents with low socio-economic status. These are exactly the same students who are overrepresented in both non-response statistics and in special education. So investing in more teachers and more time for each student, so that teachers can be more able to follow up the students well enough and address the challenges early, is a very good and very targeted action to help those who need it. That's the most important thing we can do to succeed in early school. In 2014, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a staffing standard in primary school. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that, but in the budget negotiations a year ago, the four cooperation parties agreed to earmark funds for some 700 new teaching positions for the youngest students. We know what works, we know what needs to be done. This is a bet that the Christian People's Party is going to work for even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e856	Every single day, thousands of aircraft arrive in Norway. A comprehensive device has been put on the move to get us from A to B – the staff who care for check-in, security controls, total check-in of the aircraft before each departure, cabin crew, pilots and employees in the flight tower – all of this in order for us to get off the farm safely, for example. from Oslo to Bergen. A sea of technical factors must be in place to do well, as must a sea of human factors. We don't accept that it's going to go wrong. All aeroplanes shall proceed safely. Every day, tens of thousands of teaching hours are offered in the Norwegian school, for even more students. A comprehensive system is being set up for students to learn as much as possible – skilled teachers, educational support staff, child and youth workers, janitors, SFO staff, commercial staff, etc. A sea of material and technical factors must be in place to do well, a sea of human factors as well. In spite of this, we accept that a little bit too many people don't get completely into the goal. Each year it is approx. 28 000 students who do not complete basic training in a normal time. Around half complete and never complete the initial training. Many of these have already fallen from primary school. These figures are not new, nor is it new that there is an early effort that is needed to achieve greater success. Six years have passed since the Red-Green Government proposed a change to the Training Act, where the school owner’s obligation to organise early work for 1–4 students. years were fixed. Despite this, we know that relief is often taken too late. This can be illustrated, for example: by looking at the distribution of special education at school. GSI figures from 2014 to 2015 show that the proportion of pupils with special education has flattened, with a modest decrease in the last four years. But the figures still show, as the rapporteur pointed out, that there are three times as many special classes in the 10th grade as in the 1st grade. We must be able to say that this means that not enough has been done in the implementation of early school interventions. That's not okay, at least not as long as we know how important early work is for the students to succeed further in the training course. The Workers' Party therefore proposes that the government present an overall case of early work, and that all students who have the right to do so should learn to read, write and calculate before the end of the second class. We all agree that early efforts are important, and I am very pleased with both real science strategies and read and write strategies. However, this proposal is about trying to put the effort into a whole – raising children’s and young people’s learning beyond time-limited projects and strategies, thinking of early work together, not individually in subject areas, that it is about real science and reading, but also about school health services, enough pedagogical staff, the time of teachers and the organisation of school days. It's about the results of the screening tests, which we established, being taken seriously – that in this room we will make sure that the students get the help they need, that it happens, rather than that the attitude is that we wait and see. We have to make sure that the school owners have good routines to follow up and apply extra measures quickly when a student hangs a little behind. In this context, we also need to consider setting up national standards for the follow-up and organisation of pupils who are struggling with one or more of the basic skills – systems that are flexible and simple, and which do not necessarily have to mean long investigations and even longer procedure before action is taken. Early effort costs money. We've seen for years now that the municipalities are forced to cut in schools to get their budgets to go up. It's serious. That is why we proposed to increase the municipality's income by 3 billion. kr, of which 2 bn. SEK was free income, including: to employ more teachers. We also proposed a special effort on early efforts as a follow-up to the Workers' Party's promise of a billion to read, write and bill, because we know that there is an investment that gives interest. With this I am promoting the proposals of the Labour Party alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e877	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the two proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e880	Early efforts are important, and I would like to thank the proposers for bringing forward proposals that promise an important debate. I believe that we in the Committee too agree quite on the importance of this issue. In addition, I would say that there is a somewhat different approach to the discussion between the different parties. Let me just start by saying that the committee unanimously has pointed out some things. We agree that too many people are falling away. It's a number that's been high for too long, and neither of us can lend us back and say that we have all the solutions. But much of this is associated with early efforts. Then I would also like to remind you of the results we have had in terms of the reading and writing strategy through the Knowledge promise – that the reading training actually seems to work very well because we have had a previous effort there. This is the experience we should take with us further when we are now also going to promise, for example. real science. It is worth noting that a number of measures and projects have already been launched to raise early efforts: a separate read and write strategy, a separate real-life science strategy, and more resources are being deployed in 1–4. the stage of a settlement between the four cooperation parties, which also includes funds for follow-up research to see how this actually works, and how it promises students' knowledge in the past. I would also like to highlight the continuing training effort undertaken by the four cooperation parties, which means raising the competence of the individual teacher in the classroom, which in turn enables them – as the front line of the knowledge society – to lift every individual student who needs it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the longer term, teacher training is now being extended to a five-year master's course and that a demand for skills is being put in place with retroactive effect, which will give all teachers in ten years the promise they have long sought. Then I'll just draw out the refugee situation we now have. At a time when you're discussing narrowing down and all those you're going to turn around at the border, there's also a lot that's going to stay. It's going to put Norwegian school and school policy in a slightly different light. We need to look at the resources to adapt education better, maybe for two children with very different backgrounds, very different starting points, but both with demands for a good school offer. The Norwegian Training Act is quite clear that adapted training should be provided. What's the big question is how we're going to be arming Norway and the school in the future to receive even more of the students who are entitled to adapted training, and lifting them with early efforts. This is where I want to warn against too much detail control. In addition to the measures that I have now taken, with both a skill gap within the school and more resources of between 1 and 4. There is another mantra that has become very popular, and that is not to say that you should control the teacher too much, saying that the teacher should be a teacher. It's written whole books about how important it is for the teacher to be a teacher. Then I'm a little worried when the same parties – or in this context: the same party – who have been very concerned to promise that the teacher will be a teacher, time and time again in this matter are promoting more proposals for centrally directed actions. I think, to be absolutely honest, that there is a debate that has to come to a greater degree than before. I think that we also need to look more closely at how we're going to put resources better targeted at those who really need it. But at first, which is the Workers' Party's proposal in this case – 1) national standards for the follow-up of those who are struggling, and 2) ensure automatic organisation, i.e. that we from the Storting and the State should automatically go in and create a kind of standard, it could be a time thief at worst. That is why we need to be careful when we're going to make the new school policy, adapt education to those students who need it, that this not only becomes more bureaucracy, more over-management of the teacher in the classroom – a teacher to whom we are committed to strengthening the status of. So one of the things that I'm glad that the committee is also clear is that the mapping of students' skills is important. The fact that we have screening tests that enable us to identify which students are struggling makes us better able to deploy the resources. Here, too, the municipalities as school owners have a responsibility to be more able to deploy resources. Once in a while, when you're going to discuss it at Stortinget, you start talking about how to override this, create national standards, join the local government, override the principal, override the teacher and make your own rules. I don't think that gives a better school, and therefore the recipe instead of providing a real level of competence, is to look into how the resources put into 1-4. not least ensure that all students receive the training they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e897	I want to start by thanking the representatives of the Workers' Party for promoting an important issue of early school work. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on the proposal and for a thorough review of the matter. Adapted training is a basic principle in the Norwegian school. Early school efforts to strengthen pupils’ learning and reduce the need for special education have been a cross-political objective for many years. Although much has been done to strengthen early school efforts, the results are not good enough. Students’ results are not as good as we should have ambitions about in a knowledge nation like Norway, and school dropout is still high. The Progress Party wants more students to exit initial training with the knowledge and skills required to become a participating citizen in society. We recognise the problems that need to be solved, and we in the Progress Party will stress that there is reason to be optimistic on behalf of the school and students. We now see a lot of positive involvement in many people working at school, and we see what enormous opportunities Norwegian children and young people have in the Norwegian educational system. Effective and quality-enhancing measures are being implemented in the teacher’s lift, in the real-time vocational training and in the professional sector. The Progress Party believes that we are now on the right track in the field of education. In particular, we will bring forward the real science strategy and the read and write strategy implemented by the government. Here, there is a clear objective of strengthening the basic skills of students early in school, which will in the long run lead to less non-response. We will also underline the importance of good school ownership. The municipalities as school owners must show the willingness to actively use school statistics, national test results and other test results, etc. In the context of rapid action in the field of education. Another measure to which the Progress Party is positive is the historically high commitment to teacher skills development undertaken by the government. The development of teacher competence is the responsibility of kindergarten and school owners, but government and ageing have taken responsibility and play an important role in the implementation of continuing training provision for these. Through the strategies Competence for the future kindergarten, the Teachers' Lift and Quality Competence, government and growth have invested considerable resources in continuing training in priority subjects and areas. This contributes to good professional and educational quality in kindergarten and initial training, which will benefit teachers, students and society as a whole. The Progress Party is also pleased that there is a requirement for teachers to be deepened in the basic subjects in which they teach. Competence requirements, continuing training and five-year teacher training from the Teacher Lift increase the competence and professional security of teachers, thus improving opportunities for good resource use and early effort. This will once again give rise to increased levels in school. A good school gives young people the joy of learning and the feeling of mastery. The good teacher has a key role to play in achieving a good learning environment, with particular attention to the basics and early efforts. We in the Progress Party have expectations that the bet on teachers and other ongoing work will produce visible results in terms of both performance and school dropout.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e918	It's an important theme that is seen on today's business map through the setting we're now going to debate. I would therefore like to use the opportunity to thank the proposer. But when that's said, it's by no means a new theme. I myself, as a meeting alternate representative, have participated in several word changes in this Chamber on the importance of early school work and the school's responsibility for facilitating appropriate training and necessary reinforcement measures for all the students. It is in these days almost nine years since the red-green government presented its own big message about early school effort. St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007 had the title ‘... and no one stood still — Early effort for lifelong learning’. The background of the message was that Norwegian education had been characterized by a wait-and-see attitude for too long. Because of the belief that the problems will eventually be solved, it doesn't match research and knowledge of training, it seems. Thus, early efforts would be the driving force for the policy and practice of the classroom. I know, therefore, of some wonder, and also some frustration, that it is still necessary for us to debate the subject. With so much research, monitoring and clear expectations from national school boards, it is disappointing to hear that there are still school owners who do not follow the necessary reinforcement measures and that the use of individual measures before special education remains at a high level. For what was the prescription in the announcement of the impending Council of State Øystein Djupedal? Yes, priorities of support measures for elephants with problems at the first steps of the children's ball instead of the last ones, i.e. the same thing as we repeat in the setting now, nine years later. For all parts - the school is not characterized by standstill. In retrospect, there has also been a change. This has added to the need for early schooling. Many teachers do a good job of identifying needs and working systematically to put in place the right actions at the right time. However, as a consensus committee refers to in the setting, there is still a growth in the use of special education beyond the school cycle. The primary education information system, GSI, presents statistics and facts, but what solutions will the government present to reverse a trend that turns out to be so tough to change? For an alienation with godfire valley blood, it's nice to be able to draw a municipality from the area that has changed practice and can be good results. The Deaf municipality is a example of its utility. In just a few years, the need for special education was halved precisely because they changed their practices and managed to meet the needs of students early. They have, among other things: the introduction of a two-teacher system and, in combination with a higher level of competence among teachers and several research-based educational systems, the quality of education is enhanced and the needs of students taken care of in a better way than in the past. But once again to special education in the school: The high use of individual decisions on special education that we still have has has another side: GSI figures show that for the 2012–2013 school year it was used approx. 8.5 million assistant hours for special education, against approx. Six million lessons. That means it's using 42 pst. several hours for special education where assistants are involved, than those reported as teaching lessons for special education with pedagogical staff. There is every reason to ask questions about this resource use, not least the quality of the supply. Although assistants in the school do a good job and are an important resource in the school, they cannot take responsibility for the part of the education that obviously requires foreign educators. Once the PP service has decided that the student needs help in addition to regular education, it is not useful to "outsource" this to unskilled assistants. The centre party believes that the scope of individual decisions on special education can be reduced by strengthening the regular training. Such a strengthening has led to increased learning density and skills development in the special field of education, as the Dovre vision fasitite suggests. In this setting, the Committee of Consecutives actually wrote that higher learning density is actually expected to be a strengthening measure. I hope that means that the Right and the Council of State also now recognise that learning density is a relevant factor in improving learning exchange for the student and giving the teacher a fair chance to increase the quality of teaching – for everyone and for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e939	The size has determined by the Training Act that the training is to be adapted to each individual student, whether early or late in the course of training. Early efforts are, however, particularly important since students will work later in training if they do not get basic skills in reading, writing and billing. Putting in effort early works better, and it costs less than doing it later. A lot has been done to strengthen early school efforts, but we haven't done well enough. This is what we see in the scope of special education and the high drop-out rate in secondary school, which is particularly high among students who have a weak professional background from primary school. Our starting point for strengthening early work is that qualified teachers are the key to a good school. Each student must meet from the day forward one of the teachers with the professional and pedagogical skills needed to adapt training to their prerequisites, interests and needs. The left has therefore worked to make demands for professional immersion in basic subjects in order to be able to teach them, to introduce five-year teacher training, and not least to strengthen the system of systematic further education for teachers in the school system and a level of competence for those who teach without recognised competence. According to the Training Act, municipalities have an obligation to make early efforts by following in particular the 1–4 pupils. steps with the weakest basic skills, including: through increased teacher density. But we need more qualified teachers to be able to increase their density. The SSB figures show that we can lack more than 11,000 teaching years in 2020. It is therefore important to work to recruit more teachers, to provide teachers with good work, so that they continue in the job, and that more teachers return to the profession. In the past, the Ministry presented a real science strategy and a read and write strategy in the autumn. These strategies are aimed not only at school but also at kindergartens. Most children go to kindergarten, and it allows even earlier efforts. The nursery is the place outside the family that has the most to say to create good conditions for the children. At the same time, too many kindergartens do not have enough pedagogical staff. The left therefore sees it as important for early efforts to strengthen the skills of kindergartens, through a continuing training gap for employees, just as we do in school. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is difficult for students to acquire knowledge of the subjects, to relate to physical or mental health, or problems in the home situation. It is therefore an important part of early efforts to strengthen school health services, which unfortunately have too little capacity in many places. We need a school health service that gives students who are struggling, a safe and competent adult to talk to when they need it. It will also be able to relieve teachers so that they can have more time for the professional follow-up of the individual student. We also see a special need for increased competence in mental health in school services in order to prevent it. A Young Data Survey shows that many young people suffer from mental illness in everyday life, despite the fact that most people thrive both at home and at school. Early efforts are also important here, including: through the school health service. I would also like to point out that a majority of the Committee believes that it is appropriate to consider a pooling of school health services and PP services, as these are too under-coordinated in their follow-up to children. The left believes that it is important that we have services that look at the whole child. Merging these services could lead to a more holistic follow-up at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e954	First day of school is special. Birthdays, holidays and loved ones come and go, but there is only one first day of school. Many children think it, I think it, parents like to think it even better than we who have experienced it. From this day forward and a decade forward, much will happen in and around the school. And there – in the classroom – his different young people gather with very different backgrounds, very different aspirations, with very different abilities and talents. It is this situation that must be the starting point for the ‘early effort’. Early effort must mean that one day a large resource is created where the goal is for everyone, regardless of social background and regardless of abilities, to have equal opportunities in school at the earliest possible time. The challenge we face on the first day of school is monumental and cannot be solved with simple magic grip alone. Yes, students should learn to read, write, calculate and speak a world language, but the way to do this is not the straight line. Students are required to have a custom setup, adapt their skills, needs, limitations and talent. It requires commitment and enthusiasm. For SV, this is an early effort on how the school as a whole is able to meet each individual student at the student's premises. First of all, it requires teachers to have time for the student. When the contact teacher has 30 students in the class, it goes without saying that it is almost impossible to adapt the arrangement to each individual student. Secondly, a school needs to see that life in the school is related to life outside the school. Many come to school without a meal package, many have parents who, for different reasons, are not as good at helping with their homework, many are very quiet at home in the evenings, and many have health challenges. All of this affects learning. Thus, SV has proposed a full-day school with a teacher’s norm where there should be a maximum of 15 elephants per teacher on the lowest steps, where the homework should be done primarily on the school, where there is more physical activity, scholastic food, a stronger school health service and a cheaper SFO with more culture and sport. It has encountered opposition from the government, primarily because it is ambitious, and it costs a lot of money, but in meeting the first day of school, I ask: can we afford to stay? Think about how it could prevent problems later in life. Think about what this could trigger by mastering and creating power. The Labour Party has two proposals. The first is SV agree – it's just about how we should be able to equip the school too early. The second is SV more skeptical. The challenge in Norwegian schools today is not primarily little specifically organised education for those with challenges, but simply too few teachers for ordinary education. This may indicate that as of today's date, the Labour Party has not taken a decision on the question of teacher's standards at school level. Otherwise, it was clear to me in this debate that we from the government are dealing with a relative – we can call it – schizophrenic relationship to at least two questions: the teacher's autonomy and the role of learning in custom training. The first – the autonomy of the teacher, a running exchange of opposite arguments, depending on whether a talk about national tests or local economy. The second is more temporal, depending on whether we're pre- or post-budget. Then there's a lot of learning density, and you can see that it's related to more custom training. When it comes to the Left, I'm a little surprised by the post from the representative Abrahamsen today, who stressed the meaning of multiple teachers, because that's exactly what the Left has not done in the setting, they have not supported the comment that there is a connection between multiple teachers and custom training. I hope that there will be a future school policy for the Left, that you may be able to stay at the same level as the others who have stood behind that note. Otherwise, I must say that the Left also demonstrates in this setting that they are not an independent force in education policy. They've once again focused on government policies, and I can't track the policies they're putting forward at national meetings and in other public contexts, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e980	Those who believe that the Left is not an independent force in school policy have obviously not met the representative Iselin Nybø or her party leader, Trine Skei Grande. They are independent at least – they have quite a lot of power, too, I have to say. This is not a discussion of whether or not early intervention is important; it is a discussion of how to do so. Then I think it's a pretty important point that putting forward a plan takes time, because you're going to draw up a plan, but a plan itself doesn't guarantee action. And as several representatives from the cooperation parties here have also underlined, it does very much in terms of early efforts, but a little about the background first. We agree that early action is important. We agree that it is the key to both mastering, good learning environment and good learning outcomes. Then we agree that the proportion of pupils with decisions on special education should be reduced. We agree that reducing the share of special education is positive if this comes as a result of more people getting adapted training and therefore receiving a good benefit from the regular training offer. So, fortunately, evolution no longer goes in the negative direction. From 2006 to the school year 2012–2013, we saw a marked increase in the scope of special education. The top came in 2012–2013, with 8.6 pst. The share has since slowly, but surely gone down, and then I stress that it is going slowly. Last school year, the proportion of pupils in special education was 8pst. This may give an indication that schools are now better able to provide students with a good and appropriate training within the ordinary range, such as: by doing the grip of Dovre Municipality and Skien Municipality, which is not otherwise governed by my party – to say it that way. Nevertheless, we know that there are considerable differences between municipalities, both in the use of special education, and in how proactive, how clear, how clear they are that students with different needs and students who fall away are to be followed up. And we know that there are still too many people who haven't acquired the basic skills they're going to have in the course of training. I think it's very good that this is going to be a big and important discussion: why don't everyone learn what they're going to learn at school? I therefore also agree that there is a need for new measures to ensure early action. So it's like the Storting decides how they're going to organize themselves, but I also have to stress in this context that the kindergarten is absolutely crucial. And it's worth listening to e.g. associated Dyslexia Norway, which says that one of the most important things is that children who are struggling with extra large language problems are discovered early, and that early action is being taken. This means, among other things: where necessary, so-called monitoring, i.e. simply proper tools, must be used to follow up the children. The main priority of the government and the cooperation party has been to ensure that both schools and teachers are even better able to both discover and follow-up students who need extra help. The tools are there today. The screening tests we have provide information about which students need extra help, and of course the schools also have an obligation to check more if there is something they are unsure about. Several of our actions are also concerned with early interventions, either directly or indirectly. The continuing training effort has been mentioned, of course, it is important. Among other things, some of that is the core — e.g. if a child’s teacher continues to be trained – that he can take a course, for example: teaching children and young people to break the reading code or teaching children and young people with a minority background in languages. It's important. The new real-life strategy addresses efforts towards better learning for children and young people towards kindergarten and initial training, just to start early. We have recently launched a strategy for language, reading and writing, where the main actions include: are online educational packages, network work in municipalities – things that we know work if used well. Who's it directed at? Early efforts are particularly targeted at boys, minority-speaking children and students with reading and writing difficulties. And then we're going to add up to 73 million. kr in the next year's budget for these strategies. In addition, through the budget agreement, the cooperation parties agree that in 2016 we will allocate SEK 480 million. kr to municipalities with a low teacher density of 1–4. steps. Overall, this represents a strong effort for early intervention. Is that enough? No, no, no. But are there good measures? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1000	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1003	The working party believes that it is not okay that students go through primary school without learning to read, write and calculate properly. That is why we fully agree. We are in favour of the proposed initiatives in kindergarten, continuing education and training, real-time vocational training strategies and read and write strategies. But we don't think that's enough. We want better follow-up and extra resources for those who are following. We'd have three billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government proposed, so that they could employ more teachers, in addition to 1 billion. kr for early effort during the period. Does the Council of State think that what he has proposed to date is sufficient for schoolchildren to break the reading code after the second year, or is it perhaps such that the Council of State does not share that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1012	As I also said in my post: Is this enough? No, no, no. You don't have to look at the long-term effects of this. If you look at e.g. national tests in grade 8 and the reading skills there, in the light of, for example: The asylum situation in Norway now shows: Of children who even migrated to Norway, more than half are at critically low levels in grade 8 reading. So you could say that some of them may have come to Norway late. Well, let's look at children born in Norway who have a minority background. Among them it's over 40 pst. Among Norwegian-Norwegian children, i.e. children with a majority background, the number is slightly above 20 pst. Are we going to be able to solve this for 1-2-3 with the measures I've outlined? No, we don't. Therefore, with the support of the cooperation parties at Stortinget, the government is going to work more on several measures, including early action. I share the Workers' Party's intention, namely that more municipalities have to do more. I'm probably a little skeptical about the exact way it's put up here, it's the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1023	The Council of State mentioned in its statement, and to this extent also now, that he would not vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, but imagines several new measures in the future because – it was clear in his reply to me now – what has been proposed to date is not sufficient. What new measures are the Councils of State thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1028	Let me first just say that even though I share the intention of the Workers' Party, that's what the Workers' Party is asking for, a plan. I believe that instead we should let early efforts permeate all the matters we put forward. I have also explained in my article how both the government and the cooperation parties always think about early efforts in what we are putting forward. I believe that, even with these measures, there may be reason to ask the question: Why do students go through years in Norwegian school without getting the education they need to learn to read and write properly? Do I mean and do I think we're going to end this next year or the year after, with our read and write strategy? No, no, no. I am also not a stranger because we can discuss whether we should make greater demands on the municipalities and have better follow-up. I have also previously announced that I believe we should look at the entire state support apparatus – to see if we are spending too much time on schools that are good, and should spend more time on those schools that need extra help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1037	A simple question for the Minister of Knowledge: In the budget agreement, more teachers were put in schools where there is a low level of learning. Does the Council believe that it will have any effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1042	Now I'm going to give an answer that I'm absolutely sure the representative of Knag County will appreciate, that we're going to find out, through systematic research on how to use increased teaching resources in a way that gives the students the best education, i.e. more knowledge again. Then we've had the discussion several times in the past about whether higher teacher density itself is decisive. I would say that the most important thing is how to use increased teaching resources. You use it, for example. to have two students in all classes on average, or to put in extra education and extra follow-up and support for those students who need it the most? SV has chosen one solution, because SV has chosen to be the most concerned about the average size of the classes. I believe that the most important thing to put in extra resources is to use them on those students who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1051	SV says that if you have fewer elephants per teacher, you can really give the teachers the freedom to adapt the teaching to each individual. That's our whole point. And then there's a tool to make sure that there's fewer possible elephants per learner, to establish a national norm, which Røe Isaksen has previously opposed because one doesn't believe anything about the effect of this. Nevertheless, one then accepted that there would be considerably more teachers through the budgetary conciliation, where the Christian People's Party got through its case. I noticed that in the great teacher's uprising, Father Isaacen, the father of the Council of State, who is a teacher in the school, was very eager to follow – as most teachers actually are – that one should get more teachers because it will have an effect. So the question is, now we're going into a new budget debate. One should follow-up, multi-teacher experiments should be followed. Does this prevent even more teachers from coming into this budgetary agreement because we have to wait for the research to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1060	My father, who is also Carl Magne Isaksen, has many opinions. It is absolutely right that my father, the high school teacher, believes that we also need more teachers, and that smaller classes are important. But luckily, I'm old enough to decide for myself, so I don't have to do everything my parents say anymore. There are many interesting approaches in this discussion, and as the Christian People's Party has repeatedly pointed out, there are also things that indicate that if we put in teacher resources early, it may have an effect on the very weakest students. But the paradox here is that it's not that we see that in those municipalities and in those schools that have the least classes, the students learn the most. Rather, on the contrary, we see that the schools and the municipalities that struggle most with their school results are also the least classed. I'm not going to mention the counties by name here, but I'm going to go through the counties in Norway and see which counties, which municipalities, which are the most students under critical limit in reading, writing and mathematics. It's not the big city councils that have the biggest classes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1072	The Council of State is also the Minister of Research and is responsible for research, and these efforts should be followed. I think it's a good tradition that all the attempts are followed. What is often researched is that if the field, i.e. the sources of research – in this case the teachers – thinks something quite different from what the quantitative data has come up to, then the researchers often use to say that we have problems with our data. For the sources, there's always a great deal of trust, so if there's a big difference between what they're on the floor, what they're thinking is reality -- what they're thinking on the floor is important to move the school forward -- and what the quantitative meta research shows has a problem. But it seems to me that the state council here is completely in line with the quantitative data, despite the fact that the great, wide majority of teachers actually think that the most important measure you can take for the time being is more teachers. So my question is, has the Council of State ever moved in any way because the field here is so unisonable for more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1082	My message is really the same as I think the Workers' Party in itself is also very well worded in its proposal for a representative, namely that the system is more important than the number. Providing resources is in itself no guarantee that all these students will be caught. If that's the case, then the country in the world that spends the most money in school should also be ready to capture the vast majority of students. If it was that we could only add more resources, and with it capture all of these students, it should be that the municipalities in Norway that spend the most money per student also have less than the critical limit in reading and writing. Is that so? No, it's not. So that doesn't mean that it can't be a good idea to give resources to the school. So let's do that. We also provide money for example. freeing the teacher to spend more time on e.g. initial math and billing training. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have spent more money on teaching positions at school. All of this is a good idea, but the belief that if you just add the resources, the results will follow – that's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1089	There's quite a few of us. There's no simple solution to this. But the number of teachers has a lot to say. It has also admitted itself to the Council of State. In a debate with Trond Giske earlier in the fall, the minister said that 30 elephants per teacher was too much. So my question is, what is the optimal amount of elephants, because 30 is too much? Is it 29, is it 28, is it 27? What is the state council that has come up with when he has concluded that 30 is too much?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1096	Now, the representative Knag Fylkesnes wasn't on the Stortinget that time. Neither did I. But the SV and the Right agreed at the time that you should not have a fixed class division number. It's possible SV has gone away from it, but it was SV's voices that secured Kristin Clemet and the Bondevik II government majority for it. And then I just have to ask questions about the basic premise here, because if you have 19 students, second-graders, in a class today -- SV wants 15 as the maximum limit -- we're going to think it's okay that the students don't get what they're going to get, that they don't get extra follow-up if they're critically low on the screening tests in reading, for example.? Is it then that we should sit and wait until we have 15 students per class on average? The reason why no more of these students are picked up is that too many municipalities simply don't have a good enough system for it. The teachers are definitely saying something. The teachers know who it is. But the municipalities, the school owners, don't have a good enough system for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1105	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1110	I had not expected the representative of Knag Fylkesnes and the Council of State to agree on the teaching density, but I had hoped that we could agree on the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted. Because what our proposal really is about is to make sure that something happens, which we know works, but as it turns out, it's a little clockwise to get to out there. We as magnification must take overall responsibility for ensuring that the municipalities have the necessary tools and systems that the Council of State is talking about, and not least the resources that are needed to take the necessary action. We want a practice that closes some of the gaps that exist today, systems that ensure students' learning, a signal from this hall that it is not possible for a student to go through the entire elementary school without acquiring the basic skills. The changes in laws have been made in many ways, but we see from all the statistics that that's not enough. We have to make sure that those changes actually happen. Too many resources are used for firefighting at the end rather than prevention at the start. What we're asking for is that there's a whole case where you go through just these things, where the goal is to make sure that we do what we can to make schoolchildren learn to read and write before the end of the second grade, where we use the results of the second year stage screening tests, where we use the results of the tests that identify the students who need follow-up. We know that on those samples there are about 20 pst. of all the students who need the extra follow-up. We have to make sure they get it. The responsibility for that follow-up is often added to the individual teacher, without giving the teacher additional resources or more specialised competence. That's what this is about. We will have increased bets on early efforts, getting better follow-up of children who are struggling. It is the purpose of the Labour Party with the proposals – so simple and so difficult. It's about giving teachers better opportunities to help their children achieve their goals. There'll be limits to how hard someone in this room is trying to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1119	I feel the need to just comment on the line change between the Council of State and the representative of Knag Fylkesnes. There was a discussion about reintroducing the class division number, but I don't think anyone has arranged to reintroduce the class division number as it was. The Christian People's Party has not proposed it. What we have proposed is a national norm for maximum average group size at school level, and it's not the same. Because we know that just increasing the teacher's density, just reducing the group size, doesn't necessarily have an effect on itself. What we need is a flexibility in school to be able to put in the effort where it's needed. In order to achieve that, we depend on enough teaching resources, and therefore we need a standard of resource allocation to the school. I am very excited about what the Workers' Party, who is the proposer in this matter, really believes about it. Finally, I must say that I agree with the Council of State that what we need now is not primarily a plan. What we need is a consciousness and a willingness to bet, because I think we really know what it is that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1140	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Kristin Vinje – for the rapporteur on the matter, Kent Gudmundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1149	I would like to thank Mr Gudmundsen, on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, for the Committee's cooperation in the consideration of the proposal for a representative on the introduction of free school meals in primary school. Children’s and young people’s health is an important topic, and the whole committee considers it central that children establish good dietary habits early in life. So it is important that society stimulates a healthier diet. There is no doubt that the school meal has an important function in addition to the purely nutritional one, it also has a social function and contributes to health, well-being and learning. The Committee supports the efforts of municipalities to organise good school meals and looks forward to the government's review of support schemes to improve the school meal framework. This, together with the experience of several schools and municipalities that have started different meal arrangements, with different forms of funding, will provide a better basis for setting up a better framework. The Health Directorate makes recommendations for the school meal based on the provision of food packages, milk and fruit or green, and at least 20 minutes of meal time. The public health report – Mestring and opportunities – which was discussed here in spring 2015 underlines the importance of following up the recommendations of the authorities in the school in a 20-minute meal. Today there are separate arrangements for milk and fruit and vegetables. School milk is subsidized by the turnover tax and the school fruit subscription scheme is subsidized by the Ministry of Health and Health. So far, the offer is not well implemented, as it was only 11 pst in the autumn of 2014. by all students, and only 4 pst. between 8 and 10. steps, as used by the scheme. School milk has a digestion of about 50 pst. by students, but participation falls from childhood to childhood. In schools that only have childhood, there are only 10 pst. But there are great regional differences. The Government and Minister of Health Bent Höie have announced that they should consider the options for alternative use of the funds for school fruit, while at the same time they should be seen in the context of other resources in the field of food that can be used towards the school area in order to have a better impact. I would like to link some comments to the matter that justifies the Right View. There has been no tradition of serving food in Norwegian school, which means that we have built, for example. which is not necessarily designed or dimensioned to expand the supply of school food. What it will mean to adapt this, and what costs it will entail, depends on the type of food you need and what equipment you need to make and serve the food. A calculation by the Ministry of Finance estimates that it will cost about 3.6 billion. to provide school food to all students at all stages. Other and previous estimates have estimated that serving e.g. A bread meal, which is even lubricated by the students at the schools, will cost about €1.76 a.m. kr. Such service provision and joint preparation will also require approval from different supervisors, such as the Food Safety Authority, and the review of infection control, etc., which will entail additional costs. There are many good examples of school owners who in various ways facilitate good eating habits at school and who in different ways follow the recommendations of the Health Directorate. This may range from awareness campaigns to parents and students on the importance of including healthy-content food packages to introducing different food-serving schemes in the school owner’s own direction. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, agree to give priority to measures to enhance the quality of education through early school efforts and to enhance the competence of teachers and school leaders higher than the introduction of a free school meal in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1172	It is an important debate that has taken place with this draft representative, which addresses several interesting issues. It's about increasing efforts for increased learning outcomes, it's about public health, and it's about social cohesion. We have had a free system of fruit and vegetables in the school that has produced good results. The result of that scheme is an important part of the basis for why the Workers' Party wants a school food scheme, and it shows why a school food scheme is an important public health measure. According to the Nordic Council of Ministers, studies have shown that through the free school fruit scheme, we see long-term effects that show greater consumption of fruit and vegetables, and in parts of the country we have been able to increase the consumption of all groups of pupils, regardless of social status. The consumption of fruit and green and healthy food has a positive effect on people's health, and it also has a socially equalizing effect. We know that establishing good health habits early in life has a major impact on the ability to succeed in school and in the workplace. The working party believes that the health benefits that can be derived from a national scheme of healthy foods that everyone is allowed to take part in are well documented. It shows the school fruit system. Research from the University of Agder has shown that students who get fruit and green at school eat less sweets. It is the greatest change among those who used to be major consumers of sweets. Free school fruit provides lasting increased intake of fruit and vegetables in children and young people. Students establish healthier habits that they take with them in life. Students who have received free school fruit are reported to be less overweight eight years after being in the scheme than students who did not receive the same offer. We in the Workers' Party would like the free school fruit scheme to continue to exist, but we also believe that the results we have seen from the scheme, together with available research at organized school meals, show that it is time to go even further. Several research projects from, among others: Trøndelag Research and Development, Nordic Council, SINTEF etc. points to the different positive effects of an organized meal during school days. Food in school has both nutritional and social benefits. In addition, it seems to have a positive effect on learning. Hedmark researcher Lars Lien found in his doctoral thesis the link between the character level and the intake of breakfast. In his study in Oslo, he found that students who do not eat lunch have twice as much chance of poor grades as students who eat lunch daily. So it can be difficult to say for sure whether poor nutrition yields poor results and good nutrition yields good results, or whether this is related to other social factors that also determine school outcomes. In this context, it is interesting that social inequality research communities point out that food in school will be an important contribution to social differences in health. Organized school food could have direct positive consequences for school outcomes, but it can primarily make an important contribution to balancing some of the social differences that also affect both health and school outcomes. An organised school programme will primarily be an important public health measure, but with more positive effects. This is why the Labour Party believes that a school food system that embraces everyone will have great social benefits. There are many schools that have already introduced different types of good performance schemes. An evaluation of a breakfast project in the municipality of Buskerud shows an increase of 42 pst. for the number of people who eat lunch every school day. 22 pst. school lunches have generally led to healthier eating and more frequent eating. Such projects can be seen in schools all over the country. Those with daily responsibility for learning outcomes, school results and the everyday lives of students view school food as a useful and effective measure. These experiments around us also show that there may be many ways to solve a school programme. The Labour Party sees a simple scheme offered to students during the school day under the direction of the school, or in cooperation with others. But it is important that there must be a high degree of freedom for the municipalities and schools to make provision for school food in a way that suits the individual school. Whether it should happen before school day or during school day should be up to the individual school or school owner. There may be different needs, and these conditions are best felt locally. In view of this, the Labour Party wishes to ask the government to present a case on how we can introduce a school meal offer in primary school, funded and justified as a public health measure. Such a case must point to different options for funding, organising and arranging school meals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1191	The representative Lasse Juliusen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1194	Let me first of all say that the Progress Party is concerned with children and young people's health, and we believe that healthy and nutritious school food is important for the students. At the same time, we believe that it is the responsibility of the parents to do this. The Progress Party supports the government’s efforts to set sufficient time for school meals as well as the investigation of organising and financing meals according to local circumstances. But the schools, in cooperation with their parents, will decide if they want school food. The study published by the Norwegian Research Council in 2012 shows that by far the majority, 86 pst. by the students, have with them healthy school food from home. At the same time, it is worrying if the 14 pst. who respond that they do not have food from home, go without food during the school day. Therefore, it is important that schools and homes cooperate and point to the importance of bringing school food. There are a number of schools today that offer students school food for cheap money. For example, at the Varhaug School at Stavanger they have served school food for five years. It costs NOK 8 per day and NOK 608 in the semester, according to the school's website. It is in stark contrast to the amount involved in the proposal in this case. A national free school meal system will entail significant investment and operational costs, while Norway faces enormous challenges. Public expenditure is falling due to an exceptional situation with a record stream of asylum seekers and migrants. Of course, this will also put its mark on schools and kindergartens in the short term. Capacity needs to be greatly expanded, and it will cost a lot. At the same time, government revenue decreases due to low oil prices. These include: In the light of this, we have to look at the SV's proposal on so-called free school food. At school, priority must be given to teachers, equipment upgrades and school constructions. This is complicated and resource-intensive, both human and financial. For the Progress Party, many measures should be taken at school, which are significantly more important to put in place than school food funded by the public. In difficult times, it must be given priority. The priorities of the Progress Party are clear: we want to give priority to learning promotions in basic training, teacher mobility, real-time education and literacy. The challenges facing Norwegian school are not solved by imposing additional burdens on taxpayers to pay for food at school, but by focusing on quality, follow-up and good teachers. The progress party believes that it is the responsibility of the parents to ensure that the students have food at school. We're sceptical that the public is taking on more and more tasks. The Progress Party is a liberalist party which actually wants to limit the role of the public. Our main objective is a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention. It also follows that the Progress Party is critical of ‘free’ school food. SV's well-intentioned proposals are expensive to implement. But I think it is also serious that it is a proposal with clear elements of coercion. Parents and children are to be forced on enough public order – someone outside of us is to assume responsibility and ‘force’ us more equality. The price we pay is reduced freedom to live our lives the way we want, and weakened personal responsibility, because the state assumes more and more of the responsibility for our lives. And if we don't have responsibility, the incentives to take responsibility are also weakened. The Progress Party believes that it could easily distort resource use in Norway: we should spend more resources on children who actually need help, and not waste public money on the large and largely functioning majority who are able to send their food with their children both to kindergarten and to school. The party of progress believes that ‘free’ food in the school is both unnecessary, expensive for the public and less accurate. The Progress Party prioritises enhanced school content and believes that it is the most important measure for social cohesion among students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1220	Food is important, and a healthy and good diet is necessary in order to work well in everyday life. This also applies to school students. We know a lot about how many students eat during the school day, and we also know a lot about what they actually eat. In the report ‘What do students eat at school?’, published by the Norwegian Research Council in 2012, the diet of over 15 000 students has been surveyed. 86 pst. Of the students, we bring food packages from home, if we look at primary school, secondary school and secondary school as a whole. In primary school, the proportion is even higher. There it varies from 88 pst. to 100 pst. Most people eat bread, rolls, or broken bread, and meat imposeds, white cheese and liver possum are the most common. So most people eat during school day, and they eat normal food. But then it's worrying that 14 pst. They don't bring food packages, and we probably have to assume that some of these don't eat during the school day. And then the proposal for a free school meal becomes interesting. But the proposal raises some issues at the same time. One is, of course, the practical challenges and the price tag of introducing such an offer. Previous estimates from the Department show that introducing a single bread meal where the students lubricate the food themselves will cost at least €1.75 billion. kr in the year, and then costs related to facilitating construction and premises are not included in the calculation. So the simplest form of a free school meal is going to cost billions, and the result is that most people will eat about the same thing at school as they do today: bread with provisions. The price of maybe getting the last students to eat bread with a tray is going to be very high. But maybe there are other ways to help these students, and then we're going into another issue that this proposal raises: who is going to be responsible for the children's feeding during the school day? Is it the responsibility of parents, or is it the responsibility of the State or the municipality? I believe that it must initially be the responsibility of the parents. That doesn't mean we're not going to do anything to help the kids who don't bring food packages, but maybe we can help them in other ways. I think the most important thing we can do is to strengthen cooperation between school and home and get parents on the track. Maybe it's better to make parents aware of their responsibilities than to solve the problem by assuming responsibility. For example, I was supposed to. wish me a trial with school/home coordinators, who could have had a special responsibility to follow up the parents who are not following their children at school. Then we could get them more on the field, and maybe they started not only sending food packages with the children, but also started engaging in children's homework and attending parents' conversations and parents' meetings, etc. The last issue I want to point to is also about resources. Because by introducing a school meal into the school, we impose another task on the employees of the school. If there's something Norwegian school doesn't need, there's another time thief who steals the time that the teacher needs for education and preparation. I want to repeat that it is important that school students eat and drink during school everyday life, and it is worrying that 14 pst. by the students, they don't bring food at school. I am pleased with the follow-up to the Public Health Communication that is now being done, and the job done to collect information on how to finance and organise school meals around the country. I am absolutely sure that there are both good ideas and experiences in many places in Norway on which it is possible to build further. I am also pleased with the cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Health and the Ministry of Knowledge to help more schools follow the guidelines of the Health Directorate, among others. by setting aside at least 20 minutes to a school meal. But the Christian People's Party will not vote for the proposal to introduce a free school meal to all students. We believe that we need to invest in other measures to make sure that all children eat properly, and we believe that there are other measures and efforts within the school that it is more important to prioritise now than free food for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1239	"Man doesn't live by bread alone," it says. That's right enough, because both care, friendship, culture and knowledge are essential ingredients in a person's life, ingredients that the school contributes to giving students from their beginnings as six-year-olds and leaving the school run – every day. But the bread – the food – is, as everyone knows, an important fuel for keeping the concentration at the top of the school day and for the best possible benefit from teaching. There is no need for a teacher or researcher to understand. Nevertheless, there is an input into the school day where the responsibility is completely privatised and added to the home. Although the vast majority of students have breakfast at home, lunch in the bag or buy food in the school canteen, it is a fact that there are many empty stomachs in a classroom in the first hour. When, in addition, many elephants forget to bring food packages from home and instead fill them with empty calories from the store in large quantities, the consequence is that many brains go on sparebluss across the school day. The centre party has for many years been in charge of a simple, free school meal for all the elephants – mainly as a public health measure, but also because we believe it is important for the school performance of the elephants. Research, including: from the Nord-Trøndelag experiment mentioned in the setting, there is a positive connection between the school mat, the level of energy of the elephants through the school day and the well-being of the school. In addition, I am overconfident that saturated stomachs and proper blood sugar levels can also prevent conflicts and bullying. The school meal and the school meal are not just about what kind of food the students eat. Many elephants take up the problem that they don't have much time to eat. The lunch break is short, and the time for the students to sit down to eat is too short for the meal to be quiet. Half-packs go in garbage, and half-empty stomachs start on the next increase – no good frame around the meal and no recipe on either matted or good eating habits. First floor is because the school organizes the school day so that the students get the necessary time and place to sit and eat the food. The center part is also concerned that many new schools are being built without the school kitchen and canteens, and that the old school kitchen is being laid down. In our busy family time, is it perhaps so that we need the school kitchen more than ever? Sculpture is not about prioritizing between teachers and bananas, so the right-hand side tries to represent it when looking for arguments to say no to the obvious. It is about doing preventive health work instead of repairing when diet-related diseases occur in life. For the Centre Party, the introduction of free school food for all elephants is primarily a health reform. There is also a strong link between health and education. Healthy choices and habits must be learned early in life. Through the school, children and young people can be affected both through training and through practical measures. The ball reaches all children and young people, and is therefore a unique arena to contribute to social smoothing and health. The central party believes that the introduction of free school meals for all the elephants does not have to mean a billion bet in the state budget. Several examples from municipalities around the country – which have also been mentioned here before – show that much can be done with small funds. The centre party will begin the scholastic reform with arrangements to be applied for by the municipalities on behalf of their schools. As we write in the setting, the Center Party believes it is necessary to give the municipalities freedom to find good and practical solutions in this work. And as I said, here's the good example and experience of extracting lessons and inspiration from schools that are already in the process. It is a paradox that this government is starting its reign by prioritizing billions of tax credits and at the same time balancing the budget by raping the apple and oranges from the students by abolishing the school fruit regime in the world's richest country. The offer for a free school meal is in this context for small-time meals to be calculated. The question the government should ask is whether we can afford to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1260	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1263	That's what the representative, Mr. Knag County, will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1268	The proposal to introduce a free school meal, which we are discussing today, is primarily justified as a public health measure. The diet affects our health, and eating habits early in life provide the basis for dietary habits later in life. It is therefore positive that most students bring healthy food packages from home, while worrying that not everyone has it and thus does not get food during the school day. This is why targeted action is important in order to reach those students who need it the most. In dealing with the public health communication, a unanimous increase in the government called for a comprehensive action plan with concrete measures to promote healthy diets throughout the population. In this plan, dietary habits among children and young people and school foods will have to be an important theme. Otherwise, the State is working with various measures relating to the follow-up to the public health notification, as indicated in the referral to the case. As of today, parents are responsible for the children’s bringing food to school. Strengthening cooperation between school and home on school meals, as recommended by the Health Directorate, could help to make parents aware of their responsibilities. Local authorities and schools have room for action to introduce their own supply of school food, as has been done by several schools. They also have room for action to organise the school day, among others. with longer breaks, so that students have enough time to eat. In this context, the Health Directorate has made clear recommendations to municipalities and schools on how to organise the school meal and what should be offered. In particular, it is recommended that students should have sufficient time for the meal so that everyone can eat at ease and until they are saturated. Free school food for all students could cost between 1.76 billion. kr and 3,6 brd. kr, depending on how it is added up. Proposals have shown that this action will also have a positive learning effect. This is therefore a matter of prioritisation of resources. We in the Left are clear that the teacher is the most important thing for students' learning. So our main priority is to ensure a lot of qualified teachers in school. In particular, we will strengthen the system of systematic further education for teachers in the school system and have a level of competence for those who teach without recognised competence. The fact that students from one day to the next meet teachers with good competence is essential for the success of their training and thus for their future opportunities in the labour market. There is a link between health and education, occupation and income. Thus, investing in the teacher will also help to balance social differences in terms of health. From a public health perspective, the cost of free school food could alternatively have been spent on other measures against children and young people in the health budget. This is therefore once again a matter of priority. We regard this as important in early public health work by focusing more on prevention of children and their families as early as possible. These include measures to strengthen maternity care, health centres, school health services, the quality of kindergartens and family protection, which we believe will be an important contribution to promoting public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1286	A few months ago, I was at Hauptgården Secondary School in Heggedal, Asker. It was really a nice experience, and I recommend all a visit there. There's a school that experienced that 9 pst in 2007. By the students, they were bullied. The ball was well below the national average on school scores, and there was a great deal of dissatisfaction among the students. From 2007 to today, they have gone through a huge change. What they did was they put the shell on the center to make a change. Sculpture became a basic element of school life. All the students are offered scholastic food. They have breakfast, they have lunch, and they used the food as a torque to change the school. Today, they are far below average when it comes to bullying, they are above average when it comes to school results, and they are among the schools in the country where the students enjoy all the best. The whole idea they've created for this work -- a holistic vision of knowledge where the brain is not alone, where activity, culture, food, learning, everything, interlocking, has been shown to produce enormous results. Most, we know, a breakfast, but not all. Most people also bring food packages, but not all. There is a growing problem in Norway that there are major social health differences. Let's ask the question first, is school an important public health arena? I think the whole Big One will be able to stand behind. It would be absurd to exclude the school as an important arena for people's well-being. Perhaps the question is more fundamental: does one as a state, as a society, have a responsibility for the health of the children when they are in school? We know that misnutrition, overweight and concentration problems are an increasing problem. We know about the research at the HEMIL Center in Bergen, which has concluded that scalding increases the concentration and performance of students. The Health Directorate recommends free milk, fruit and green on a professional basis as something that is positive for people at both individual and community level. So this is both a public health measure and a learning action in one sense. The last two decades have expanded school day, and there has been less time for food. Slicing day has become more densely packed. Adjusting this school day by having a break in the middle of the day, with a school meal, makes sense. It will create a social arena and at the same time contribute to both public health and learning. We know many countries that have introduced school meals. Finland and Sweden have long and good traditions for this. When a plural chooses not to go further with the idea and the idea of a school meal, it is often based on the principle and the economic. The principle is that this is their parents' responsibility, and that one of the information campaigns might make parents take responsibility. I doubt that very much. I should like to see the public health campaign that only with information led to the sudden reduction of social differences in the country. The principle is perhaps even more important in dealing with the pragmatic. We know that this will cost society enormously over time. Even those who think that in principle it's problematic that the school should provide free school food may be able to see the socio-economic account of this, where society will come in plus by getting a few less follow-up problems that result from poor eating habits. When it's economic, just to put it a little bit in perspective here, there's some groups in society that don't have to shout particularly high, and the billions are coming running after them. Those who already have a lot can get a lot of taxes. If one had only used a very small part of this, a little bit of moderation had been shown, an introduced school meal could be 13 times with the tax credits that this government has given during the two years they have spent in government. The priority discussion is strong in the school sector for this government, but when it comes to tax cuts, which are not very accurate, it is not about priority – it is about to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1301	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1304	The representative will list the suggestions referred to in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1309	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1312	Sunn food is important, and as the representative of Knag Fylkesnes also mentioned, many municipalities and many schools in Norway have very good experience in having school food, whether it is a simple bread meal, whether they have a scheme for everyone – whether they have students who do it, or whether they have other staff who do it – or whether they have some bread slices available to those who have forgotten to eat. Many schools also work well with the combination of physical activity and awareness of diet. But that is not what this matter is about. This issue is whether we should give priority to having a national system of what is called free school meals, that is, the use of our common resources, our tax money, to prioritize a school meal for everyone. If you're just going to start with bread, it'll probably cost about $1.7 billion. kr. Instead, the government believes that the most important public health measures in school, what we're going to spend most of our money on, are other things, for example. mental health of children and young people. At the same time, we are committed to stimulating a healthier diet and supporting the efforts of municipalities at good school meals. The school meal, as mentioned here, also has an important social function. There is no doubt that both gathering, taking it easy and eating healthy food is important for both health, well-being and learning. For this reason, the Health Directorate also recommends that all students have food packages, and they recommend that arrangements be made for milk and fruit or green. Then there has also been a recommendation that it is set by at least 20 minutes to the school meal. New guidelines for the school meal were launched in autumn. This is a good basis for schools to continue working with children and the diet of young people. There are many ways to organise and finance meals based on local circumstances. At the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity, they collect examples from schools that have established different food systems. It is also to be made available gradually, so that different schools can learn from it. A study of meals and food arrangements has been started at school under the direction of the Ministry of Health and Welfare in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Knowledge. Among other things, there are: look at how to strengthen school meals through cooperation between public, voluntary and business. It is then assumed that the government believes that the school meal is primarily the responsibility of parents, while the school can — and should — facilitate various meals and encourage healthy diets. At the same time, we must have solutions that are both practical and economically sustainable in the long term. We also need to look at today's arrangements. It is granted annually approx. Thirty-five million. kr over the state budget of the school fruit subscription scheme. We're going to look into the alternative use of these funds if we can get more public health back. The school milk subscription scheme is operated by Tine and is subsidized by the sales tax. That's about $30 million. kr annually used. For example, coordinating these arrangements may be an option. As I said, it will have a significant cost to introduce tax-funded food serving for everyone in school. Just serving a single bread meal has a cost of about $1.75 a.m. kr. If you were to serve hot food, for example. salmon, the price will be much higher. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Committee just points out that a national scheme takes little account of local priorities and opportunities or of the background of pupils and parents. Furthermore, it will lead to significant investment and operating costs, a little depending on how to plan the plan. The majority of the Committee also emphasises that it is more appropriate and important in today’s school to give priority to measures to strengthen school-home co-operation, to increase the quality of education, to early efforts and to give teachers more time for each student. This government has a broad commitment to creating a good learning environment in school. A good diet and good eating habits are part of this whole thing. But that doesn't mean we have to go for a national system that costs a lot and is to be managed by the Stortinget or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1336	The Council of State has repeatedly expressed its concern that the school should contribute to social cohesion. Today, health may be the area where we are most clearly seeing the impact of social differences. Health is important for both school performance and implementation — and thus long-term work opportunities. Several research communities point to school food as an important contribution to the prevention of social differences, which also have a positive ringing effect on pupils’ performance. Does the Council of State feel that the health of students is not important for learning well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1341	The health of students is crucial for learning well — both mental health and physical health. I think just the description of reality given by the representative suggests that we should not start with a proposal for a national regime that will cover everyone. Rather, it is a very good argument that the municipalities themselves should assess whether they have schools in, let's call it, congested areas – where they know that very many students do not get food from home, where they know that there may be little knowledge about good nutrition among parents – and about those who are going to put in a reinforced effort. I want to be very much for that. I think the representative Knag Fylkesnes gave a good example from a school in Asker, I guess. Very familiar is that municipality still civilly ruled, to say the least. That's the angle of incidence I think is the best. Then the state must have a support apparatus and support system for this and contribute to the dissemination of good examples. But I don't think a national system for everyone is the right solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1348	At least we have an agreement that good health is important for school performance. When we see the good effects of the free school fruit scheme as it was available to everyone, looking at the use of the current subscription scheme, does the Council not believe that a common school meal scheme would have a positive health effect for Norwegian students?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1353	Evaluation of the school fruit scheme shows that the students ate more fruit, and that's good. I was about to say, it would only be missing when you spent so many tens of millions, yes, over a hundred million dollars on giving free fruit to the students. So the question is, what is the most important priority in school? I don't think it's like the schools have left or should waste school food and good physical and mental health. But I think it is even more important that we have strengthened the school health service, that we strengthen the health stations around the municipalities, that we give the municipalities funds for more health-sistering positions. I think it is even more important that we give priority to reading and writing, especially with early efforts, that we give priority to getting the real-time results up, that we give priority to continuing training of teachers. It's also been the main priorities of this government. We were more concerned about it than having a school fruit scheme. There we disagreed with the red-green majority, and I guess that's just to say, really.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1360	The sphere is a national system that embraces everyone initially. My question is of a more fundamental nature. We are some of the people that the school is an important public health arena. We're certain that the school has a role to play in promoting public health for students. But a set of some kind of separation with food, it shouldn't be within the principle limit. One has physical activity, it's based on public health – it's important to keep children and young people active, because it's good for health. One has its own schooling service to care for children and young people if they have different health problems or need follow-up, vaccine, etc. The school takes responsibility for public health – but not for food. There is a divine divorce that one has not been able to find in neighboring countries like Finland, which is civilized, or Sweden, which has long been civilized. My question to the Council of State is, what's going on with the school food that makes it out of the mainstream?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1366	At least that's not a theological justification. This is not manna from heaven, for this is what it must be paid for. So I just think the rationale is more practical. Sometimes SV mentions that something has an economic reason, as if it was the worst thing in the world that one had to give priority to politics. We saw a little less of it after it was eight years of red-green government, where there were no tax cuts. Then, apparently, school food could be introduced 13 times or 26 times or what it was supposed to be, without therefore coming to school food for that reason. But the reason is simply that I think other bets are more important in school. So I think we can get both better public health and better diet again with simpler and more reasonable tools than having a tax-funded meal for everyone. That being said, I believe that the most important reason for physical activity in school is not public health, but that it is healthy for the students to move during the school day, because then they learn more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1373	You can have more thoughts in your head at once – that's quite possible – maybe even three-four thoughts. Who knows how much your brain can do with enough food in your body. I think it was a pretty honest answer: So the government won't do this. One sees that it can be tricked and good for people's health and learning, but one won't give priority to it. That's what might be strange about this government, that one implements extensive cuts in wealth taxes, as it is an autostrate of economists who say that one cannot demonstrate the positive effect of when it comes to the growth and development of this society. But this measure, which is infinitely cheaper, which is pointed out by the Health Directorate and researchers in a row, and which other countries with significantly poorer economies and with a much more needy room for priority, has managed to achieve. But the rest of us just have to wait for a divine recognition from the state council and others, and then introduce a schoolmate in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1380	I'm not very good at it – as you might hear – but I try as well as I can't talk too much about what was going on in the previous years, under the previous government. It's a little paradoxical when the Socialist Left criticises the government for not prioritizing anything we never promised to prioritize. In addition, I believe that the reduction in the taxes on wealth makes sense for Norwegian ownership. Workplaces are also important for people who have children at school and others. In the last eight years, there was no cut in the wealth tax, to put it mildly. In that case, it was rather an increase in the taxation of Norwegian owners who own Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. What came out of it? Then you had eight years where you could prioritize this, if it was so important. SV had made the choice to promise a hot meal to all children in school. What came out of it was a banana. It was maybe even cold instead of space-temperate, which is how it should be when it's very best. So we don't prioritize anything that we didn't promise to prioritize, I think it's funny to get criticism for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1387	Last question, so that we don't drag this too much out of time: what did we get, what did we get as a society for it, and what was the big benefit of removing the fruit and vegetable regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1392	The main reason for removing the fruit and vegetables system was that I thought other priorities in school were more important. There is nothing to suggest that there was a significant health benefit from the fruit and vegetables scheme. It cost a lot of money, and I believe that that money should be spent – as we have done – on teachers, school, content and knowledge. It was the most important thing. We still have the means to give the children green, fruit and milk. Schools and municipalities that believe that this is important – and I think that the municipalities should consider as part of a comprehensive school policy – have the opportunity to prioritize it. Just that municipalities do it – I myself have visited many schools that have introduced e.g. a small breakfast meal sometimes a week – shows that it works well. I think we can do even more by spreading good examples and arranging and using the government's instruments well enough, but using $1.7 billion. kr on bread for all Norwegian students I think is crazy priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1399	In the priority world to the Right, billions of people are immediately waving about tax cuts, but once a billions of them are in school, it's all of a sudden too much, too much. It reminds me of George Orwell's statement from Animal Farm that some animals are more like than others. Source is at least not part of the top category there. The speech says very clearly: There have been considerably fewer elephants that get fruit and green today – considerably fewer. And it depends on a local economy that is – to say it very simply – challenging in the situation Norway is today. So removing the fruit and vegetable regime has made it available to fewer elephants. So we're not talking about an initiative here. A talk about a partial phase-out of the whole system. It surprises me if this is true: has there really been no positive health effect of the fruit and vegetable regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1408	It's clear that it's healthy to eat fruit. There's no doubt about it, but if you're the most concerned about what the students are learning at school and the knowledge at school, I think there's better use of $150 million. kr or something like that -- I don't remember the exact number -- rather than using it on fruit. I also believe that another thing that puts this discussion in relief is the situation we are now facing with refugees and asylum seekers. In view of this situation, where we know that we're going to have to prioritize every single penny on the state budget bonehardt – because we're going to have well-being, we're going to be able to shift new jobs, and we're going to be able to bet on education and knowledge – at least I believe that a new, large national investment of billions of dollars on this, which, to say the least, has a dubious direct learning effect, is crazy to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1420	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1423	The theme of this debate – early efforts for healthy diet and good nutrition – has a major place in the Workers' Party's public health policy. That is why we want all students to have offers of fruit and food at school. If we succeed in having both adults and children eat more fruit and green, it will be a great benefit to people’s health. Food in school has both nutritional, social and learning benefits. Research on social inequality suggests that a healthy school meal will be an important contribution to preventing health inequalities related to just social conditions. That's what all the public health scientists point to when they ask us to make an effort that will do. The schools with these types of schemes have also learned that gathering students around a school meal has a good impact on the school environment and well-being. The Labour Party will reintroduce the system of fruit and vegetables and start work on the introduction of school food for all students in Norwegian school — where, moreover, local adaptations and local road choices are fully possible. The government removed the scheme of free fruit and green when they came to power. Now we see that the number of students who eat fruit and green daily is falling quite dramatically. The government justifies its policy that it is the responsibility of parents to ensure that the young receive good and healthy food. Most people may agree, but families are different. Some children come to school with healthy food packages, while others in height have brought a few dollars from home — perhaps just as often used on unhealthy diets. Usually, children of parents with a high salary or higher education have the good and well-made food packages with them at school, and so inequality in health is created at an early stage in children's lives, which only reinforces later in life. We actually see this in all municipalities. The Labour Party will prevent such developments and has therefore invested half a billion in our alternative budget for various prevention and early intervention measures among children and young people in municipalities, including: in the field of mental health and school health, as mentioned by the Council of State. Government parties are constantly repeating that they want to give priority to school subjects and better teachers than school food, but that is a clear explanation of a rather unwarranted position. The Labour Party grants at least as much for the learning and professional development of the school as the government does. It is not the school budget to finance fruit, greenery and school food, but the health budget. The initiative will come from the pot we have set aside for preventive and health promotion measures that pay off, which are in line with the advice we as politicians get from those who have the most knowledge of this – and which are otherwise common and absolutely affordable in our neighbouring countries with school food arrangements. This is advice that we in the Workers' Party can allow us to follow because we are not going to spend billions of dollars on taxes for a handful of people who are already very good at it. It's called priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1434	I want to focus on time use, the amount of time that children spend feeding, that is, how much time they spend eating. Councillor Røe Isaksen was a little into it himself, that the guidelines say 20 minutes. The situation is the one that documented research shows that fewer and fewer children get the recommended 20 minutes of lunch break. There has been a decline since 2006. Some people only have a 10-minute lunch break. ‘It’s worrying,’ says nutrition professor Nanna Lien. What is also evident in this research is that only half know the guidelines, and it turns out that fewer people know the guidelines now than in 2006. I think this is almost worse to say than it is by chance that the various schools have school meals or not, and to what extent they have some offer of food at school at all. For school meals is not just pure feeding; it's not just getting food. It's about learning – that's what all professionals say about this – and it's an important break for young children. Clinical nutrition physiologist at the Rikshospitalet, Østberg Landaas, says, among other things. that 10 to 15 minutes for eating is too small. It should be 20-30 minutes and preferably followed by 15 minutes of physical activity. So all children really need 45 minutes of break in the middle of the day. So I want to challenge the Council of State Røe Isaksen on what he likes to think new about the school day when it's just this -- not necessarily having a whole day school, which there's a lot of debate about, but now I mean exactly what I'm talking about: a longer lunch break in the middle of the day, which connects to it being out in the free minute right after, that it's going to be 45 minutes. What I want to ask myself is: later this fall, we will adopt a formidable commitment to research. We spend a lot of money on research in this country, but sometimes – and rarely – we don't use the knowledge we get. And I wonder why we don't, when all scientists who work with food and health and public health – and as the Health Directorate writes in its guidelines – want to introduce school meals because it improves people's health. It's just going to be a huge problem and a huge cost to this society. So we don't dare go into it, but just make it into a kind of debate that that party is against learning, and that party is too learning, when at least many of these researchers think that the children are going to learn better. For me, it becomes too simple a track – for which the Right is in favour, and for which the Council of State strongly argues – when the only instrument to knock out everything is continuing and continuing training alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1448	Politics is about prioritizing. It is about setting targets, taking action to achieve those objectives and doing what is most important first. The aim of school policy must be to get the highest possible knowledge. In Juliussen's contributions earlier today, he pointed out that he was somewhat uncertain about whether there was a direct link between food and quality, or whether there were some other factors involved. We also know that free school food — or tax-funded school food, as it really is — costs between 1.5 and 3.5 billion. kr, if you ignore all the investment costs that are also on the top. There is a high price tag on something that might work, on something that does not take into account local differences, on something that is really the responsibility of parents – when we know that we have things that are more important. What are the main priorities in school? For the right, it is to bet on teachers and early efforts, to have a teacher's lift, a reading and calculation strategy, a better school-home follow-up and a good follow-up in general by the students. That's why it's important for us to do the most important thing first. It's not about giving free school food to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1457	Then, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I want to round off the debate, but I also want to respond to Marianne Aasen, who was concerned about the timing of meals. I fully agree that this is an important matter, and in this context I would like to point out that our Minister of Health, Bent Höie, presented new technical guidelines for the school meal on 1 October, where the work now under way between the Ministry of Health and Health and the Ministry of Knowledge will help to increase the proportion of schools that actually follow these guidelines. Because, as the representative said, a 2013 survey revealed that the proportion of schools that had organized the school day so that students had at least a 20-minute lunch break was just 55 pst. for the nursery and 40 pst. for the intermediate stage. The last time this school meal supervisor was revised was in 2003. And from the results of the 2013 survey, it is clear that the follow-up to good school meals has not been sufficiently prioritised over many years, but that work towards the schools is now finally being revitalised, and that the government is taking care of it. The right has great ambitions for public health work, such as: should contribute to good dietary habits in children and adolescents. It's not that we don't take this seriously even though we don't want to give priority to spending a lot of money towards a state system where everyone is going to have a meal. We find many good examples from schools, which are mentioned here, finding solutions to this challenge. Policy is about prioritizing, and among the four parties that are now giving equal priority, we have given priority not only to continuing training of teachers, but also to a number of different measures to contribute to learning, as we know from research, are the most effective measures for children and young people to learn what they need to learn at school. We have discussed early work earlier today. We're going to discuss disqualification at school later today. We have a number of major challenges to solve, and it's not necessarily that introducing a government school food system is the most effective way to solve the challenges we're facing at school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1468	For students in a class who have very good math teachers — have highly educated and highly skilled teachers — the most effective measure is perhaps that they are saturated if they have not eaten. A nutritionist would say that. So that's the whole point. But in another class, where perhaps the children get healthy meals from home, it may be further training of teachers that is the answer – it depends entirely on it. In Norwegian school, however, there are so many differences that this varies greatly. What makes it very worrying, I think, is the time spent eating. It turns out that the schools can decide this on their own to a very large extent. Then it is alarming that we have adopted a work environment law that ensures that all adults are entitled to a half-hour break in the middle of the day, but that children do not have it. Children are left entirely to how teachers and principal organize this. I don't think it's good enough with guidelines. I have been sitting on the Stortinget for several years and have also been sitting on the church, education and research committee for several years, and I believe that we should have done something about this for the longest time. What I want to challenge all the parties is that we simply go together and now decide that it doesn't comply with guidelines. We have to set a standard for how long children are going to sit and eat their meal. We're still in disagreement about who's going to make this food, and where it's going to be made, but at least we can make sure that children get the same access to breaks as adults get, because that's not the way it is now. It would have been very interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about this, if he could imagine working on this particular issue, because I don't think there's going to be any change in this. It is commendable by Minister of Health Höie to continue working on it, but unfortunately I don't think it will help. Norwegian school is so under pressure in a lot of areas that unless it is clearly notified from this room that all children will have half an hour, it will not happen in all Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1479	Just a little comment at the end of something that also came up as part of the replication -- all the lines were eaten up, so I didn't get the opportunity to come up with it. The refugee crisis that Norway is now experiencing, in which many young people, children and young people are gradually coming into Norwegian schools as a result of it, is not an argument against strengthening efforts to reduce social differences; it is not an argument against measures to reduce the situation at home; it is not an argument against measures to strengthen training, rather on the contrary. If this refugee crisis in some years is not going to lead to great social differences, great class distinctions, in this country, the school is just a very important arena, both for health and for opportunities to learn languages and get an education, get equal opportunities in society. Using the refugee crisis as an argument for not doing anything in school, I think I'm a very defensive – and maybe it also reveals a short-term – way of thinking about school, maybe a short-term way of thinking about politics, which I think is alarming. That's the short-term versus the long-term that this might be collapsing with each other. Where we experience school food as a tool to simply achieve huge profits for society and for individuals in the long term, through large savings for the health system, for the welfare system in general – large savings for individuals by not dropping out, that one can continue – the government party does not see that kind of long lines, but sticks to the budget for this year. On the other hand, there is a long perspective in other areas, which is not about children and young people, but is about whole other groups in society. I think when it comes to the play, the school and the elephant are far, far down on the priority list to the Right and the Progress Party. This debate is a very strong proof of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1490	Thank you for the debate. I'll try to say a few words about the direct challenges I've been given. I just want to say first that if it's like that only the parties that are for a national school meal scheme to everyone, have students high on their priority list, it's probably almost only SV and the Center Party that have it, so I think it's a little strange test, to say it carefully. My point is simply that some schemes in Norway are a strength that is universal and applies to everyone. As far as other schemes are concerned, I think it makes more sense to think: who is the one who needs the most, and how can you set up the policy so that they get it? In other words, I mean, there is a big difference – it may be a little artificial distinction, but nevertheless – a school in a resource-intensive, if we are to use the word, neighbourhood where one can assume, and see in practice, that the parents are both concerned with healthy diets, the children have food packages, and they are well informed about it – there is no shortage of health trends in many neighborhoods, to say it carefully, sometimes it can even take a little too much – and a school in a neighborhood where you may not be able to assume that the parents have the same knowledge, cannot assume that the parents have the same tradition of sending food packages with children, etc. Then I think that's the last school we have to address, that's where the challenge lies. And the best way to do that is by having a government tool, which we have, sharing good examples, which we're going to do more, having guidance, which we're also going to have more of, but at the same time let the municipalities take that priority. Then Marianne Aasen has a very good question. I mean, like the Minister of Health, and the government believes that the children should have a 20-minute lunch, at least. It's a minimum measure. So the question is, should it be an absolute requirement, or should it be an indicative guideline, as it is now? There I believe that in this case, as in everyone else, we have to remember what we often discuss otherwise, and that is: is it so that the sum of good intentions in school has grown so large that schools, teachers and often also municipalities do not really have any local space for action? Can we assume with certainty that local schools and principals and teachers at school are also interested that the children should have time to eat their food, that we can encourage it, that we can be clear on what is recommended advice, but that we do not need to impose it or make it an absolute rule for everyone? That balance is at least quite obvious to me. I do not in any way reject the discussion, but we have to remember that it is actually a balance we have to make between more central control and local trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1499	That is when the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1513	This case concerns a proposal for a representative to ask the Government to draw up a systematic and long-term national plan for the peace and human rights centres throughout Norway. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter and also to thank the proposers for putting an important theme on the agenda. Then I am pleased that the Committee on this matter has reached a common agreement and that we are promoting a unanimous attitude towards Stortinget. Peace and human rights centres are established in several parts of the country. In addition to centres and museums operated by public authorities, centres owned and operated by private organisations are established. These centres are organised as private foundations and work in different ways on documentation, research and dissemination in the areas of democracy, peace, human rights, prison stories and genocide. Today, seven such centres receive support from the Ministry of Knowledge. Centers have different geographic impact fields, and they have different profiles. But they have in common that they are important learning venues and important actors in research, documentation and dissemination of Norwegian war history. It is important that these centres have a predictable and good economic environment around their activities. At the same time, it is important that foundations retain their autonomy and remain free in the future to choose working methods and methods based on their own specificities and local and regional conditions where they are located. A long-term national plan for these centres could represent a greater degree of government governance that would be neither desirable nor possible to follow up because the State does not have the right to govern private foundations. However, the State has overall responsibility for the policy relating to peace, documentation and dissemination, and the Committee points out in its recommendation that the foundations currently supported should naturally be included as an essential part of this work. The Committee considers that there may be a need for a long-term strategy for the country’s efforts in this area and guidelines for its financial contribution to the foundations working in this field. Against this background, a Joint Committee promotes a proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to draw up a strategy for the State's efforts in the fields of peace, documentation and dissemination, as well as guidelines for the state's financial contribution to the foundations working on this and receiving support. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1528	The attention given to the issues that we are dealing with in this room today – including this case – cannot compare with what is happening elsewhere in this house, what is about how to deal with the acute refugee situation. It's not so strange, because the situation we now have is of such a nature that it's very important to make good decisions here in the house. But it also affects all other areas of our society, and that, of course, people have opinions about -- it's a matter of course. The debate on how to solve these challenges is quite legitimate as well. Nevertheless, the form of public vocabulary may give cause for concern. The way some people talk about other people – refugees – is what I would call unacceptable. Foreign fear and racism, antisemitism and hatred against people who are different – if it is not growing, then there are attitudes that unfortunately are most present in our society. So what's the best vaccine against this? I think education and knowledge dissemination are very important in this context, learning about how disastrous the consequences of such a human vision can have, and how demanding it is, and how dramatic it can be if intolerance and fear of alienation spread. In this work, the Peace and Human Rights Centres are central. The Holocaust Centre, the Archives Foundation, the Falstad Centre, Nansen Fredssenter – now I mention only four of them – are scattered throughout the country together with the other centres, and they make a solid daily effort in this area. But they're not everywhere, and they're different organized and differently funded, and the consequence of this is that the offer is good somewhere, while elsewhere it's not quite as good as it should be. It will be a long way to travel for many school students if they are to visit some of the centres, so far that in practice it is not possible. The consequence is that in parts of the country you will have little access, and elsewhere you will have good access to these types of centres. This is unfortunate in the eyes of the Workers' Party. That is why I am pleased that there is agreement to develop a strategy for these centres. So far they've lived a kind of adhoc life, each, and often they've come to us in the fall to get extra money. There has rarely been an overall strategy for how to work, and how to finance them, but it has become a little late. A good distribution of funds and tasks will improve the impact of centres and provide better access for people around Norway. And even though the centers are foundations, I think it's right for the state to have views on how to spend as much money as we do on these centers. That's why I look forward to the ministry working on such a strategy, and that there is also a general outline of how it looks at the role of the various centres. As far as I know, it hasn't ever been done, at least not in a way that stakes out a course for what role these should play in society. I am quite sure that when he gets the floor, the Council of State will stress exactly what freedom the various centres have to develop at their own course. I will support him in that, and I believe the approach adopted by the Committee is correct. Just as well, it is wise for us to grant money, and then to fully finance many of the centers, to have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1541	The Progress Party believes that knowledge dissemination is one of the most important tools available in the work on increased tolerance, respect and human rights. This work we think is becoming more important and more important in the future. It must be acknowledged that from 1940 to 1945 the generations of people with their own experience in the occupation of war in Norway are thinning out. This places considerable responsibility on both national authorities and civil society for enabling future generations to become acquainted with this important part of Norway’s history. Especially in these days, it is important to focus on the dissemination of knowledge about the time of war, on racism and holocaust, on human rights violations and on our common history. Both in Norway and in Europe, trends in increasing antisemitism and the rise in extreme movements are seen. Spreading knowledge about the historical experience of totalitarian ideologies and extremes of thought is one of the most important tools we have in the fight against intolerance and antisemitism. The different national centres play a key role here. We in the Progress Party are therefore pleased that the Labour Party, through its proposal, promises the role of these centres. In principle, the Progress Party will assume that the centres concerned are free and independent. At the same time, we share the proposal's desire to ensure more predictability and a clear division of labour for the peace and human rights centres. We feel that there is a basis for assessing how resources are allocated between centres to ensure both predictability and equality based on defined criteria. A systematic and long-term national plan should primarily aim to ensure that people, especially children and young people, have access throughout the country to a professional training and dissemination offer dealing with the themes mentioned in the proposal. For example, the dissemination may take place in the same way as the cultural school bag is disseminated. In addition, both the fight against anti-Semitism and not least the history of war sailing should be a relevant theme. Finally, the Archives Foundation is now working to establish the Norwegian Centre for War Sailing History. The history of the war ropes continues to have a far too modest and down-priority place in research and dissemination of the history of World War II, and the Progress Party hopes that this can be lifted. A national plan must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, contribute to raising knowledge, ensuring predictability and exploiting the specificities of the various centres. A national plan must not interfere with the activities of the centres on a daily basis, nor must it exclude the establishment of any new centres elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1554	The state supports, as has been said today, seven independent foundations engaged in documentation, research and dissemination in the areas of democracy, peace, human rights, prison history and genocide. These are the ones we call the Peace and Human Rights Centres with a common name, and they're all around the country working with a little bit of different problems, a little bit of different areas and a little bit of different ways. I'm not going to go into descriptions of it. I very much agree with what has been underlined by several here, namely that we have to assume that these centres are independent foundations. The centres are also very different. They differ in size, regional context, organisation and working methods. Many of them work, for example: based on World War II history and possibly Norwegian war and prisoner history associated with this. For example, the Narvik Centre, based on Norse war and occupation history, conveys important stories. In Kristiansand we have the Foundation Archive, which is held in a house where the Gestapo had headquarters in the Southland, etc. Others are peace and human rights centers. Many centres also document and maintain archives and collections and carry out other tasks bordering on museum activities. This is often done in cooperation with organisations and other local and regional museums and helps to keep substantial information available to the public. At the same time, the permanent grant to the centres is to a small extent focused on the work carried out by the centres in this area, and it would require a more extensive bureaucratic apparatus with the necessary expertise to carry out quality assessments of the museum work of the centres in order to achieve it. Current grants are mainly linked to the dissemination of democratic values and attitudes by the centres to children and young people, as well as efforts to strengthen peacemaking and inter-human understanding. In order for the centres to retain their autonomy and to be able to choose for themselves how they will work, I think it is wise that we stick to today's unbureaucratic system. However, it may be worth considering whether the centres can come together more than before, learn from each other, and become aware of their common role in dealing with children and young people. The state grant to the foundations has been very stable and several centres have been increased in recent years. The Committee calls for us to develop a strategy for State action in relation to the peace, documentation and dissemination activities of these centres. The government is busy using the resources that are in the voluntary sector, and in the light of the good cooperation we have had with these centres for many years, it is a task I look forward to – of course, on the basis that these are independent foundations, and that a good balance must be found with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1567	Just a few brief considerations from me in this matter. I refer to the position and join the wise words spoken by several speakers, both on the importance of the work done by the Peace and Human Rights Centres, and not least on the state's drawing up a strategy for its efforts in this area. I will not repeat all that has been said, except to stress that the work done by these centres is of invaluable importance, both to understand our common history and, not least, to address important and difficult issues in our time – and in our future. I would also like to stress that the ambition of the proposal has not been to intervene in everyday life and the way in which these centres work – they will of course retain their autonomy – but to stress that this is a shared responsibility to ensure: both the dissemination of history, which is essential for understanding the present, and to actively work against today's children and young people to ensure that more people have the opportunity to understand things that are happening around us, and to deal with the many difficult issues that come to our society. That is why I am also very pleased that an overall committee is behind the position that is being discussed today, and that this underlines that we have a shared responsibility to lift an area that is extremely important in history, and not least in the day-to-day context. I could just think of the tamp to challenge the Council of State to say a little bit about the time perspective in terms of such an overall plan. There is no mention of expectations about it in the proposal for a decision, but we believe that this work should be carried out quite quickly, as it is both day-to-day and not least important that we have an overall strategy for the state's efforts to do so, which ensures the predictability and long-termity of the peace and human rights centres in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1580	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1596	Since Reform 94 was introduced 21 years ago, the proportion of drop-outs, or those who do not complete high school within five years, has been constantly around 30 pst. Behind this average there are important differences, such as that the drop-out in the professional sector is over 40 p.p., and that in a city like Oslo there are about three times more drop-outs in some eastern parts of the city than in the western. When the drop-out here can be 40–50 p.m., especially among boys, we are facing a problem that can have serious consequences both for individuals and for society. For example, in order to illustrate the challenge: those working on this in Alna City, that they have 500-600 drop-outs from recent years that they try to follow up in different ways. Fortunately, a good part of those who drop out, school at a later stage, and some get into a stable professional life in other ways. So luckily it's not 30 pst. who remain without a job and education. But in any case, there are a large number of people who get a difficult start on adult life, and who end up in a situation where they can be particularly vulnerable to problems of drug addiction, mental health, gambling addiction, crime, radicalisation, etc. Almost all governments and knowledge ministers have focused on the high dropout from high school and launched new efforts to do something about it. But no one has been able to hit the chest and say that they have succeeded in bringing down the numbers. They've all focused on early effort, i.e. the prevention of non-compliance from kindergarten through primary school. Much right and sensible has been done here, and that is of course all reason to continue the good work, as has been mentioned in the debate on a proposal for a representative earlier today. But it is also high time to look at what is being done when it comes to the fact that a student is still about to drop out. Do we have a system that works well enough, or does the follow-up often become too weak, passive and varying? I've been talking to students who have dropped out, counselors and teachers at the schools and those who work with the follow-up service in the metropolitan districts of Oslo about this for a number of years. So I use the experience from here to address a problem that I think will concern many municipalities and county municipalities around the country. The description given by the persons concerned is about the following: If the adviser and teacher notice that a student is at risk of dropping out, they may try to contact the home, the city and other partners in order to deploy prevention measures. But it will be very different what you actually get done – depending on resources, individual motivation, how many possible drop-outs you have to work with at that school, networks around the student, etc. When a student then does not show up at school at all, the school should clarify the situation and transfer responsibility for following up to the follow-up service in the city or municipality and Nav. Such a system is in Oslo and in many other county municipalities, then the school also loses the so-called unit-price financing for the student. It can range from about 75 000 kroner to up to 450 000 kroner per year, depending on the line. Printing a drop-out student thus has significant financial implications for the school. Two or three dates per year have been set for reporting and clarifying non-responses by schools. They then collect those that have dropped out in the meantime. In Oslo, the dates are 1 May, 1 October and 1 February. It gets so fast that if a student is actually dropped out in March-April, the school can choose to see it longer than until 1 May and wait to report on final non-response until 1 October. Thereafter, it may take a few weeks to have the reports reviewed and forwarded through different stages of the establishment and administration. Those who are going to work with follow-up can thus experience getting them out very well in November. In some high-degraded urban areas, they can then get a long list of e.g. 100 names dumping in, to be followed. Often the person working on this, also has other important work tasks, so that it can take time to contact the drop-out students. The student who dropped out in March-April can then experience hearing only in December, i.e. 7-8 months later. In these months, many people will be in a difficult and vulnerable situation. They can feel that they live in an empty space where nothing happens. It is unclear who is responsible for following them in the meantime, and it may also be that the home is not so functioning that they get done anything. Some of the drop-out students live with friends or elsewhere and do not keep in touch with the family, or conflict with them. Some people may get into problems and environments that make it difficult to get back to a good social life again. It might be possible to answer that if in some cases there's going to be several months, this is just a failure in another good system. But then at least drop-out students who have told me their stories, and those who work with them in vulnerable neighbourhoods and municipalities, have experienced too many such failures. Instead of getting into the defensive position and denying this, I think it's necessary to look critically at the system and try out other ways to do it. Once again, I will draw up some experiences from the capital: In two secondary schools in Oslo, the Nav contacts have moved into school, so that there can be a close cooperation with advisers and teachers when a student is at risk of dropping out. They can then set up actions in time and get a bigger register to play on when Nav is on the team. Provision outside the school itself, such as places of action or the practice letter scheme, may be tailored, which is a form of professional training without theory. It was introduced in 2007 as a promising alternative to theories, but in Oslo only six places have been created on the cook and service line, and in the whole country the number is only around 100. This good experience of Nav contacts in schools should be put more into the system and developed further. We should gather the resources to work to prevent apostasy in a community in the schools. If we make it the rule that students should be followed up from school until they are 18 years old, regardless of whether the measures are taken outside the school, the responsibility is clearly placed all the way. The danger that drop-out students will experience walking in some sort of void, without anyone contacting them, will be much less. Although students are active elsewhere than in the classroom and work e.g. in the store, they should be followed up continuously with the offer of a course and other, so that it does not end up with just a few weeks' work and then nothing for long periods. The national assembly of the Labour Party has decided that we should try out such a scheme. It would also be natural for schools not to lose the entire price of funding for a drop-out student. They should retain a certain proportion of it in order to provide them with the resources to coordinate long-term efforts around the student in cooperation with Nav, the services of the neighbourhood or municipality, non-governmental organisations, health services, mental health and others. When the school keeps on doing this and has the students in its roles, there will be more hope and chance that one day, if not for so long, school can be resumed. It's way too early in our educational community to print a 16-17-year-old from school for good. I believe that, after 21 years without any decline in the dropout, it is high time to take the spoon in another hand and think again. It was encouraging when Minister of Knowledge Røe Isaksen in a debate with me in Dagsnytt 18 this summer took the issue seriously and said: We have to try out the kind of action that Bøhler sketches. It was a promising warming before today's debate, and I look forward to hearing the input of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1628	Thanks to the representative Bøhler for almost consistently good questions and interesting interpellations. There is a lot that can be done – and must be done – to prevent apostasy. In my answer, I'm going to focus most on the coordination of the system. It is – to put it very simply – perhaps the least taboo part of our political activity, but perhaps the one that is all, most importantly. Then I also have to hurry to add that part of what the representative describes, Bøhler, will be very different from the counties to the counties, both the way you finance high school, and how you set up the system for counting students, for example. But it is a problem that the public system is not coordinated enough. Whenever it is reported that different services and agencies are not talking, when no communication is made when a student drops out of school, or when children and young people become throwballs in the system, there is a problem. We know it's like this. You could call it a glitch, but in that case it's a glitch that repeats years after year too many. Children’s protection, police, school, hub and health services shall have the same objective in general, namely to provide the best possible assistance to young people when necessary. When the interpellant asks what ‘should be done to ensure a better coordinated effort from day one when pupils are about to drop out’, he points to something very central. He points to coordination challenges that have existed for a long time, under changing governments, and although we can get better, I think we are constantly in a large public system that ours is going to struggle with this, and must address it. Norwegian administration is characterized in many ways by a sector organisation, that we think silo. For example, education, child protection or healthcare services work separately, with full attention to their sectoral objectives. It may be a natural consequence of the rigging of the various disciplines, with guidelines from the department via trade union directorates and out to the individual municipal trade union, to put it a little simple. The problem arises when one hand does not know what the other hand does, when all good helpers out there do not talk together, are not at the same meeting and do not gather around the user or the one who needs help – rather than when the level of management at different levels and at different levels of administration has not realised that action and services must be organised in such a way that they work together and mutually generate a overall better result both for the individual and for society, in this case for young people who are about to drop out or who have dropped out. It has often been pointed out as a major problem to get better information and interaction across sectors and disciplines, but we have not done enough. The Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have now taken a new approach to their Directorates to improve this. The ambition is better coordination of sectoral instruments, both at State and local level. The overall objective is to facilitate better interaction between services locally in municipalities, so that more vulnerable children and young people are helped in the past, more coordinated and more accurately. This includes, inter alia: a little prosaic governance, such as the fact that all 18 counties have been given a coordinated and co-ordinated mandate in the work of the four departments. The role of the peoples includes: assisting and supporting the development of good interdisciplinary cooperation between municipalities. This implies that both the State and the municipality must develop their practices in several areas. At national level, we need to ensure that policies and actions developed within a department are more adapted to the areas of expertise of neighbouring departments, such as: the policy design of labour market measures for young people entitled to secondary education is coordinated with actions aimed at the same target audience in the field of education policy. In several of the documents that have come to Stortinget, in the communications and in the strategies we have delivered, this is referred to as the 0–24 cooperation. In this cooperation, the Directorates shall in the first instance: assess different legislation and instruments to reach target audiences against each other in order to make adaptations that strengthen interaction develop better cooperation procedures, i.e. the way in which it is working in the Directorates to strengthen cooperation and develop more comprehensive solutions for work on the target local sample models for interdisciplinary cooperation through projects local or national, such as Programmes for Better Implementation, A team around the student and enhanced cooperation between Nav and the secondary schools in all counties. I'll briefly mention some of these: Programme for better implementation is one of the changes that this government has undergone. We know that there has been no lack of action or money to reduce the drop-out rate, but there has been a partial lack of results at the overall level and knowledge of what works. What we're going to do through the Programme for Better Implementation is spend about 80 million dollars. kr in 2016, in cooperation with the county councils, to test and test out and share experience with different measures to follow up young people who fall out. From autumn 2016, we will also undertake a comprehensive research effort to identify actions that have demonstrated the impact of reducing non-response. This involves a step-by-step reform, where we try different methods and models, where we evaluate these effects and then evaluate how what works can be implemented on a larger scale. It goes without saying that it is less envious to go more step by step to work, but when we know that we've spent billions of dollars on the drop-off without the results getting better overall, I think this is a reasonable approach. In addition, the government has introduced experiments with Nav supervisors at selected secondary schools in all county municipalities. This offer is provided in schools that are struggling with low implementation and high non-response, and is a cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In order to strengthen the prevention of non-response and develop a good psychosocial learning environment, we have also tried out a multidisciplinary model, which we have called a team around the student, at primary school level in some municipalities. This is about several occupational groups with a health and social background to work together at school with vulnerable pupils. There is now a solid knowledge base and sketches for models that can be tested. Work on the next phase will continue in 2016. These are some of the key initiatives. The key is – as the representative Bøhler was also in – that this must also be reflected locally. But I believe that through good national programmes, but also through good national coordination, for example. between the directorates, there is a greater chance that you can get good follow-up locally. So the representative wants more use of practical letters for school-tired students, and there I agree with the heart. Trials started in 2007 with the letter-of-mortgage scheme, and a partial evaluation of the scheme was already in place in 2009. Here, NIFU concluded that the scheme seemed to be very successful. They concluded, inter alia: that the attempt to recruit has contributed to much lower non-response and to better implementation for those who participated than would be expected had those young people been in regular secondary education. It is now time for the practical letter system to become a permanent part of higher education, not for everyone, but as a permanent offer in all counties. We have, therefore, recently sent to the hearing a proposal containing the necessary legislative changes. In spring 2016, we will return to Stortinget with legislative proposals aimed at ensuring that all municipalities have the practical letter system – and hopefully expand it. I must also mention that we are strengthening the grant to apprentices and apprentices who have special needs, a grant that we have increased to 58 million. kr in 2016. All these may be measures that will have an impact. The most important thing is that we work systematically, and that the measures are also tested and used locally. We have to spend the community's money on efforts that can actually make a difference. It is – as the representative of Bøhler said – both socio-economically useful and, in particular, absolutely crucial for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1678	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and operational contribution. It is very positive that the Council of State will propose that letters of practice become a permanent scheme and that it be established at school. When I got the Great Britain Investigation Section to go through how many counties it had now, and how many places there were, I think it was really just in five counties the scheme worked, and there was a small number there as well. I mentioned six places in the capital, where there could obviously be a need for a lot more. I think it is very nice that the government should promote it, and that we can establish it within the school in a different and more stable way. I think having more action to play with this group at all is crucial. I can only mention something as specific as that in a part of the city I know well, it is approx. 50 young people who are in a kind of crisis situation, in a life situation that is very difficult because of conflicts, they have dropped out of school, and they don't live at home. There may be different things to deal with for different groups, but for their part it is to get a stable residence and a more stable life to be able to concentrate on school. In order to get in and do something, there is a need to look for systems in case of crisis apartments or other things for young people. What the Council of State said is that it is very different from county to county – and from city to city, for that matter – how this is practised, and how well it works with this, is obviously right, but something is common. I have looked at a report that told me about this with collection dates, i.e. that you report at two to three times a year. I guess that had all the states. Some had two dates in the year, and some had three, and it is then easy an impulse to wait to report until that date comes. Of course, it is important to work best with the students, but when nothing happens, waiting is not a good alternative. And when it's connected to the fact that it's a piece of price finance -- I think it was either 12 or 14 county councils that had a piece price financing for the students -- it's right there, I'm not going to say an impulse to wait, but when the school waits for the next date to report, it also keeps the piece price financing during that period. So there's something in common with what can slow down a good follow-up, slow down close contact, which I think is important to look at and dissolve in to make the system go more on rails, as the council was about. It is not normal or necessary that the drop-out should be as high as it is in us and in some other countries. Ireland is probably the star example, where nine out of ten complete, and one out of ten falls from. So we have something to stretch to and should be able to go further with a better effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1691	Ireland is a good example, but I often think that an even more illustrative example is the United States. Everyone's heard from movies about high school drop-outs like that, and they realize it's a big problem. In the United States, about nine out of ten people attend high school, which is similar to our high school. And when we have an implementation of about 70 pst., that's all cause for concern. In the case of reporting dates and unit prices, these reporting dates are primarily used as a public governance tool to find out how many students you have. So it can work both ways when it comes to price, because it's clear that if you don't have any price elements, you're going to get the same amount of money, no matter how many students you have, so it can weaken the incentive to work on getting rid of it. If you have a very strong price combined with reporting dates, it may weaken the incentive to report. I said in a debate with the representative of Bohemia earlier that it was worth looking at this. I still think we should do that. Now I don't think the problem is the reporting date as such. The problem is, if necessary, another regulation which means that at the moment you leave school, nothing is happening right away, and it is not a good enough system for the school to either report to other parts of the municipality or have a system to follow the student who reports quickly. Once again, I think it's also worth saying here that the easiest way to do this is that the municipalities work better with it. Many municipalities have very good experience in setting up interdisciplinary teams around the individual user, where they gather, for example. child protection, primary health service, school and hub and prepare packages for the individual. I have great faith in it, also because I believe that for a person who drops out of high school, it is far from given, rather on the contrary, that a Nav action is the best. The best thing is that the person is supported to return to school and, if necessary, other types of support that he or she needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1705	Disaster has been discussed in this room many times, it's been mentioned in the media many times, and we school politicians are all concerned about it. It's not without reason, because we're talking about the most central success criterion for Norwegian school. That's what we're really discussing, because this means something in real life – especially for the individual student who falls away, but also for how we as a society succeed in having a productive adult population and people who have a job and are able to earn their own money – as opposed to, for example, that's what we're talking about. PISA rankings, which are not such a type of success criterion. I want to praise the interpellant, who addresses a central theme and who has been very thoroughly involved in it. It is easy to understand when you hear the post of the representative Jan Bøhler. But why is this so difficult? I think at least one obvious reason is that there are so different reasons why the individual falls from. It follows that the measures also have to be different, because it is not possible to do one concrete thing and believe that then the decline will decrease. It is possibly where we may have made a mistake and thought that this is easier said than done. It's not. It's written page up and page down about this. I'm also a little bit in doubt about saying that we need more knowledge to figure out what leads to non-response, because it's been documented for a long time what this is all about, in my opinion. It's all about school rent, school doesn't satisfy the offer the youth wants. This is particularly true of many professionals who experience a very — many would call it — theoretical or school-based approach with very little practice. They don't get apprenticeship space, and so it's a failure. There may be social problems that have nothing to do with school at all – problems at home, housing, child protection, that kind of relationship. There may be psychological problems that each individual is struggling with, and it may be that you just feel that now is not the right time to go to school, that you have no motivation left, etc. The single measure that has been thought to have been the best way of doing this is to have the basic skills in place, because then you're set up and equipped to go into high school. Then you master the subjects, and then you don't experience defeat in the classroom. The second is much closer follow-up in general, in particular through the transitions between primary and secondary schools and secondary schools. We need to have better vocational training – it will probably help improve implementation – and it does a lot with: both the previous government and the current government do a lot with it. School health services are also important. There are too few employees in the school health service in Norway. If you have mental problems, it is difficult to get low-threshold help. We are all aware of that, but unfortunately this government will not designate positions for the school health service, as we did in 2013. Clearly, it is difficult for the school to solve problems that are not related to school. Then the problem becomes difficult to solve, because then you get coordination problems right away. Several have been involved in this debate – and it has probably been in the media as well – that what has been done against apostasy is almost a failure. I think it's taking your mouth a little bit full. I think that without the measures you've taken, the numbers would probably be bigger, because there's a lot of people who get help and who are dropping out. But the most important thing, I think -- no matter what department that is responsible, whether it's the school itself, or whether it's Nav, who seems to be a good tool -- is that what hits you when you talk to young people who have come back, or who have been on the verge of falling out, is that they point to the adults who were there, who looked after them and helped them with the challenges they had. They had closeness to some adults in the school system, or the system around them, which made them manage through a difficult time. Those who don't have it, who don't have close personal relationships with people around them in the school system, or others who help out, are often the ones who fall off. I'm optimistic, because this is a cross-political challenge that we're all concerned with, and that I think we'll be able to solve. But we have to have patience, and we have to do a lot different at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1726	The interpellation that the representative of Bohemia has taken on measures to ensure early and better coordinated action when students are about to leave high school is a very important issue. The dropout group is more likely to face problems later in life, among others. to provide for themselves and to take care of themselves other than those who complete normal secondary education. The most important thing to prevent high school dropouts is to ensure that students acquire basic knowledge in primary school reading, writing and math. Good and clear school management and the individual teacher are the main resources for student learning, and the Progress Party has expectations that the government’s formidable commitment to further education of teachers and in school management will make students better equipped to complete high school. We also have expectations that the project ‘A team around the student’ and the cross-ministerial project described by the Minister of Knowledge in his speech, which is referred to as ‘0–24 cooperation’, will contribute to a coordinated and strengthened effort towards pupils who are struggling at school. Early efforts with adapted training, good school feedback culture and good contact between teachers and parents are important throughout the school cycle and are particularly important in phases where the students are at risk of dropping out. With good dialogue between students, teachers and parents, you can find solutions that suit the student more easily. Not everyone is able to attend school for as long as we do in Norway, and therefore there is a need for flexible solutions in this area for those who are not typically A4 students. The Progress Party believes that by allowing for more alternative training courses, the ordinary non-response will be reduced and, at the same time, better able to give those who fall off, the opportunity to succeed. The government has three main objectives for the Vocational Training: closer cooperation between school and working life, more flexible courses in vocational and vocational training and better quality and relevance in training. In this way, working life will have the skills they need and young people will have their skills realised through vocational and vocational training. Boehler’s denominator, among others. letters of practice in their interpellation. It is also a system of which the Progress Party has always been a major supporter, and which we believe should be used more. The evaluation of the pilot scheme with practical letters also shows that the scheme has had a clear impact on the implementation and access to apprenticeship in the enterprise of the candidates who participated. The Progress Party is therefore in favour of a proposal that the letter-of-mortgage scheme be an offer to be made in all counties. With regard to the county follow-up service, it is possible that it varies from state to state, but my experience from Rogaland is that it works very well, and that the students are caught at an early stage, and that they are then offered through the follow-up service and other relevant establishments involved. And through the New GIV, we have now gained a much better overview of the target group of young people aged 15 to 21 outside of education and work, and this gives both schools and relevant agencies a unique opportunity to capture young people in the risk zone. Furthermore, we see that trials with Nav supervisors in high school, where Stovner and Hellerud are high school students in Oslo, have a very good effect. We in the Progress Party expect that the government's clear initiatives through the follow-up of the students, the Vocational Training, together with the other measures, such as 'A team around the student' and the mentioned 0-24 cooperation, will ensure that more students will complete their education in secondary school. However, this presupposes that the student will accept the offers given. That's a prerequisite for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1745	The high dropout in further education has ridden both national school boards, schools and working life as a nightmare for many years. Despite a lot of attention on the topic and actions at all stages, statistics show that non-response remains alarmingly high. Therefore, it is good that Stortinget continues to focus attention on the non-response and seeks to find solutions to the problem. I would therefore also like to thank the representative, Mr Bøhler, for the fact that today we can also put the theme on the agenda and once again ask the government to intensify the work against non-response. There is no lack of analysis of the cause, or rather the causes, of the problem. In the context of the evaluation of the Knowledge promise and the treatment of the Great Britain Communication in June 2013, the Red-Green Government is also promoting more measures to reverse the negative trend, in particular targeting vocational training. Unfortunately, today's government has not shown sufficient perseverance and willingness to put this into practice. Earlier today, we have debated the need for early school interventions. Better school outcomes, so that more people are actually professionally qualified to carry out further schooling, are one of the solutions. However, the content and structure of vocational training itself need to be changed. Here, the Stortinget came to an agreement on several measures that the previous government highlighted in the named Storing Message two years ago. The need for more flexible training courses, where practical letters are one of several measures, is immeasurably important in order to achieve a better system. Too many elephants who initially produce weak basic school scores are not allowed to join the scheme, partly because the scheme is still a limited pilot project, but also because not all schools have experience and systems to guide students into a race that they can manage. Therefore, I am pleased with the signals the Council of State made today regarding the forwarding of the newsletter and getting it into better forms. I agree with the interpellant that the system often fails due to a lack of cooperation between different authorities when a student has dropped out or is about to drop out of training. Once again, the problem is compounded. One challenge is that the school and county council release the student when the student learns from the company. For many, it's a great transition to get into business, and not all are equally lucky with apprenticeship. Both apprentices and training companies could have needed follow-up during this period. I also believe that the exchange model, which we hope will soon get more foothold in all professional programmes and in all counties, will force through a better and more seamless system and cooperation. Everyone is concerned about recruiting professionals. Apart from extra apprenticeships, which I'd like to commend to the government for getting in place in more rounds, the blue-blue government has been more eager to talk about strengthening the profession than actually doing the promise. So far, academic education and research have been given the highest priority. Research is important, but it also provides more credit from the community's stakeholders. It is not the carpenter or health professional who is the real bearer here. Thus, in June 2013, the Stortinget adopted a number of changes for professional subjects. Follow-up to these changes is waiting. The centre party is disappointed that there was no real professionalism in this year’s budget proposal either. In the Center Party, we are impatient, mostly on behalf of all the thousands of elephants who are not allowed to show their potential and are in danger of getting out of school. The drop-out is a waste of young people's potential and society's resources. As a society, we need to take the necessary measures now. Actually, we can't afford to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1766	There are alarming numbers who are not completing high school, and it is worrying because we know that many of those who are not completing are going beyond working life at an early age, with all the negative consequences it has, both for individuals and for society as a whole. This is why work is being done to ensure that more people complete and survive, one of the main challenges we face in Norwegian school. Since the interpellant pulls out Oslo, I want to say several things that characterize the Oslo school. Oslo has been working systematically for many years to increase the rate of implementation among its students. According to statistics from the Directorate of Education, it was among those who started secondary education in 1994, 65 pst. which had been completed after five years. Of those who started in 2009, this penetration rate had increased by ten percentage points, up to 75 pst, and it's pretty impressive. The Oslo School has the largest implementation in the whole country, together with Sogn and Fjordane. In these states now complete over 75 pst. by students, whereas the national average is 70 pst. While Oslo has managed to reduce the decline, the national average has unfortunately been at rest, despite countless attempts to deal with the problem and despite the fact that the country has spent at least 3.3 billion. kr since 1994, according to an article in the Evening Post this summer. In Oslo, reducing non-response has been a major priority for a long time. For example, it involves: that in Oslo special attention has been paid to the literacy skills of the students, from before they begin school. Reading is the key to acquiring knowledge in other areas. Also mathematics has been especially priority in Oslo School, as well as close monitoring and follow-up. The bend of a very large number of people who fall off is math. The systematic use of basic skills to prevent apostasy should not really surprise anyone. There are some of the things we've been doing in Oslo for years with a Right-led City Council. In Oslo, we've also done a lot of things other than bet on basic skills and mapping. We have also focused on school management and targeted measures within Oslo, where we see the greatest need. More money is spent in those areas of the city where we see that the challenges are greatest. A number of measures are also taken, such as: ‘Teach First’, where together with the State of Education, we use young real-life master’s candidates to teach where there are students with the greatest resource problems. The interpellant also mentioned this with Nav offices at the school, which I also think is an exciting measure that needs to be looked at more closely. As the interpellant points out, it is important to strengthen the efforts to reduce non-response and, not least, to coordinate the actions taken so that they can be more effective than we have seen so far. Therefore, the government has launched several measures to strengthen coordination, and the 2016 budget proposes to spend 80 million. a programme in cooperation with all counties in order to strengthen its implementation. It is also nice that the government will provide a better knowledge base through a research project in order to be able to work more knowledge-based and systematically with the actions that we see have demonstrated a positive impact. In the future, there will be more use of practical letters, which also appear to be a good way to go with several other measures. In the spring, the government comes with a big message about lifelong learning and alienation that I think will address some of these issues as well. One of the main priorities of the government is knowledge, knowledge on a broad front, and it has given priority to words, numbers and actions. One of the challenges the school is facing is very big, namely apostasy, and I think again we can meet it with knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1785	Thanks to the interpellant. I fully agree with what has been said earlier in the debate that we need to think completely to get rid of the problem of non-response, and we need to look at many different measures. There are many reasons why too many people don't complete, and then we have to look at different solutions to help students through school. Earlier today, we have debated early school efforts. We know a lot about which students are falling off. We also know that many of the students who experience problems during high school have often had problems throughout their schooling. It is not the case that problems arise as they start in secondary education. This is why early school efforts are very important: being able to help students early, laying a good foundation for the early school years to learn, develop further, and be able to endure. This is why the Christian People's Party is engaged in early efforts, not least by increasing the teacher's density in primary school – giving teachers more time for each individual student, especially in the case of the smallest children. We know that boys are overrepresented in non-response statistics. There are also children of parents with low socio-economic status and children with a foreign background. If we increase the teacher's density and reduce the group size in school, the exact same groups get very much left for it. This is a very long-term bet, and we won't see the results before a few years. It's also important that we help those who are now in danger of dropping out. Some of them drop out, they do because they don't get apprenticeship space. We have to do something about that. This is a challenge that we've discussed many times earlier in this room. We've done something by increasing the apprentice's grant. I think it should be further increased, because this is incredibly important to get more companies to choose to hire apprentices. We have to be better at sharing ‘best practice’ within this field, I think. Here, there are also great differences between states and states to what extent you succeed. In Rogaland they've been very nice. Things are done a little different than in my county, Westfold, where results are not as good. I think we can learn from those who are good. In Rogaland, business has had a great need for apprentices. It may well be that there too will be some major challenges in the future, with the economic situation facing them. When it comes to sharing ‘best practice’, I would point to a school I have mentioned several times before: Re high school in Vestfold. There have been some attempts by following up the students better, both by contacting them before they start school and getting to know them, so that they will feel safe when they start school, and by closer follow-up of the students after they have graduated from school. They have also taken steps to train the vocational teachers to teach in the common subjects, because they see that it is the common subjects that are often the bend of many of the students. When the teacher who's going to teach you English or mathematics is the same as you've been snowing with earlier in the day, maybe this teacher has the opportunity to create a very valuable relationship with the students. I know that the Education Directorate has been visiting Re High School for more information on this. I think that's good. I would like to mention that the Christian People's Party wants us to set up a dropout pool from which schools, municipalities and school owners can apply locally for funds from, for local measures against non-response. It will both help with the situation there and give us proposals for bets that we can introduce nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1803	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing high school drop-outs, which are a major societal problem. Young people who do not complete secondary education generally do much worse in the labour market than those who have completed and are overrepresented among users of social security schemes. In the field of knowledge policy, it has long been one of the main objectives of completing secondary education as much as possible. Arguing governments have had their actions to bring down the dropout. However, despite this, the proportion of those completing secondary education has remained stable over time. As the interpellant refers to, early intervention, adapted training and basic skills are the most important means of reducing non-response. It is well known that there is a link between dropout and a weak professional basis from primary school. Many highly skilled teachers with a high level of professional and pedagogical competence are therefore the most important means of reducing non-response. I would also like to highlight in particular the need to strengthen school health services. Students should have a competent adult to talk to before the problems get too big and make the students drop out of school. Unfortunately, it is not the case that all students have the offer as of today. At the same time, it is important, as the interpellant calls for, with a good follow-up when students are about to drop out or have dropped out while the schools are still in contact with them. Here we can learn from the experience of the follow-up project in the New GIV, which would just strengthen efforts towards youth in this situation. Nova’s evaluation of the 2015 follow-up project showed clear signs of a better follow-up of young people who have fallen out and improved cooperation between various actors involved. At the same time, the evaluation showed that a less successful response to the most at risk groups, young people who have been out of work and school for a long time. The evaluation also calls for greater use of alternative training measures, with a wide range of work practices. These are matters that should be followed up. In particular, the interpellant indicates that the practical letter scheme is being used to a small extent. As the Council of State pointed out, the Ministry has now, at the hearing, sent a proposal for this scheme to be an offer in all the counties of the country, in addition to regular vocational training. My home country, Rogaland, is one of the states that has been involved in the trial scheme with practical letters. NIFU’s evaluation of this scheme showed a surprisingly good implementation among the students who were in it, taking into account that many of the participants had a low level of basic and high levels of absence, thus at risk of falling out of secondary education. For our part, the left has programmed that we will increase the use of both practical letters and the apprenticeship system in order to obtain more tailor-made secondary education. It is positive to have vocational and professional training schemes that provide flexibility so that they can be adapted to the individual student and thus contribute to reduced non-response.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1824	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate and many good contributions that have gone into concrete detail on what is actually being done when a student has arrived that he or she falls from. I would like to mention a blog post recently written by one named André Askeland. It was turned up in the media that there were an incredible number who read it, and there were an incredible number of ‘likes’. I think it was at least 200,000 readers. He wrote something that we should also think about: although many people come back after a few years, that is, they have dropped education and returned perhaps 5-10 years later and managed to resume some subjects, he describes how heavy it is, how terriblely stupid and hopeless it was that he fell from, how bad it has been in those years, and how many opportunities he has been able to miss. That's why we also have to think about the lost years when we might comfort ourselves that the decline to the seventh and last does not become 30 pst. There are many who labor unnecessarily for many years. One of the high schools that I've visited to talk about this is a school that has to accept all of the grades, because the characterization is the same at school. In other words, students who are entitled to go to high school but who do not have grades from high school, etc., and who are weak, for example. in Norwegian. What this high school says is that they want to establish a much closer cooperation with the high schools from which these students come, in order to put measures there. They also demand the possibility of having an additional year, so that students can be able to start high school, because they are simply not able to do it. It has to end with non-response. So a bigger room of action between high school and high school points out. One of the schools that I know is the most in the fire line and the most vulnerable to apostasy and this problem, has now chosen not to report the drop-out of 70-80 students, who are actually drop-out students, but because they have had Nav contact and have built up a device, they have chosen to work with these students from school. They say it's very resource-intensive, but they think there's a greater hope that they'll be able to come back, that they'll always have the opportunity to get new chances, that they can do better packages, and that you'll be sure to cooperate better around the students. So I think it is nice that we should get a job from the Council of State, with an implementation plan or strategy. I don't remember right now exactly what the council called it. All that has been said here about the need to build up special efforts around the individual student, is very useful, because they will have different needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1839	First, thank you again to the representative, Mr Bøhler, who addresses an important topic. So I would like to mention that in Larvik, there is a high school -- who otherwise won Queen Sonja's school prize -- that has done just that, as if they had got a lot of high school students who really didn't get any of what happened at high school. It was very often because they were not there, because they came from another country during the high school course. In any case, you have the right to attend high school after completing high school or primary school in Norway, no matter how long you have been there. They gave secondary education in cooperation with the county and the municipality of this secondary school. It was an experiment, and they had to look for the Education Directorate almost every year to get it done. The Education Directorate was skeptical because this was against laws and regulations. So what do we do? Well, we're changing the laws and regulations. This will now be allowed, and not only allowed, it will also be encouraged. This may well also be relevant to the school that Bøhler is talking about. Send a written question about it, if it's interesting to explore further. So we know that the most important thing to do something about the dropout in high school is really two big things. One is the professional basis you have from high school – it is absolutely crucial. We also know that another major contributor is mental health problems in combination with not being given, for example. apprenticeship space. It is these crack points in the educational cycle that are the biggest problem. This is why, for example: health care is important, the health centre is important, and the level of knowledge in schools is also important. I will end the debate. With the risk of pulling up the temperature one more time, there's only one thing, which I don't want to say I got annoyed about, but which I need to underline. It is that the central party several times in this hall says that the government does not follow up on the professional level. Then you're never concrete. First of all, I wonder – this can also be sent as a question: What part of the professional career is it that they lack follow-up? Because not only do we follow up on everything, we reinforce it. We have just launched a professional teacher's lift, a scholarship scheme to recruit more professionals. Last year, the majority of the parties launched a scholarship scheme to qualify non-teacherally qualified students in school, by providing more organisation for poorly started apprentices, by introducing an enhanced apprenticeship clause. We set up a full review of all programmes and lines in secondary vocational schools to ensure that they are adapted to the needs of the labour market, we have changed the rules of time so that it is easy for all states to have the exchange model and use it, we have increased the apprenticeship grant that stood silent year after year, now it is increased in the budget by budget, and we have announced that we will cut the gap between youth and adult education – to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1852	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1866	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1873	I would like to thank the great representatives Karin Andersen and Kirsti Bergstø for raising an important debate in Stortinget, and I would like to thank the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. It is important that the rules of Nav are understandable and considered reasonable by the users. If the distance between bureaucracy and the individual citizen becomes too large, it will weaken the basis of our common well-being and create unnecessary confusion and unnecessary conflict. While Nav should have a wide room of understanding and not least room to find reasonable solutions in the individual case, clear rules are important. It creates justice for the individual citizen, it ensures that the Nav assessments do not become too many and resource demanding, and it prevents undue discrimination. In the kind of issues that proposers point to, i.e. issues that are not about social security fraud, but about minor errors, there must be reasonable proportionality between errors and penalties. So to the concrete proposals that will be put forward in the Document 8 proposal and also here in the Chamber today. In the case of proposal No: 1, greater Nav's room is requested to take skin-based assessments on issues that are not out of date social security fraud. In the example referred to in the proposal for a representative, a Nav user has passed the exemption threshold for disability pension because of the undeclared tax benefit from insurance. These are small sums. At the same time, Nav does not have the ability to ignore pensionable incomes that write off tax advantages, and one might wonder where this limit might have gone. The Committee stresses that it is the responsibility of the social security recipient to provide the correct pensionable income. When a combination of work and social security, which is definitely a goal to achieve the most possible, it is not to be avoided that one in some periods could receive higher income than expected. Paragraphs 22-16 of the Swedish Social Security Act provide that over-payments may be expected to be made in return for future payments. In the case of persons combining work and social security, income-related benefits may therefore be seen as a temporary benefit up to the end of the term. The aim of the scheme is to provide a beneficiary who has not given the necessary notification of revenue, like one who has actually complied with the notification obligation. The reduction in performance should be the same if one would prevent undue discrimination. An incorrect payment may also be recovered under paragraphs 22 to 15, where, depending on the degree of cancellation, one may recover all or part of the amount. Here, Nav has the possibility to not refund the payment entirely if the amount is less than four times the legal fee, for the time 3440 kroner. The majority in the Committee have not been able to endorse the proposal and believe that Nav has adequate frameworks to take its assessments today. When it comes to proposal No. 2, ask the proposers in practice to avoid cases of minor errors for the 2014 income year. Although the intention is good enough, there are several problematic aspects to it. Firstly, with such a change, it would not be possible to adapt to the new legislation, since it will only apply for the last year after the default reform in practice. Secondly, it is reasonable to interpret the proposal in such a way that it primarily applies to those who have, for various reasons, exceeded the exemption. Providing some form of amnesty in such cases may result in a rapid and unreasonably discriminatory approach to those who have remained within the framework of the legislation. What are known as minor errors that should be included is not specified in the proposal, but if, for example, a threshold of 200 kroner is given, the amount of free will in practice be increased by the same amount, and an excess of 201 kroner may be equally untimely. The plurality of the Committee understands that individuals may find it difficult to pay back due to minor errors, and we are pleased that one with a new disability from 1 January this year has a regulatory framework that does not give less excesses the same serious consequences, in view of reduced inadequacy. It is one of many good aspects of the bad reform that makes it easier to combine work and social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1903	The rapporteur has explained the matter well, but I still feel that there is a need to make some comments that the Labour Party has chosen to follow the majority here. We share the view of the proposer that the Nav legislation operates within, is not always as easy to understand for everyone, and that the consequences of providing insufficient information on their own income ratios, etc. may be perceived as unreasonable. These are in particular cases where users have contacted Nav for help in filling out difficult forms and have received answers they have not fully understood, or have simply received incomplete or incorrect answers. This may happen, even if employees in the first line are striving to do a good job on behalf of the users. In the User Part of the 2015 Builder Survey from Diffi Report 2015:6, users of different public services were asked three questions that concern exactly that theme: First, if users seem to provide employees with the necessary information, second, if employees do what they can to ensure the rights of users, and thirdly, about the ability of employees to inform users about their opportunities. Nav’s users were partly satisfied, but Nav’s answers to the three questions were worse than the other services included in the survey. The responses were the same in the 2013 survey. The user's experience should then be taken seriously. There may be many underlying reasons, both in terms of operation and legislation. However, we have doubts as to whether there is even greater discretion in the case of mispayments of benefits, or the setting of new limits on the amount of money, which is the answer to those challenges. Errors will still occur. There will always be borderline cases. It must be better to put clear expectations to the government and the Nav that feedback on missing or incorrect information to users is taken seriously and that improvements to the ability of employees to provide good guidance and correct information must be a priority area for the ongoing operation of the Nav. We are pleased that a joint committee has supported a joint comment on the importance of Nav's obligation to provide guidance under Section 21 of the Swedish Social Security Act and Section 11 of the Administrative Act. It says not only that one has an obligation to answer questions, it also says that users should receive the guidance they need, if necessary on the Nav's own initiative. The civil officer has previously stated that this has not always been the case. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the example used in the draft representative. A person receiving inadequate information from Nav exceeds the amount of income free of disability benefit. There are significant consequences both in terms of repayment and in terms of future income. There are several such cases, even after errors on the part of the employer. If that were still the rule, we should have done something about it. But with new dissatisfaction, such situations will not arise with such great consequences. Proposal No. 2 from SV suggests correcting such errors from time to time before new misappropriation was introduced. It is only possible to do for the year 2014. It would also be perceived as unfair. The Workers' Party therefore supports the inclusion of the proposals in the Protocol, but also expects the Council of State to note that a unanimous committee attaches great importance to the fulfilment of the management's obligation to provide guidance in the manner required by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1922	This case concerns Nav and whether Nav should be able to make professional and discretionary judgements in cases where there have been minor errors that are obviously not social security fraud. So in this case, there's a principle side, a discretionary exercise, and a practical side up against those who are affected by this, and their economy. Nav manages significant amounts of money in a year, and it is very important that the payments made are correct, based on non-discrimination, and that they are paid in a timely manner. At the same time, each person has an independent responsibility for the correctness of the amounts paid and for new information that may have consequences for amounts paid to Nav's knowledge as soon as possible. Nav makes daily judgements based on laws and regulations. These assessments are based on delegation but also on clear limits on what can be delegated. Proposalers have a good intention with the proposal submitted to the Stortinget, but at the same time it is important to limit the exercise of discretion. Each shall be treated equally within reasonable limits and within the discretion of the case handler. At the same time, applicants for benefits have an obligation to provide information and information on their current situation, so that there are no mispayments due to a lack of information about the applicant. It is therefore necessary to stress that universal arrangements must pay particular attention to non-discrimination, which discretionary considerations do not always take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1935	We've all heard of cases where individuals stick their heads in a bureaucratic wall – yes, many of us know people who have stuck their heads in the bureaucratic wall. Some of us have also put our head in the same wall. Unfortunately, it is often the case that individuals feel that the rules for payment of aid are so complicated that they themselves make mistakes without wanting to do so. Sometimes you don't understand what's really needed, sometimes you don't understand how to inform about your own situation, and sometimes you might have tried to get help and guidance, but then the guidance has become misleading, and you've made mistakes. The thing we're dealing with today is actually a classic thing about how we should make it as simple as possible for individuals who are being hit. In fact, some people are also punished for not understanding complicated rules. I see that the main idea of the proposal could have come from the Progress Party. That it's come from another party, and that an overall big-time committee is behind a lot of content, tells us that we all have a heart for individuals. We understand that it is unreasonable to have to pay back money when it is all due to some kind of mistake or misunderstanding that you have not been able to understand that it was wrong. Fortunately, there are already homes for Nav today to show judgement in most such cases, and then it's probably most of a question if Nav is good enough to use these homes. Many suggest that they could use them more often or dry to do it more often. Employees might want to rely on their own reasonable attitude. It should be more often that people meet with a positive and open attitude without suspecting that they have done wrong on purpose when something like this has happened. We know that you're innocent until the opposite is proven. That being said, there are unfortunately also cases where there is a legitimate suspicion of attempted fraud. In some cases, it is clear that the individual should have understood it himself and asked questions about what is happening, for example. payments are too large. In such cases, errors still have to and shall lead to penalties. Actually, Nav should be better at deploying resources against those who actually try to cheat the systems, while those who inadvertently make mistakes need to avoid unnecessary sanctions. Exercising good judgment in both of these cases will make life easier both for the employees and for the individuals concerned. Finally, the Progress Party cannot participate in SV's proposal for a further basis for discretion in such cases. SV's proposal is obviously populistic, all the time it's already provided for by law and regulation to show discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1950	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate so far, and for the fact that the Committee shares the SV's problem description, if we do not necessarily share our views on the solutions. I would also like to address the SV's proposal in the matter. We get all the requests from individuals, to which several people have referred, and I experience that many of the requests you receive come after meeting with a system that manages legislation, often Nav. The review tone is that individuals would like to have an understanding of the legislation, but still difficult to understand its application in its particular situation because it is perceived to have an unfair impact. The representative proposal we are discussing today has its background in a person who lost a lot of money and who felt stamped as a social security no intention of doing so. History is by no means unique, and it tells something about the rigidity with which a law can meet people. That is why we have chosen to raise the matter through the proposal. Nav has a practice today that allows users of Nav to make small mistakes that are obviously not social security or try to do so, to cause considerable economic losses and unnecessary work for both Nav, the Board of Appeal and the Social Security Court. The proposal we are discussing today aims to get a political clarification that Nav should have a framework in these cases in order to be able to use judgement that is for the benefit of its users. We believe that this is important for the trust in Nav. The aim is also that Nav waives the requirements of this type of case for those covered by the previous disability pension legislation before the introduction of new disability benefits in 2015. We believe from the SV that it is more reasonable for someone to receive fair treatment than for everyone to experience unfair treatment in similar situations. Then I see that the majority of the committee does not see the same need for more discretion in order to be able to easily clean up matters that are obviously not social security fraud, but errors, miscalculations or lack of information or guidance. It's searchable, because in SV's view, there's still a need for a clean-up. Nav’s circular to § 12-12 Reassessment of the disability rate, which was last amended on 20 May 2014 by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, refers to two different legal decisions on similar matters. The different outcome of the cases shows that there is not necessarily a clear legal understanding of how such cases should be dealt with. Nav chooses to deal with a judicial decision that does not allow for the use of the option contained in the concept of reassessment. We believe that the room for discretion should be larger. We believe that it would ensure better resource use, more efficient management and improved many people's meeting with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1967	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1970	Let me first say that I initially agree with the proposers that it is important for Nav to show discretion and flexibility, but especially within the labour-oriented measures, in the area of social assistance. It is important to help people to work, to use the tools in the toolbox in a good, correct and flexible way. However, what this proposal is about is that the income protection systems are reflected in the social security system. And then I think an important principle that you're going to apply is that equal things are treated the same way. I record that the representative Bergstø says that with more judgement we would achieve greater justice. I think, unfortunately, that the opposite would happen, that you could get the same things that had been treated differently, and that you had seen different conclusions around the country. That is why it is important to have a good code, a sound code, which is good practice, and that is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee has come to grips with what has been done. Then it's also important, I think, what others have been about, among other things. Representative Dag Terje Andersen, that Nav is good and clear in terms of the obligation to provide guidance. Learning from user experiences is important. For this reason, we have also undertaken to have a user message in the future to see developments in user satisfaction, to learn from what comes from users, to make services better in Nav all the time. That is why we are also working on a comprehensive review of the report of the Vågeng Committee. There are three things that I'm very concerned about there, first of all: how are we going to make sure that we can better help people into working life? The second is: how are we going from red tape reform to user reform? And how are we going to get more authoritative Nav offices locally, which can take the good guidance tasks and provide proper help at the right time to a greater extent than what you've been able to do now? There are tasks that we are in the process of doing, and on which we have a high focus, and we are submitting a message for the Storting in the spring of next year. Then I just want to say that I have a great deal of understanding for people who believe that they have provided information in good faith, people who believe that you have not received the guidance and help you should have wanted to do things right. I would like to remind you that for this very reason it is important that we, both from my side, and also from the department, keep the pressure that the obligation to provide guidance is done in a good way. At the same time – as the rapporteur was also involved – there is room today for some discretion in the cases where there have been mispayments, where he has not at all been responsible for the mispayment, but has provided correct information, and where there has been errors in the proceedings. In this case, the amount may be less than four times the legal fee – it should probably amount to approx. NOK 3440 – to be surrendered or not collected. So you have that kind of discretion in those kinds of things, and it's also handled by Nav. Nav focuses on it and wants to make the most of the right decisions for individuals. But I understand that many people feel a certain frustration. At the end, I am very pleased with the position of the majority in the Committee. I think it is very crucial in terms of the income insurance system, that there are clear boundaries, that equal issues are treated equally, and that there is a good code on it. In this respect, new disadvantages have also led to a reduction in many of the old issues that were up and that there have now become much more flexible schemes, where you can combine work and retirement or disability in a much more flexible and better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1983	No one has asked for the word in reply. So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e1989	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2066	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2076	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2084	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that students who need it are quickly offered additional training, so that all those who require it have satisfactory basic skills in reading, writing and billing before the end of the 2nd stage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2108	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present an early school effort case, with particular emphasis on literacy, writing and accounting skills. The case must include suggestions on how to ensure that the necessary assistance and resources are deployed early in the training course, cf. training law § 3-1.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2139	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Lasse Juliussen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the end of spring 2016 to present a plan for the gradual introduction of a school meal in primary school. The school food system shall be financed from the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health, as part of public health.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2163	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case on how to introduce a school meal offer in primary school, funded and justified as a public health measure. The case must point to different options for financing, organising and equipping the school meal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2223	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2231	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe and, where appropriate, necessary proposals to enable Nav to make professional and discretionary judgements for the benefit of users in cases where minor errors have occurred that are obviously not social security fraud.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Nav avoids minor errors, which are not social security fraud, for those covered by the previous disability pension legislation before the introduction of new disability benefits in 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-11-10.ana.ud37e2343	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
