ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e130	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Øyvind Bjorvatn died on 9 February, near 84 years old. He represented Left and East Agder from 1965 to 1973. In 1972, after the split of the Left, he was in and formed the New People's Party, later the Liberal People's Party. He was in charge of the new party from the beginning, as Vice President from 1972 to 1974, and from 1982 to 1986 as Chairman. At Stortinget he was a member of the Church and Education Committee and of the Transport Committee. Bjorvatn started his political career in local politics. He was in the municipal government in the home town of Tvedestrand for two periods from 1963. He also made significant efforts in the party organisation both in the Left and the Liberal People's Party. He was a member of the central government of the Left and was also the head of the East-Agder Left. As a great representative, he was a very important spokesman for his state, always committed to individuals, to business start-ups, and to railway and road planning. He was also the head of the Regional Committee for Agder and Rogaland in the 1970s. He put great emphasis on maintaining close contact with the voters. On Saturdays he had office day in his constituency, where he accepted voters who had something on his heart. Øyvind Bjorvatn took the teacher's school degree in 1954, and became cand.philol. in 1962. He worked as a teacher at different schools from 1954 to 1965. Also after the period as a staggering representative he returned to the school, this time as a lecturer at high school in Arendal and Tvedestrand. He was also a farmer at the Berge farm in Holt, which he took over in 1956. Bjorvatn was also a highly valued local historian, and he was chairman of Dypvåg, Holt and Tvedestrand Historischeslag for 21 years. He received the cultural prizes of Tvedestrand Municipality and East-Agder for his local historical authorship. From his retirement, there was at least one book signed by Øyvind Bjorvatn every year until the 80th anniversary. He also received the King's Medal of Merit. Øyvind Bjorvatn had a rare good ability for cooperation and inspiring leadership. He was an invaluable initiator with solid implementation. He made a sympathetic impression on everyone he got in touch with. He will be remembered as a politician, a writer, a historian, a speaker and a debater. He was a community builder of the rare, and in 2009 the Mølledemen was renamed Øyvind Bjorvatn's place in the middle of Tvedestrand. Bjorvatn had two sons with his wife Marit. We bring peace to Øyvind Bjorvatn's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e151	The representatives Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Sveinung Rotevatn and Martin Henriksen, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. Two permit applications are available: – From the representative of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on care leave from 28 April to 11 May. – From the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen on leave from 28 April to 30 April to take part in the mission of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to North Norway. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Finnmark County, Laila Davidsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Finnmark County: Hans-Jacob Bønå 28-30 April. For Troms County: Siv Elin Hansen 28 April-7 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e201	Hans-Jacob Bønå and Siv Elin Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e209	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, has asked for the floor to withdraw a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e212	With this, I would like to draw from the undersigned’s proposal 8:94 S for 2014-2015 to introduce up-to-date assessments prior to the expulsion of asylum seekers. The theme of this proposal has been taken care of in Innst. 238 S for 2014-2015 that long-term asylum seekers sent out in the period from 1 January 2014 to today shall have their cases re-tested. It shall be dealt with by Stortinget later this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e217	The notification by the representative Rasmus Hansson that those proposals have been withdrawn is taken into account. The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e223	I am delighted to make suggestions on the lifting of competences in kindergarten and suggestions on the introduction of a free school meal in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e228	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e231	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on a responsible and solidarity policy on gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e236	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e239	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure a permanent compensation scheme for the victims after the disaster reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e244	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e260	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e267	I will present the unanimous vote of the Presidency on a proposal from the representative of Lundtägen to use the Basic Law § 75 h as a basis for the Grand Duchy President to call new state councils in writing for consultation in Stortinget on any ties of interest to the former profession. A unanimous presidency believes that we should be able to expect government councils to make decisions on a factual basis – based, of course, on the policies of their party and government – and that the use of §75h can actually fool Storting’s control function. The size exercise control in retrospect. Now there are correctly shared views on how to ensure or exercise control, and a proposal that government councils can be required to disclose information about contracting entities in order to detect or avoid uncertainties about hidden bonds, the Storting shall deal with the next case on the current map. There's another split setting; here we are unanimous. It is a condition to summon someone under the Basic Law § 75 h that the notice relates to a state case. If the Stortinget has taken a decision to convene, the Rules of Procedure of Section 49 of the Rules of Procedure shall be complied with. The obligation to meet and explain pursuant to § 75h is very extensive. It takes precedence over the obligation of professional secrecy or instruction and is also subject to criminal sanctions. The Presidency assumes that compulsory convocation under the Constitution § 75 h can only be relevant in cases which must be described as exceptional in the light of a thorough assessment of the gravity of the case and the need for information for control purposes. As you know, Stortinget has chosen to use other and more appropriate tools to obtain the necessary information. The high threshold and the caution to exercise the right of appeal are illustrated by the fact that the Storting chose to use it only three times earlier — the last time in 1933. The proposal of the representative assumes that pursuant to the Basic Law, § 75 h can be called with the support of a minority consisting of as few as six representatives. Although the proposer clarifies that the size of the minority could be discussed, he believes that it would be fundamentally wrong to require majority voting. The Presidency does not share this view, and believes, contrary to the proposer, that it would be fundamentally objectionable to give a minority the opportunity to carry out a coercion pursuant to the Basic Law § 75 h. Our starting point is that such a decision must be triggered by a decision of the majority of the Grand Duchy. The Fröyland Committee, which, in 2002, examined the control of government and administration of the Storting through Document No. 14 for 2002–03 assessed inter alia: whether the right to require consultation under Section 75(h) should be granted to a minority of the representatives, e.g. One-third – that is to be said. In fact, the Freuland Committee discussed this issue. However, I would like to stress that the sample assumed that the Constitution does not prevent it, but they considered that there is no need for it. That's what the Freyland Committee concluded. Let me also briefly mention that stability assessments of the functioning of the Councils are carried out in each department, according to the Stability Regulations of the Administrative Act and corresponding principles. This is the great awareness of, and there are good and reassuring routines in this area. It is – and must be – the responsibility of the Councils to assess their own stability. In this respect, the task of the Grand Duchy is to control the decisions of the Councils, including their being taken on the correct formal basis and in line with the decision of the Grand Duchy. Against this background, the Presidency believes that it would be unfortunate to use the right of appeal under Section 75h of the Constitution in the context proposed in the proposal for a representative. Finally, I find that there is disagreement among lawyers on this matter, or this principle, and the use of § 75 h. Some are for, some are against, some even believe that it will be unconstitutional. But a united presidency does not want such a system. It can actually be said so simply. We simply believe that the whole control function of Stortingen will be tossed over, and we will of course be voting against the proposal put forward by Mr Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e284	It's not every day that we get a proposal of this kind that simply challenges some principles in our state form. So you could look at it very pragmatically and say that it's not a majority for the proposal. However, I will not let it go uncommented, especially when it is presented by the representative Nybakk – who is a member of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy – that if this proposal could be accepted, it is almost the majority's will in this Chamber. That is not, for the very reason that the proposal involves delegating an authority not owned by the Stortninget to the Presidency of the Stortingen to impose a meeting obligation on already acceded state councils to explain itself on specified criteria. It is therefore believed that the impact of the Basic Law § 75h can be extended by amending the Storting’s Rules of Procedure. This is constitutional mistreatment. Then you have to take it a little carefully, even if you can see that fortunately there is no political majority for such a proposal, because I think the Stortinget should have some order in his papers – a little order in his thoughts and reasonings – when it comes to activating a constitutional home like the one we have in Section 75h. In accordance with the Constitutional Act § 75 h, the right of appeal is generally referred to in the Constitutional Law in connection with the control means of the Storting. This provision was originally designed specifically to enable members of the Government to reply to the Storting. The rules must be seen from their historical background before the introduction of parliamentaryism as a constitutional principle. Its practical role as a tool in the control of the government of the Storting has now almost disappeared. The last time Stortinget exercised this right to convene was in 1933 when Minister Wedel Jarlsberg, Norway's envoy in Paris, was called to explain the secret negotiations with Denmark in preparation for the Greenland affair. It would, of course, be impracticable to launch a large apparatus to elucidate instability issues or other issues which should be publicly known or accessible and which, according to the administrative provisions of the Act, already have a separate responsibility to problematise and deal with under its own responsibility. So it's just a support. If we now take the proposals and the proposal in the best possible sense, then one can say that the only thing you can achieve is that the Stortinget helps in the proceedings that are not really the Stortinget, but the individual Council of State, has some responsibility for. In legal literature, there is not much disagreement about this. It is generally assumed that access to summoning a Norwegian citizen must be exercised by Stortinget itself, i.e. that the right cannot be delegated, for example: to a Grand Committee. To this end, an explanation has to be given during a plenary meeting in Stortinget, as it is not allowed to summon the person concerned to other underlying wholesalers. There is therefore no need to reinterpret the constitutional provision so that the right of appeal can be delegated to a Grand Committee. In practice, much simpler forms have also been found to meet the essential needs that could be expected to be met by the Constitution § 75h. Since the proposal refers only to an obligation to explain itself to the Storting, it is probably not the intention of the author of the proposal that the Stortinget, as one of our state powers, should draw operational conclusions from the information it is believed to have produced in this way. Something else would shift the current division of functions between the state powers and make the Stortinge an accomplice, post facto, after the Council of State and the Secretary of State have been appointed by the King of the Council of State. Such a principle of innovation cannot be adopted without the support of new constitutional provisions. If the proposer wishes to follow up this idea, he must, as a representative, make an ordinary constitutional proposal to that effect. If the Storting is to serve solely as the venue for a questioning, triggered by a handful of representatives, it would be easy to imagine that such an institution would be less marked by a genuine and factually justified need for control, but the greater the scope of a more ordinary political self-marking, so as to question the integrity of individuals. As a result, the result will be completely different from the expressed wish of the proposers to strengthen confidence in policy. Then to the wording of the proposal itself. The call basis is unclear. It says, ‘unlucky interest bands, if any’. It is a very difficult criterion to work with as a rule manager, especially when left to a small minority – six representatives it is suggested by the proposer – and defined as an intervention center for a forced explanation. There is reason to believe that such a loose consultation theme on what would be unlucky ties of interest would, in practice, give such a minority an almost unlimited access to the use of a constitutional provision at their discretion. However, it is crucial that the proposal, if it were real, would change the material content of the Basic Law’s stated rules of competence in order to apply the Basic Law §75h. It is again, to clarify it, only the Storting itself who can decide to use the basis of the Basic Law § 75 h, and that by majority decisions. The proposal clearly contradicts the general principle of the Constitution that plenary decisions are taken by a general majority. The proposal is also incompatible with the Delegation Bar of the Basic Law which is intended to prevent the Storting from passing on its decision-making powers to others. A delegation of the Storting's application of the Basic Law § 75 h to any minority would be an even greater deviation from the current rules of competence of the Constitution. In any case, the content of the proposal is in our view, and fortunately also after the view of a massive majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has expressed its opinion on the proposal, that an extension of the scope for the application of the Basic Law in this way will not be based on our Constitution. Now one must also consider that the Basic Act § 75 h works together with the law of August 3, 1897. In contrast to the usual hearings — where invitations are issued and where it is voluntary for the participants to attend — the law of 3 August 1897 no. 2 a detention centre to obtain Norwegian citizens to meet in matters of state affairs. In short, the proposal is also a materially useless provision if we think for a moment that the Storting will go into the proposer's premises and ignore the other obstacles I have mentioned. It is therefore an elementary constitutional law that a rule at the constitutional level cannot be changed by the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. Constitutional provisions may be amended only in accordance with the specific procedures and the general requirement of a majority of two thirds, as set out in paragraph 1. Article 121 of the Constitution. For reasons set out above, the Constitution itself precludes the adoption of the proposal with that content. I had probably also seen – and the Committee expressed its opinion on the presidency – that this had been highlighted in the vote in the draft decision. It is clear that a proposal contrary to law and to the principle of the Fundamental Law should have had a form of decision which was rejected. We might notice another reason that we're thinking more closely through that side. I am at least very pleased that the political majority is present to put this matter aside, but I think this matter implies so important aspects of our state custom that I wanted to explain this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e312	In principle, it is a weakness when representatives have to use as strong words as the representative Tetzschner now did – ‘constitutional mistreatment’, ‘contradicts law and law and the principle of fundamental law’ – without constitutional evidence. The background to the proposal is that transitions from advisory firms and others. to policy peaks may become more common over the years to come. The solution to the problems that are then at risk is not quarantined, as in the case of transition from government. On the other hand, a call for consultation in Stortinget may be used to clarify whether an adverse interest relationship is linked in a previous profession. Such a scheme could have been used to clarify questions about the roles of the Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug in First House before she became Minister of Agriculture and Food in Erna Solberg's government. The system may also have a preventative effect, in the sense that the Prime Minister is encouraged to take a thorough look at the past of the Council of State candidates. The home meal for compulsory convocation is provided in the Basic Law § 75 h: ‘It is for the Storting to require anyone to meet separately in matters of state affairs: [[...]] [[...]] There are few written legal opinions available in advance. Therefore, the Stortinget only needs to include the supplementary provisions in its Rules of Procedure in a separate paragraph entitled ‘Storting Hearing’ in relation to Section 27 of the Committee Hearings. The Rules of Procedure of the EEAS shall determine the number of respondents, the length of questions, the possibilities of justification, possible follow-up questions, etc. In practice, calling the entire government is not routine. Calls should only be made where there is a suspicion that there is an unfortunate link of interest related to the former profession. The right of appeal must be capable of being delegated to a minority of the Grand Duchy. If a majority is required, the party(ies) behind a majority government may prevent the coercion. Instead, the minimum is proposed, arbitrarily – I would like to emphasise arbitrarily – set to six representatives. This is the lower limit used in the Storting Rules of Procedure § 16. The interview is then organised as an open consultation in the main hall. The notice shall be notified in writing to the relevant State Council by the President of Stortinget. This happens since 14 working days – I stress 14 working days – after the government's composition has been made public. If the government changes as a result of the election result, the convocation is arranged after the date of the formation of the Storting. In order to distinguish private matters from ‘State affairs’, the control of a newly acceded State Council must be a matter of state. They will have an obligation to meet. Paragraph 74 of the Constitution, adopted after the national court in 1884, gave members of the Government the right to meet in the Stortinget to take part in the debates there. According to constitutional practice, it is mandatory for the Councils to meet. If the Council of State has concluded a private-law agreement that prevents him from providing information, such as: customer lists, this need not be a criminal offence. On the other hand, Stortinget must be able to assess the confidence of a Council of State which thus conceals further testing of its own stability. The use of the Basic Law § 75 h has been dealt with both administratively and politically. In 1951, the Ministry of Justice considered that the right of appeal could be delegated to a committee. In the winter of 1997, the Stortinget dealt with the same question in the so-called Furre case. In the first instance, the Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the Storting would use § 75 h of the Constitution for a compulsory convocation, cf. Inner. S. No 192 for 1996-1997. The proposal was rejected. The view of the majority confirmed by Torkel H. Aschehoug 100 years earlier: the right of appeal cannot be delegated to a Grand Committee. During the whole period after 1814, § 75 h was used only three times, last in 1933, where Minister Wedel Jarlsberg was called in. According to the experience of Professor of the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo, Fredrik Sejersted, the right of appeal in no other country is governed by its own constitutional law. The absence of equivalent provisions in other countries and the rare use in Norway, according to Professor Fredrik Sejersted, coincides with the fact that the right to invoke is a cross-check between interpellation and committee review. The considerations behind § 75h are taken care of in various ways around – in Denmark, in the Swedish Parliament, in the German Bundestag, the British Parliament and the American Congress. Overall, the considerations underlying Section 75h of the Norwegian Constitution have been addressed in several ways in these countries. From the presidency, it is argued that this could not be a concrete assessment of viability. It's not supposed to be. It is argued that there must be a prior approval. It's not that, of course. It is an assessment of what has happened and the majority of the control committee has recognised it. Notice according to § 75h is a comprehensive procedure, says the presidency. It is described in the proposal how one can do that. It shall be an exceptional instrument in exceptional cases, says the Presidency. Yes, the proposal is also worded like this. The Presidency further states that the obligation of explanation is very broad and takes precedence over the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by law or instruction. The answer is: If necessary, Storting may close meetings to ensure that they are taken into account. The Presidency states that a ‘State case’ — yes, a ‘State case’ — shall not apply to private matters. And then we come to the central point, namely the question of delegating the right of convocation to a minority in the Storting: Is it possible to put that possibility under the Basic Law § 75 h? What's interesting then is what the presidency says in the setting. That's where the presidency says that one ‘does not know that the issue of delegating the callee’s competence to a minority has been raised in the Storting in the past.’; The Presidency goes on to say that a ‘have noticed that Sejerstedt believes the Constitution hardly’ – I stress hardly – ‘closes so that the majority of the Stortinges can decide to include a provision in the FO that a qualified minority may require persons to be conscripted under § 75h’. And further, the presidency says that: ‘Even if it were to be considered that the majority of the Grand Duchy could be allowed to delegate to a minority either in general, for a certain area of activity and/or for a certain category of persons pursuant to Paragraph 75(h) to a minority, the size of the minority would have to be required’. Yes, fully agree – there may be requirements for the size of the minority. Then it goes on to say that the presidency assumes that six representatives are too few. And it could be a discussion, as I said. Finally, it says from the presidency that a believer «in any case, if it would be appropriate to consider a delegation of the convocation competence under § 75h to a minority in the Grand Duchy, this must be further investigated». This must be «examined» – it is the presidency's own proposal. That is why what comes from the majority of the control committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party, falls into a strange light when they say: ‘Delegation of the application of the Basic Law § 75 h by the Storting, to any minority, will be even greater deviations from the current rules of competence of the Constitution.’ It is therefore in a very strange light when Professor Sejersted says, as quoted, that the 'Grunn Act hardly shuts down so that the majority of the Storting can make such decisions.' What we are dealing with now is an extremely important matter, because we are facing a situation where there are more people who go from such advisory agencies and into political positions. It is then important that we clarify the stability ratio, and it is important that the Councils of State also have an opportunity to remove any doubt about bonds by explaining them in the Storting. At the same time, Stortinget will meet its information needs. When a State Council keeps customer lists hidden, this conflicts with the constitutional information obligation. The centre party would also point out that such a possibility of consultation could demonstrate how government councils perform stability assessments during their functional period – not least important. In the case of Listhaug, there is a stability assessment carried out in the department with which the Stortinget is not known. Finally, I would just like to say that the proposal put forward here is a proposal in time. It is a proposal that takes account of the reality we are now facing, namely the reality that more people go from such First House companies into central political positions, including state councils. Then it is important that the Storting modernises its Rules of Procedure, takes into account the reality and ensures that we have a trust that is in line with our People's Government. That is why the proposal has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e396	Does the representative of Lundteg wish to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e399	I should like to refer to proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e404	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has thus taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e409	There were a few moments in previous speakers' posts that I don't think we should completely ignore silence. One was that which is directed at the Council of State, Listhaug. First of all, I would like to make the observation that it might have been here that the cats escaped from the bag, because it is obvious that such a provision is something that seems to be able to use in a general suspicion of newly acceded states councils from parties with which they may not have such a large ideological community, so that they may have some doubts about their independence. So just that post was a pretense of what to wait about how such a provision could be used by, for example. The six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-one group of the centre party. There is also reason to recall that the Administrative Act applies to the government. It is a great responsibility to assess whether a person has a combination of roles or is in a party relationship or otherwise in a contrast that makes it appropriate to withdraw. That's what we have the rules of intrusion for. In this context, the assistance provided by the sizers, at least with the instruments proposed by the proposer, would misunderstanding the responsibilities. Finally, when one calls out one's own proposal to be consistent with time: Yes, it must be if one is willing to break two basic principles upon which our Constitution rests, with great respect for one lawyer, who may have been taken out of his context in this debate. First, the two principles are that the Constitutional Provisions in which the Storting exercises its powers cannot be delegated to anyone other than the Storting itself. The second is also a constitutional principle. That is the principle of legality. Here, the debate has harmed – not deliberately, I hope – to embarrass with the consultative institute that has been added to committees, where the minority of the Committee of Constitution and Control can also initiate hearings. But it has a voluntary character, it's an invitation, while this right to call is combined with criminal provisions that will be extending duties for Norwegian citizens. This cannot, therefore, be done through an addendum to Storting's Rules of Procedure. It has to be done by ordinary law, and then constitutional provisions that stand in the way of the adoption of such a law have to be amended. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e418	Sylvi Listhaug's transition from the company First House to the State Council chair naturally led to great commitment and debate among the people most. Why did it do that? Well, because there were a number of examples of the customers that the current Councillor Listhaug had in First House, with whom she came in contact later in her position as Councillor. This led to a stability assessment in the department and in the government apparatus, a stability assessment that, as far as I am aware, is not known to the Storting. As a result, there are issues with which Councillor Listhaug gets a hold, with which she is incapacitated, but why Councillor Listhaug is incapacitated, the Stortinget is not familiar, and we are therefore not aware of why she is havoc in other, neighbouring matters. This is based on an incredibly central principle for the Storting, namely that there should be transparency, there should be transparency about what is acting by the state councils, and this will be seen by a great many as a major challenge. In such a proposal made by me, one could remove the doubts that lie in such matters, because one would be able to get the matter clarified in a debate here in Stortinget, which then comes for a period immediately after the Council of State has been appointed. Then we have the question of who has the competence to ensure such a change in our Rules of Procedure. Well, whoever has that competence is the majority of the Storting. The majority of the House can make such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. There is an assessment by Professor Fredrik Sejersted, where he says that the Constitution hardly closes so that the majority of Storting can decide to include a provision in the Rules of Procedure that a qualified minority may require persons to be conscripted under § 75h. That's the nucleus. The size has the full right to do so in a majority meeting, i.e. to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are amended on that point in order to be able to operate in the specific cases in question, and it will have a preventive effect – I would stress that too – so that it becomes more difficult to have such a transition, which will be an advantage for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e427	A brief statement from me on this, especially after the speech by the representative Lundtigen: I think it is necessary to make the clear indication that there is no disagreement between the majority and the minority in the position on this matter – not even on the part of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee – about the need for transparency. But I agree with what the representative Tetzschner has said that this cannot be achieved by the fact that a minority in the Grand Duchy goes beyond the provisions of the Constitution. That is why a majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs also joins a unanimous presidency, and that is where the disagreement lies. I believe that this debate has cleared up, and I found it necessary to say exactly these things, because there is no contradiction in this. But we cannot go beyond the understanding of the Constitution and correct it by correcting the Rules of Procedure. A professor's opinion in this context is not enough arguments or arguments that are heavy enough for us to join the representative Lundtigen's proposal – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e433	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e436	I am pleased with that clarification from the representative of Kolberg about transparency, because that is what is at the heart of the matter. In terms of transparency, we have to keep up with it in time. Some people call this an Americanization. Yeah, you can call it what you want, it's modernizing Storting's Rules of Procedure to take up the reality we're up against – to ensure transparency. That's what's behind it. Then the representative says Kolberg that we can't do anything here – where a minority disagrees with the understanding of the Constitution. No, that's not the case either. And it's interesting to see that a unanimous presidency ends with – on page three of the election – that in that case this must be «examined». It shows that this is a central topic, where the june is far from what the majority says. One is to the degrees uncertain, and here has an opportunity to modernise the constitution in the form of our Rules of Procedure, which should definitely be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e457	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e464	The proposal for a representative proposes that the State Councils and State Secretaries should have a legal obligation to provide the register of the duties and financial interests of the depositors, if any, of the contracting entities for which they have worked during the two years preceding accession, with a view to promoting political or commercial interests. Exceptions have been proposed for data subject to mandatory professional secrecy. I assume that the minority in the presidency itself will present its position on the agreement to the draft representative, with some adjustments. Let me stress that the majority of the presidency of course supports good and appropriate arrangements, with the aim of strengthening general confidence in politics. It is important for the legitimacy of our political system that people can have confidence that decisions at political and administrative level in central government are taken on a factual and unwarranted basis, without regard to personal interests or other external considerations. That is why we have a register of the responsibilities and financial interests of the aggregators, where government members also record similar information, and we have stability rules that the political management of the departments is required to follow. On the other hand, a registration obligation as proposed would be both inappropriate and problematic. In addition, it could restrict recruitment to policies from parts of the private sector, with a reduced transfer of key societal competences as an undesirable result. However, the problem with the proposal lies in particular that the registration system will affect the private third party, who has previously been the contracting entity of the relevant State Council or State Secretary, in an unacceptable way. We have to assume that very many of the tasks that will be subject to disclosure obligations under the proposal will be based on the confidentiality of the contract, usually linked to commercial or contractual relationships. A private actor who engages an external advisor to promote political or commercial views, in confidence that this relationship is to be confidential, must be able to act on that assumption. The disclosure of such a relationship could lead to unacceptable interference with the freedom of contract and could lead to claims for compensation. The majority cannot agree to a registration system which may have such consequences and believe that the representative proposal and the minority ignore this side of the case. When I have emphasized here the concern of the private third party, it is because the Presidency assumes that the transparency practices of contracting authorities will be implemented in accordance with the assessments expressed by the Civil Ombudsman in the so-called Listhaug case. There are other considerations involved in assessing the confidentiality of information when a public contract with a service provider is concluded, other than in the case of a contractual relationship between two private parties. It appears that the proposed representative is in favour of exempting any obligation of professional secrecy from any obligation to provide information on contracting entities. However, it is a problem that legal confidentiality, such as: lawyers are subject to, could result in any discrimination with regard to the registration obligation of the assignment, depending on the former profession of a Council of State or State Secretary. Such discrimination would also invite creative solutions to circumvent the registration obligation, which would thus not give a comprehensive picture of the real situation. Another aspect that the representative proposal and the minority seem to address is the regulatory challenges that would have to be addressed if the minority proposal were to be adopted. The majority believe that in an area like this precise rules will have to be required. We cannot have a registration system in which there is a continuing doubt as to whether or not a State Council has complied with its obligations, and where reference is made to the fact that this is something that is clarified by practice. Last, but not least, I would like to stress that the Stability Code imposes on the State Councils an independent responsibility to continuously assess their own stability in the matters they deal with, and that the relationship with any previous contracting entity will only be one among many assessment themes. The stability of political management in individual matters has been given a great deal of attention by the departments. The clear focus of the ministries on the stability of each State Council and other political management, as well as good procedures for dealing with problems of instability, ensures that decisions are taken on a factual basis, regardless of the professional background of each State Council or State Secretary. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e485	I agree with what the representative, Kenneth Svendsen, has just said to what this matter is really about. It is about the legitimacy of policy and trust in policy, because lack of transparency by state councils and state secretaries can rightly – and notably – note: or not properly – doubt the integrity of policy. In concrete terms, this proposal was based on the appointment of the Council of State Listhaug — and several State Secretaries — on the basis of an industry that was not willing to publish which contracting entities the Council of State previously worked for. I would say very seriously that I am not saying this with a view to pursuing a particular government council. The problem is not new; it has also been updated under what can be called our governments. We've had state secretaries in the past with the same background and with the same ties, but the appointment of a chief executive in a department without the public knowing which customers, or sponsors, she could have had ties to, updated the issue. That doesn't mean, of course, that there's a cause for concern, but we can't know that as long as there's no transparency about what bonds, or not bonds, a government council may have had when she joined. The proposers also have a different overall intention. It is to prevent developments in the commercialisation of policies. As long as we don't have a system that requires the individual State Council – or State Secretary – to disclose any bonds, we can't know if anyone can buy power and influence for their own benefit. It's serious, and it's necessary to make sure that it doesn't happen. What the proposers have asked themselves about is: how can this be resolved? Can it be legally resolved? Actually not - it can only be solved through transparency. Therefore, transparency about the commitments to be made by the authorities in Norway is the way in which it is necessary to address such developments. It would be important and right, not least for those who come in such a situation. The alternative is that there is a crossroads of suspicion over politicians or politics as such. The proposal for an obligation to provide information to governments on former contracting entities is to take new issues seriously when they appear. It's about being a modern, enlightened, and actionable magnification. Just as when the transition from policy to business was updated, when several government ministers and state secretaries went from government to industries and posts that would benefit from the insight given by a place in government, a separate body, the Quarantine Committee, was set up to deal with these issues and prevent undesirable effects by using instruments such as quarantine and bans. The question that must now be asked by the Storting is how to ensure transparency and control the other way, in particular with regard to it with decisive authority: the Council of State. Similarly, here in Stortinget, we have to try to find solutions that are easy to deal with and as simple as possible to practice. Therefore, a new legal provision must be based on confidence in the discretion of individual politicians. The present proposal has addressed these matters in a pragmatic and simple way by adding to the existing law, where state councils are obliged to register their duties and financial interests in it at all times the registration system applicable to depositors. I would like to address myself directly to the President and the members of the Presidency, because when we adopted these provisions, a unanimous presidency said that the purpose was to: ‘to increase the transparency of the financial links of representatives and members of the Government with, or duties of, organisations, companies, institutions, etc., in order to enable the public to know which conflicts of interest might arise’. [[...]] That's what it says to read. When this scheme was made compulsory by a unanimous majority, the reason was that: ‘The authority and integrity of the national Parliament was best served to remove any grounds for suspecting that representatives acted on hidden grounds’. [[...]] Exactly – that’s what this case is about, just that it’s about the opposite, that’s when you go the opposite way, from your working life, from civil activity, and into a government situation. I have to say that I do not understand – and I am using the parliamentary expression ‘I am sorry’ – that the majority of the presidency in this matter does not see the need to also close this gap, given the transparency and authority of the policy, and to ensure that the integrity of the Storting and the integrity of the policy are adequately maintained. So we don't have any other motives this time either. The purpose of the proposal is simply to update this law to apply to our own time in order to deal with the challenges of the past across the party divisions. The majority of the presidency, on the other hand, has chosen to focus on the problems and to interpret things in the worst sense in terms of the Stability Regulation. We have nothing to do with the rules on stability. There is no contradiction between the Stability Regulation and the proposal on the table, on the contrary, the Stability Regulation works well, but there is no transparency in the Stability Regulation. For state councils now, it is enough for Stortinget to provide a list to the ministerial councils that will be involved in assessing, in confidence, whether the Council of State is a havoc. But we don't know the list. If the majority of Britain's presidency is satisfied with that, I repeat the regret, and that the government is also pleased with it, I do not understand, because it is not necessary to achieve the necessary transparency. It is also stated by the representative Kenneth Svendsen, this with lawyers. It is true that there is a contradiction in that, and it is admitted openly, but adopting this proposal would at least be an important step towards greater transparency. Now we have no control over transparency, because the majority of the Storting will later today reject this by reference to the majority of the presidency and certainly also to the requests of the Constitutional Office. I think that is wrong, and we should not have made that mistake, because here we could have adopted something that would have done that we had come a while on the way without having collided, for example. with what is important, namely the right of lawyers to the obligation of professional secrecy imposed on them, which they at least have in a number of cases. So this is a proposal that intends to solve this problem, because with this proposal, we would at least give the public an opportunity to understand which customers a government council has had, and possibly has, a commitment to. And, having regard to what the representative Svendsen said, does it matter if a government council has worked for the pharmaceutical industry in secret before he or she becomes Minister of Health? Is it a matter for Stortinget? That shouldn't be it – not because there needs to be something wrong with it, but we should know that, and that's what the whole proposal is for. We're not looking for any special ones. We are looking to add one ale to the piece that needs to be added to create the necessary transparency and legitimacy of the policy and to prevent commercialisation – that the money should be able to ‘buy out’, also by reference to the secrecy of contracts. The Storting should stand over it and not accept it, even if it should go beyond what is called a third party. The overriding national considerations must be borne in mind. I shall deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e527	The representative Martin Kolberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e530	Previous speeches referred to solving the problem. It would have been beneficial if we could put this problem into practice and define it more precisely, for these conflicts of interest, we have quite a good experience for them to be adequately addressed through the sustainability rules that we have today. They now function on the condition that each official is responsible for assessing his/her position on the basis of all relevant factors that might weaken confidence in a decision to be made on a factual basis. So there's an internal information page, where, of course, the one that draws the limits of its own stability, is the one that also has a full view of the moments. It will never be possible for a public to see unless the overall monitoring society is implemented. And then it's an objective side, and that's exactly what the proposers claim to be out there for, that's what can weaken the general confidence that decisions are taken on a factual basis. Thus, with luggage, a code that is fully grown up for the real issues that exist, some representatives appear under the transparent «transparency», an openness that is actually reserved for competitors in the political picture, where it is almost problematic that you have made money, you have had customers, you have even been employed in a company and have not had customers directly, but the company has had customers. You run away without thinking about third-party interests. It has also been established in the past when discussing what, for example: is fully justified in keeping the public away from business secrets, strategic discussions and customer lists. It is explicitly mentioned in the Stortinget document. We could also imagine that the next one might have been attacking the principle of legal confidentiality, because then it's suddenly a problem. Then you just want to move on to the open-minded, still without showing that you're solving new problems, but you're trying to solve the problems where you're always going to be able to argue for so-called transparency. We can give a little challenge back to the Workers' Party: the Workers' Party has the tradition that it is not just the big group itself who decides which positions you are in favour of here in the Chamber. They have a different party tradition than the more liberal parties. Since we are so lucky to have a former party secretary on the Stortinget, now that we have excellent reputation as head of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, we can probably get many examples of the fact that the central government of the Norwegian Workers' Party has tilted the majority in cases where there has been disagreement in the Workers' Party's own big-time group. It should then be said from the same reasoning that it is such an important commitment to elected representatives that the public should, of course, have insight into what is happening in the central government of the Workers' Party. They should actually go for open meetings, so that the press could communicate to the public how the debates go in the forum that can actually decide the case in the Workers' Group and in many cases because of its size also in Stortinget. It would have been interesting. Then you can start without changing a single law – perhaps some of the statutes of the Workers' Party, but the way to change them must be much shorter than going the way of the Stortinget. It is true that, in the best way, the rule of law, we problematise legislative proposals promoted in the Stortingen by – to say – more party-political reasons. Without demonstrating that there is a great need for society, we also submit to it what effects it has on third parties who have not wanted to get neither their company name nor their customer lists involved in a political drawdown. Moreover, I can refer to the presidency's assessment under point 2.4, and point out that it has not been demonstrated that the ordinary procedures – those we have today – to counteract instability are insufficient. I think it must also be mentioned, since we are still somewhat opposed to the rules of the policy here, that it would also have dressed the proposers if they had reworded the part of the proposal that would require the government to design a regulation of a certain content. Under the law in force, the competence to provide detailed rules is conferred on the King of State Council by regulation. This means that this part of the proposal cannot be adopted in the present form. In conclusion, I would like to say that what might separate the two visions in this room is that, for someone, an excessive belief in procedures and procedures is emphasised that could push attention to the content. Because we agree that we have to have proper governance, we need to have sustainability rules, and we need to make sure that people do not judge on their own. But we have to make sure that belief in external forms doesn't get so strong that it takes away the individual representative's awareness of where you are and what you're going to be. As a result, this majority of rules for many who want to join the policy can also be a barrier. This could be detrimental to the recruitment of the policy, and therefore also to a weakening of confidence in the policy. And then there might be something of a ritual tribal dance, where the form becomes more important than content. Those who claim the great trust project for the population, I might recommend a couple of other fields to look at. They could look at the functioning of political life, the way in which they act, by pre-selling political results, for example. CO2 cleaning, using the full New Year's Eve to the Prime Minister on the moon landing, weakening expectations, and then a few years later ironing it all in secret. Speaking of transparency, you scrape it so that the voters don't get it until the election is a fact. And the bill has the taxpayers, as they always do, between 5 and 7 billion. kr, a little depending on how to assess the scrap value of the plant. There are also many other things you can do in your policy practice to strengthen confidence in politics in general. The road does not now comply with more detailed procedural rules. The road I think is actually going by someone thinking through their political practices, because the political trust that we're looking at can be threatened for entirely different reasons than lack of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e552	There is a general consensus that one should work to strengthen the general confidence in policy. There is a general consensus that one should work for transparency, so that there can be no doubt about the integrity of the policy. This is all in agreement, if the representative Tetzschner is probably on the edge of the consensus, I would say, when he refers to someone who does not want a monitoring society – as if someone here in this room or some political direction in this room would stand for such an outraged position. What's interesting is that despite the consensus on general trust and greater transparency, there are people who oppose practical measures. In this case, it is the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. If they vote by their weight here, the proposal will be defeated. As the representative Kolberg said, this is not a new issue, and I think the whole Stortinget should not at least be pleased that the red-green parties are addressing this proposal. That shows a maritime critical attitude, because with the exception of the transition to state councils, we have had many transitions that have implied state secretaries, and it has also affected my party, the Center Party. At that point, I fully agree with the representative of Kolberg that this is something that concerns most parties. It has been further updated by the innovation that took place in the government of Solberg, where a Council of State went straight from First House to the Council of State, which in my opinion is not desirable. The proposal is aimed at obtaining a legal basis in the Act on the Registration of Government Members' Roles and Economic Interests, where State Councils and State Secretaries are required to register former contracting entities where they have worked to promote political or commercial interests. These are examples from the pharmaceutical industry, examples related to the defence industry, which is a very delicate point, or examples related to the daily food sector, where Councillor Listhaug was – and is now – involved in his work. What's happening here is about big money, and it's a big secret, to change public laws or regulations. And I want to say that it's not the big changes in public laws and regulations that we have to face here, but the small changes – the devil lies in the details – where there are details that can determine what will be the framework conditions for business, and what individual companies can benefit from such a change. This is a work that takes place in secret, and when people who later have a central political role are involved, it is not surprising that the people are asking that the Storting should take action here. Then it's said that this could mean that it hits private. The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, said that private third-party hits. Yes, they can be hit, but what must be clear to the Storting is that transparency is above private interests. That's why it's clear. When he/she is willing to take on the ombudsman role of political leadership in a department, he/she must be aware of it. If your employer at First House or others is such that one cannot enter such a position, well, then one says no to go into it. What is important about the proposal is that it will have a great preventative effect. It will have a very great preventative effect, where one will end what I would call the obscenity that one goes from such company as First House to a Council chair or to other chairs. It is important to put an end to this, because it is an obscurity that can really challenge the fundamental principle of our democracy, namely transparency. The representative, Tetzschner, says that he should not have excessive faith in procedural rules and external formalities, that he should bet on his own responsibility. Yes, the Central Party fully agrees that a person should invest in the individual’s own ability to judge, but unfortunately there are a number of examples of people making boundaries. Yes, many of the most successful are the ones who make the limits the most, so that one is in a frontier country between what is law and what is illegal. That's something that we want to clarify here, so that there are clearer boundaries. The representative, Mr Tetzschner, then refers to the fact that confidence in politics is also linked to political practice. Yeah, I have to agree with that. I've read up on one of the personalities that have been most important to Norway in historical times, namely Hans Nielsen Hauge, lately. When he got so upset – he had a central function in West Fossen, so I'm very concerned about it – it came from one of his forms that priests too would be honest. That's something we can learn a lot from today. Political leaders must also be honest in their work, and I agree with the representative Tetzschner that it will be able to guarantee political respect to a far greater extent than today. The example of the capture and storage of carbon dioxide in Mongstad is thus a good example — it was a measure that did not have a chance of success because the assumptions for it were not there. Then it is wrong to present it as it was done under the then government. In this case, I'm going to say that time is working for us that represents the minority in this room. We're working to get a more informative and actionable magnification, because we'll get more examples in the same street as the Listhaug case if there's no change in this. And a stronger popular opinion is hoped to lead, in this case, to the Christian People's Party party – which is not present here in the Chamber today, which is not involved in the debate, but which is the party that will give the government a majority – perhaps become a little more responsive to popular flows in this respect. It is significant that the government is now running slump in Stortinget. In this case, the votes of the Christian People's Party, that is, without the Christian People's Party being here in the Chamber, argue why they will vote in favour of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e573	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e576	Let me begin by expressing a positive attitude towards this debate. I believe it serves the Storting to the credit that these questions are discussed, and that different points of view are broken. It in itself contributes to the strengthening of all of us on these important issues, namely how to avoid instability, and how to help maintain the high level of confidence that our citizens have throughout the political system and in political decision-making processes. This is about trust, and it's about avoiding instability. Infringement arises because of many different conditions, and the relationship with former contracting entities is only one of many relationships. Departments have a high focus on the individual stability of government councils. I am pleased that the representative of Kolberg expresses confidence in the way it is handled. Governments have an ongoing responsibility to assess their own stability in relation to the matters they deal with. A registration obligation proposed could enable the Storting and the citizens to discover the sustainability challenges, but the register will not be able to give an overview of the individual’s ties or say anything about the content of the mission of the Council of State. A register, regardless of its design, will never become anything more than a warning lamp that shows that there may be any problems with stability. The proposal also implies that economic conditions and commitments concluded as early as two years before accession will be subject to registration. As a background to the draft representative, the Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption, GRECO, has referred to its report on Norway. However, GRECO has not followed up the case or commented on it in more detail in its recommendations. Nor do I know that other Member States are practicing or have been asked to introduce transparency about closed financial interests, duties and bonds. So the representative proposal is not in line with the international standard or developments in this area. The representative proposal involves major interference in private relationships that, in my opinion, go beyond the positive effects in terms of increased transparency. Following the proposal, the obligation to disclose information shall be waived in respect of the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by law. However, the proposal requires the reporting of matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy arising from agreements and will therefore vary according to the profession from which the member of the government or the Secretary of State is recruited. Someone who comes from a law firm does not have to register their clients, while someone who has been involved in consulting has to do so. This illustrates that even with this proposal, there will be challenges related to the issues that the minority has wanted to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e587	First of all, just a comment on what the representative Lundteg said, which is perhaps a misrepresentation, namely that we should end that practice, for example. that the Council of State, Listhaug, had gone from First House to the government. I think it's a mistake, and in case I want to distance myself from it, because I don't mean it. But I believe we should know what the person has done, and this is not about First House. It's about all types of business, with the limitations that lie there. I'm just making a selection there, so it doesn't get suspended in the air. Then I would like to refer to what the Council of State Sanner just said. We don't get any insight into the content, says Sanner, so what's really happened before. No, but what about the registers adopted by the Stortinget for representatives and state councils? It says you're working there and there, but it doesn't say what you're doing. It's just parallel, and no one today is calling for the winding-up of the system that we have for big business representatives and state councils. There's not a word about it in the presidency's attitude. But this is what we're suggesting, you've become open the other way. I don't get what's the real reason, because it's always like that, and we say that in our attitude, as the Council of State now points out, everything here is not exactly perfect, but it's not with today's arrangements either. In terms of both the Stability Act and the practice of it, to which I have no comments, and the use of today's records, it is assumed that the individual Council of State and the individual authority are honest, as the representative Lundtigen says. There is no other provision attached to it, and that it is cited as an argument against introducing it, is just to make an argument, and nothing else. Then it remains at the bottom of the discussion to try to figure out why it is that the government parties, and actually also surprisingly enough the Christian People's Party, are opposed to it, but also the majority of the presidency, and that's the worst for me in the role I have here in the house. I have to say that quite openly here from the pulpit that it is the worst thing for me. I think this must be the case with the interests of third parties that must be the most important thing, so you want to protect the private, but you suddenly agree with the Civil Ombudsman that it is the public that must be published, but the private must be protected. And that the majority of the presidency puts it ahead of the openness and integrity of politics, I repeat regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e596	I would like to thank the Council of State Sanner for the approach he had, where the Council of State said that it serves the Stortinget to get this debate, and the debate to avoid instability is a debate about ensuring a high level of confidence in the decision-making processes. I sense that the basic plan of the Council of State here was a basic liberal attitude to transparency, and that the Council of State would probably want to go further, but that is not the way it is. What we're inside is that in terms of Storting's Rules of Procedure and the Bills that are passed, and taken, to say it that way, we're in deficit all the time, we're in deficit all the time in relation to what's happening in society around us. It's a creativity that's very great in terms of acquiring power and gaining economic benefits, and we're constantly in deficits in relation to the intrusive rules to get fair play in terms of the rules to apply. State Council Sanner said that the proposal provides no more than one registration, does not provide an overview of the bonds. No, the proposal has been searing its weaknesses, some of which is that we are constantly in arrears., The Council of State said it can't be more than warning lights. No, but warning lights are important. Warning lamps are very important, because it calls for, among other things. the attention of the press, and it will call for a greater degree of caution than the current one. It is said here that there is great interference in private matters, and the Council of State Sanner says that it will be a challenge when legal activities do not come under the proposal, while consultancy does. Yes, it's a challenge, it's the proposers aware of, but we've chosen to limit it that way, because there's good reason to do it. However, there is progress in ensuring that the consultants that are referred to, where First House is a good example, are included in the proposal, which is that the Stortinge takes a small step forward to ensure that a person does something better than what is today. Finally, I would like to say that there was no mistaliation from me that it is an obscurity. The fact that you go from, for example, First House and right into the Council of State chair is an obscurity that we should get away from. I am quite clear on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e615	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e629	I had almost said, including the background to this case from the previous presidency, what made the previous presidency ask for a review of the quarantine rules, was actually the then public debate, and it was in 2010–2011, about politicians who walked between the PR industry and State Council/State Secretaryships – yes, in fact, the situation that arose when representatives of the defence of the Storting had to join a permanent representative and were employed in a public relations agency. These were cases and situations that the party groups concerned handled in a very exemplary way, and they were about the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. During this period, i.e. 2010–2011, Left promoted a Document No. 8-proposals for the creation of a lobby register – they have also done so afterwards – but the proposal was then also sent to the then Presidency as a trade committee. In the unanimous vote on the proposal, the Presidency wrote the following: ‘The Presidency has noted that different rules have been laid down on quarantine and other restrictions for those moving between policy and advisory activities in some countries. This relationship is not covered by the present proposal, but quarantine arrangements are central to the regulation of the relationship between policy authorities and the advisory industry – also in relation to the public of such activities.’ Furthermore, the Presidency stated that the guidelines on quarantine were last revised in September 2009: ‘The Presidency considers it desirable to review the experience of the quarantine rules and to address the need for changes more widely. In the view of the Presidency, it is natural that the government itself should carry out such a review and that the matter should then be submitted to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. [[...]] So the big thing asked for the government to go through the quarantine rules. The question was also whether former politicians as part of the quarantine regulations would be subject to a temporary lobby ban in the political field they had been working with. Work on the matter has resulted in a proposal to legislate the quarantine rules. A unanimous presidency subscribes to this and to the proposition. The previous presidency was concerned with the political positions – let me stress it. However, the government has also included officials and officials in the bill, which may in fact be good grounds for doing so. Today's legislation consists of three sets of guidelines. We agree that these are merged and legalized. The government emphasises that legislation should contribute to confidence in the political system and in administration – an independent administration. At the same time, it is important that there are no unnecessary obstacles to the exchange of labour, skills and knowledge between different sectors of the labour market when drafting legislation. The two considerations are well balanced. The Quarantine Committee is a professionally independent body which, under the current regime, takes decisions on quarantine and bans on policy-makers. The committee is proposed to continue but changes its name to the subject of Quarantine, which is a more appropriate designation of a permanent body with administrative authority. The obligation for policy-makers to inform about the transition to a new position outside the country shall cover all transitions. This is an extension in relation to today's rules. Such a uniform information rule will be easy to deal with and could contribute to more consistent practice in the subject of quarantine. The Presidency also considers it reasonable that policy-makers to set up businesses and thus to be subject to the quarantine rules must demonstrate that such activities are actually established. No substantial changes have now been proposed to the existing conditions to impose quarantine and/or procedural bans on politicians. It is important to be aware that such restrictions continue to be imposed only in specific cases. A new addendum makes it easier to impose responses on policy advisers too. The only change of real significance for politicians leaving their post in the ministry is an extension of the overall duration of the quarantine and the prohibition of action for politicians from a maximum of 12 to a maximum of 18 months, the 6 months quarantine plus the 12 months ban, where this is considered to be a serious consideration. Politicians who enter or re-enter a department or post shall not be subject to quarantine. It may also be appropriate to mention in this article that the senior officials and officials who move to positions or activities outside the administration may be subject to the new rules to be subject to quarantine and prohibition of action even if this is not reserved in the contract of employment. This is justified by the need for more consistent practices. Finally, the initiative taken by the previous presidency has been followed up in a good and thorough manner by both governments, and I recommend a unanimous attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e665	Let me first thank you for a good and thorough treatment in Stortinget. It is a strength in this matter that there is unanimous support for the amendments proposed. There has also been a long and thorough treatment in advance of Stortingen’s treatment. The issues we have discussed today – whether policy entry, government, and the transition from politics and public services to private or other public activities – are important. It's important that we maintain the high trust. Then we need to constantly discuss both these questions and see if the legislation we have is sufficient. It was the Bondevik II government that introduced in 2005 three sets of rules on quarantine and prohibition of action at different transitions, just to ensure cleanliness and trust. Since we received the first guidelines on quarantine and case ban in 2005, the Quarantine Committee has dealt with 177 cases, and there have been quarantine and/or case bans in 92 of them. In my opinion, the Quarantine Committee, through its practice of the guidelines, has made a strong contribution to the fact that there has been a great deal of peace in the transition of politicians to positions outside central government. The basis of experience on transitions from office to post is more limited. However, in some areas, the experience gained from the decisions of the Quarantine Committee could be used in formulating proposals for rules for officials and officials. I am not going to go into the individual proposals from the government, which have been endorsed by the Stortinget – they were presented in an excellent way by the representative Marit Nybakk – but just stress that we are now getting a simplification by going from three legislations to one. We legislating this also helps to increase legal certainty. We also tighten the legislation on a number of points, such as: in the case of an extension of the scope of the procedural prohibition and of the adjustments made to officials. I thank you for a good and thorough treatment in Stortinget and express great pleasure in the fact that it is a unanimous attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e694	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e701	First, I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party to focus on the tourism industry by asking the government to present a big message. It is expected that a communication will present, in its fullest range, the opportunities and challenges for Norwegian travel life at national and international level and will provide the basis for an active travel policy. I'm glad the government's on the same track. I believe that the potential for developing travel life in Norway is great. The time has come to address a national policy for the future Norwegian tourism industry. The last time a comprehensive travel report was submitted to the Stortinget was in 1999. The last time the Stortinget asked the government to prepare a travel report was in 2006. A lot has happened in these years in the travel industry. This has also happened a little since the national strategy for travel life was established in 2012. At the same time, there is much from this strategy that should also be implemented when, hopefully, a broad-based travel life message is to be adopted in Stortinget and a travel life policy is to be implemented. There is a lot of green in today's travel life, and more green it has to be, both in a landscape image and in an environmental and climate image. Tourist preferences for the choice of tourist destinations are under constant change and competition for attracting tourists is only getting tougher. This is the assessment of professionals, and I share that assessment after talking to different actors in the tourism industry. That means that the investment that was made internationally last year, and that is done this year, is not good enough next year and next year. Travel is one of our most important industries and one of the most important for branding Norway. It is also one of the industries that have the potential to really contribute to the Norwegian economy, to more jobs spread around the country and to the Norwegian welfare community. Norway as a destination has several times been identified among the best destinations in the world. I believe that this is an obligation. In the left, we believe that there is a need for an even clearer professionalisation of the industry. Measures must be put in place both in product development and in destination development and marketing. Destination companies have an important role to play in organising and facilitating tourists and providing tourist information. These are common goods that benefit both tourists and locals. In the left, we believe that this should be largely financed from public budgets. One of the conditions that I think we need to look at is how travel operators think they have to spend a lot of time and resources collecting money and applying for grant schemes for projects – time and resources that could have been used more directly to attract new customers both nationally and internationally, and to improve existing and developing new products. The following elements should be central to a notification: to strengthen the Innovation of Norway’s foreign territory in international marketing, to create a clearer cooperation between destination, sub-sidiary and Innovation Norway on product and destination development, to support an infrastructure that strengthens the accessibility of our attractions and activities, including through the use of public transport and CO2-neutral car transport, to ensure that travel is included as a consultation party in national development cases where the basis for travel life may be threatened to look at the possibility of introducing VAT reductions on different travel life products in order to enhance competitiveness in relation to the global travel market to increase efforts in research related to travel life; The left believes that more efforts should be made to integrate into the tourism industry the green transition we are now seeing. I want to bring out Tingvoll Ecopark in More and Romesdal, with a great potential in experiences and knowledge dissemination. Tingvoll Ecopark will be a good example of seeing the agricultural and research sectors in the context of the tourism sector. Similarly, we must seek to bring forward the unique, to develop special, attractive experiences related to our fjords and seas – the marine, marine life. Not only fish, but also visits to farms can be a fantastic offer for many, such as the production of rockfish and dry fish. Several examples could have been mentioned. There is a great potential for developing the Norwegian tourism industry through an active tourism policy. I look forward to a message that is concrete and ambitious. Otherwise, I refer you to the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e747	The Labour Party is in agreement with what the case spokesperson said about the importance of tourism to Norway. This is really a future industry, and there are also only small shades in the comments from the Committee in most fields. What's strange is that publishers don't speak for their own suggestions today. We have received repeated examples that this government does not include plural comments – they must be in the form of decisions before paying attention to them. Then it becomes strange to have long comments and not to go into your own suggestions. I'll leave that ball. The biggest and most important thing is hotel accommodation in the seven largest cities. This is worth paying attention to. The tourism strategy ‘Destination Norway’, which was merged with the industry and presented in 2012, developed three main objectives for the work on the tourism industry: increase value creation and productivity several year-round jobs and more solid enterprises, especially in District Norway several unique and qualitatively good experiences attracting more guests with a high willingness to pay When we see the growth coming in the seven largest cities, it's especially important how these measures are now reflected in the travel news. Then more needs to be put on the market, not less. It becomes empty words when a joint committee says that the tourism industry ‘has the potential to become one of the most important industries for Norway in the future’ and the government party at the same time proposes cut-offs in the marketing funds. During the budget summit of the nutrition committee, there was a replay of 40 million cutbacks from a co-operative business. kr in marketing funds above Innovation Norway had to be reversed. Probably got the cooperation part reversed 20 million. kr of this – and good it is. But with a single committee comment on the importance of the tourism industry, it must be allowed to believe that the next 20 million. kr will be in place in the revised national budget. In discussions with the industry, it appears that the important work started by the government of Stoltenberg, linked to challenges with very many small travel companies, has stopped. One must insist that the Minister of Economic Affairs takes this into account and get the work done on hams again. A critical factor for further growth in the tourism industry is the availability of capital. The government of Stoltenberg proposed an own seed fund for travel life. I hope that the government will also find interesting and follow up. Another challenge for the travel industry is coordination between travel routes and travel – and the time axis here. Driving skills are important for the marketing of tours, excursions and the like. Here we have a lot to go on. Nature-based travel life is growing. This provides great potential within the industries that have the basis for managing natural resources. A travel life announcement should definitely facilitate the use of the natural and cultural heritage in tourism and the use of national parks and heritage areas in the marketing of Norwegian travel lives. Norway has had incentives to have an agricultural holding throughout the country. This is seen under pressure, especially production on the small farms. It's these that deliver short-range and local food, to the delight of tourists, that give it little extra. So some would say that this is an article in agricultural policy. It does, but it also shows that everything is related to everything. On the port, on the wi-fi and on the use of apps – here we are world leaders. In the future, we need to focus on the new travel habits of people, not being suspended in how it was before, a long time ago. Wi-fi is a keyword here, and according to the NHO Travel Life it is more important than the better route. Aeroplanes are also important. It's not like the masses are coming by bus anymore, they want to fly by plane. Coupling holidays and business trips must also be assessed. International congresses would make an important financial contribution to travel life. In the end, a tripod for the tourism industry will also be e-currency and digitised forms and focus as much on the adoption of new digital solutions in the service sector as on traditional innovation in the product-producing sector. I hereby make the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party and wish to close the Minister of Industry with a new travel life message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e789	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e792	Although the petroleum industry will continue to be important for Norway in the foreseeable future, the Norwegian economy needs more economic legs. Travel life has the potential to become a strong leg, significantly stronger than the industry currently has. That is why the government has decided to promote a major communication on travel life, which is why I am pleased that a joint committee supports such a communication. In the current year's budget, the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is only 239 million. kr specific for travel life purposes. It's a significant amount. In addition, travel operators have access to all non-sector instruments in Innovation Norway and to other parts of the instrument. Travel also enjoys at least as much the benefit of implemented tax reductions as those in other industries. And when we ask travel operators what's most important to them, they answer – almost without exception – infrastructure and transport. It's a response that coincides with the findings of Menon's recent value creation analysis of travel life. It shows that the transport industry is the most important value-creating part of travel life, and the physical infrastructure that constitutes the accessibility of Norwegian destinations is among the most critical factors in increasing the international competitiveness of travel. This is one of the government's most important bet areas and an area government has already done a lot. So it doesn't mean that it's true when someone thinks that this government doesn't bet on travel, but there's probably some disagreement about the tools in the bet. I believe that the country's main role towards business is to design laws and regulations and to facilitate business itself to take responsibility for its own development. I am therefore looking forward to a big message that helps to make the discussion about travel life in Norway something more than a discussion about government budget appropriations, as the red-greens seem to believe that good travel policies are limited to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e801	Let me begin by commending the rapporteur for the job that has been done in the Committee's proceedings, but not least for the contribution that the rapporteur made here. I appreciate that, and it's constructive. I must also commend the proposers for promoting this proposal. As a long-standing opposition politician, I have been involved in promoting similar proposals under the red-green, but then we did not get a hearing for a travel life message. Now I register that the red-greens think it is time to deliver a travel message. Whether it's because the red-greens have ended up in opposition or not, I don't know, but at least I think it's strange. I have to say that I am very, very happy that the Council of State and the government say that there will be a travel life message for Stortinget. For travel life is as complex as this country is both far and wide, and has really everything to offer tourists. When it is composed, it means that there are many departments affected by travel life, in fact all departments: the Ministry of Transport, as mentioned earlier, is affected in terms of both road, train, ferry, Hurtigruten, and not least aircraft. The Ministry of Justice has an important role to play. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has a very important role to play. After all, we are constantly experiencing that travel businesses come up with new products that sometimes happen – to put it mildly – that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is putting an end to them. The Ministry of Local Affairs also has an important role, and not least the Ministry of Finance. That's how I could have really framed all the departments and their way of helping to influence the tourism industry. So the fact that you get a message to the Stortinget, where the whole government gets involved in designing that message, I think it's very good. And of course, an important role here will be for the travel actors, not just by making recordings, where the red-greens made an internal strategy, but here it will actually be real input into which the Storting can participate, and be involved in designing a good policy. Some suggest that this government has reduced some transfers for the marketing of travel life. Had that debate been so simple that it was just about the amount of the money, it would have been a pretty simple debate, because then the one who had the largest amount would have won. The travel industry is totally dependent on having a content, and it is not just that the more money you spend on marketing, the more you get back for it. You've seen a lot of examples of that. The Committee was in Brussels last week and then marketing seafood – Norwegian seafood, international seafood – and there was no one who said that only we spend the most money, we get the most back from what we market. That's how you work – the way you work against new markets, the way you work against the established markets, and not least the products you can design. So there's an important role for the industry, and the government is a good and decisive contributor in this way. The previous speaker, Hans-Jacob Bøno, pointed out the importance of the petroleum industry, and I can only fully agree to that. We both come from the same part of the country where the petroleum industry is quite new. We have seen how the petroleum industry has paved the way, among other things. in Hammerfest and in Kirkenes, and the significance it has had for the infrastructure in North Norway, has been absolutely crucial. And that's the same infrastructure as the travel industry. So there'll be more jobs, there'll be more people moving to those regions, and there'll be more people involved in designing a good travel industry, and you'll also get more tourists. So here it all goes with everything. I just want to finish by saying that I think it's very good that the government comes with a travel life message, and again the government delivers good things to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e816	I would like to start by thanking the proposers and the case rapporteur for a good job on the matter. I'm also glad we're getting a big message now. I've missed some commitment to the travel industry by the government. I want more pressure on this industry. It is just as many people here have said: Norway needs more bones to stand on, and I want to add: while we are a big oil and gas nation. There's no need to set industries up against each other. Tourism is an important industry for Norway today, and it is an industry with the potential for further growth. When there's now a message, I'll use my post to say something about what we from the Central Party are concerned about that one has to light up in the industry, because tourism is not about counting the number of heads, it's also very important how much value creation you have per tourist. Increased value creation must be a goal – not most potential tourists. The tourism industry is a distinct and important district industry. It needs to take into account when designing policies, and there may be one of the major challenges to create all-year jobs – creating activity and activity throughout the year. Then one needs to focus on developing new attractions, one needs to focus on making it easy to be a tourist in Norway, and we need to build on what are our qualities. A living cultural landscape is part of the Norwegian tourism product. That is why tourism policy is linked to rural and agricultural policy – and, in particular, to fisheries policy. People come to Norway because they want to see a living country. The traffic with Hurtigruten is not going on because the boats are so nice, it's there because you have a great nature and a living country to show up. I would warn against the decoupling of travel policy from agriculture, rural areas and fisheries policy. This is linked to, and must be seen in the context of, the transport policy, because we need to coordinate travel life activities with the transport strategy. So it's e.g. important that we have a good flight offer within Norway, it is worth taking with us the travel life perspective when one discusses how many airports we are going to have in Norway. However, it is also important that Avinor is clearly informed to work to facilitate new direct routes from abroad to Norway. To increase the value creation, I hope that one will follow up the proposal of the Stoltenberg II government on a separate seed fund for travel life. It's also a dilemma with this, for example. there is a discussion on the relationship between cruise traffic and other tourism. Is it sustainable? Is there any tolerance limit for how many ships you tolerate in the West fjords? And how can we facilitate a reduction in the environmental impact of cruise ships? Another issue that has been raised in the media is the closure of the FM network. What happens when car tourists from Sweden, Denmark and Germany lose the radio link when they come to Norway? It is worth recalling that the tourism and tourism perspective must be included in all related issues. I look forward to receiving this message for treatment, and the Central Party will contribute constructively to a good message, focusing on increased value creation and all-year jobs, and where we are very concerned about developing regional and local products – that things should be seen in context and separately. In addition, I still have difficulties in understanding how to reduce the marketing resources of Innovation Norway as a strengthening of the Norwegian travel industry. It is possible that the Council of State will clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e837	Norwegian business is changing. We know that over the years we have developed a two-part economy, and that we are vulnerable to a dominant oil and gas sector. So, for many, many years, Norway is going to live well with oil and gas. But more than in the past, it is necessary to strengthen other parts of business. We're going to go from specialty to conversion. One of the industries we want to strengthen is travel. This is a view I'm registering shared by an overall nutrition committee, and that's good. Travel life has a great potential for further development. Norway is in a favourable position in terms of opportunities for the development of tourist-demand experiences and, equally important, the development of new travel products. On the part of the government, we are committed to developing a good framework for increased competitiveness and conversion in Norwegian business. That is why we have cut taxes and taxes through several budgets. We are implementing a historical commitment to culture, and we are implementing important simplifications as well as a strong commitment to industrial innovation. This is important for all parts of the business. But we also know that different industries have different needs. That is why we are now making a business plan that we are working on – and will soon be ready – a separate strategy for maritime industries, and therefore we have also decided to make a big deal about travel life. The notification shall be based on both existing and new knowledge. Among other things, we have have been prepared a value creation analysis, which was delivered earlier this year and which gives us new insight. Travel life is one of the fastest growing industries worldwide. Destinations in Norway are highly ranked in the ranks of internationally recognised media such as Lonely Planet and National Geographic. It shows that Norway, and what we have to offer tourists, is being noticed internationally. Despite this, I think we have a great potential for greater value creation in the tourism industry. The natural benefits of Norway are a good starting point for the further development and value creation of the tourism industry. At the same time, Norway is a high-cost country, and many people find it expensive to travel to Norway. To develop tomorrow's travel life in Norway, we need to address some of our challenges, while focusing on working smarter than competitors in other countries to meet precisely these challenges. I intend to present the message early next year, so that it can be dealt with in the Storting in the spring session 2016. The Communication naturally discusses some fundamental issues related to the management of important inputs to the activities of the tourism industry, the future development of the tourism industry and the division of labour and responsibilities between the public and private sectors of the tourism policy. A message to Stortinget will provide good opportunities to create a process in which we can channel, evaluate and prioritise the industry's many input and wishes, even from an overall policy perspective. The current theme of a communication on tourism policy will include: be: common resources as an input to the tourism industry, both in the form of nature and in the form of anthropogenic infrastructure, such as competitive advantage and the adaptation of industry to future climate and environmental challenges of the tourism industry's particular challenges, which are addressed by different sectoral authorities at several levels of administration, the importance of the tourism industry for regional value creation and employment, also in Sami residential areas the roles and responsibilities of the public sector – how can value creation be increased and how should public support to the industry be structured? I am engaged in having good contact with the travel industry and relevant organisations in the design of the message. I've planned more recording sessions – we'll start at Beitostølen this week. In addition, we will meet Young Entrepreneurship, which is to organise entrepreneurs in Troms, Akershus and Sogn and Fjordane. Founder's camps will take place at secondary, secondary and university level. I look forward to developing a forward-looking policy for travel. And not least I look forward to a complete and good debate in Stortinget next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e881	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e884	During the previous government, work was started on merging small travel companies and getting fewer destinations. The Minister's own party has in many respects also pointed out that'more for money' is important, as an slogan. The challenges of the lack of coordination of small — which often have small job fractions as well — and getting larger and powerful companies is important to get something done. So my question is, what does the Minister actually do to get this work done on the rails again?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e892	I'm very pleased with the question, because it seems that someone has told the representative a story that's not right. One of the first things I did was to meet representatives of the Structural Committee for Travel Life to discuss the way the previous government had arranged this, and to which I got many critical remarks. We had a long and good meeting. They also said that it was the first time they had met a government council that spent time reviewing this. We agreed on other rules of the game. It must not be the ministry that comes down over the destinations a system that we believe is the right one. It must come from the industry itself. We're good on route. We use considerable resources. 11.5 million. NOK 11 million. kr shall be used. If everything goes well, the project will be in port during the spring of 2016, but then it has been done in a different way, in cooperation with the department. We're facilitating, but the industry itself is driving this forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e901	Could the minister then elaborate on what other game rules you are now working on? It's the one. The second thing is, whoever's wearing the shoe knows where he's printing. Can the Minister promise that the industry will be involved in and included in the preparation of a new travel message, which will now be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e908	As I said, the first thing I did was meet the industry itself, who had taken up criticism of the way the previous government had done this. The map was then drawn in the ministry – it was a group model. So you had the answer to what all parts of the country, all municipalities and all destinations should look like. That map – I said – must be drawn by the industry. Those who want it must go together themselves. No one shall be forced in. Everybody's not coming, but everyone's going to be invited. This work is well on track, and it is done by the industry, with the help of our forces in the department. We're going to do this in a good way, which means that we get more powerful destinations. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e915	The largest and most obvious exercise this government has taken in travel policy is the proposed 40 million cut. kr in funds for the marketing of Norway abroad. This was reduced to 20 million through the Storting budget process. kr. I think it is natural to ask the Council of State whether this has given better or worse marketing of Norway abroad. Who is the one who has advised this council that it is wise to cut marketing funds abroad – that it has been too high – and could expect further proposals for cutting marketing funds in the future budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e920	No, I totally disagree with the representative. The most important thing we've done to business, too, is cut taxes and taxes, it's investing in industrial research, which travel businesses also use, it's a historical commitment to transport, it's going through simplification, it's going to restructure the structural project, and it's going to get a value creation analysis that will give us knowledge of the message we're about to make. So for travel life – as the only industry – it spends over 200 million in public. for marketing purposes. And we're still going to do that. But the efforts we have made on taxes, on infrastructure and on innovation and development are more important to this industry. This is a priority. Then we've gotten a lot of knowledge about how the marketing and how we set it up works, and we're going to work on that in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e927	The red-green made a travel strategy, and it was well received in the industry. One of the main issues raised there was getting more jobs all year round. The Council of State referred to the important initiatives in the current message. There was very little focus on employees, as I heard that post. But the Council of State indicated that there is increased competition and that there are high costs within the industry. Does the Council of State see that the emphasis on better, competitive framework conditions for industry can be at the expense of employees, or should it be hoped that there will also be good pay and working conditions in this industry in the future, and that there are important district jobs under which it needs to be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e932	I could settle for saying yes. Yes, of course it's important. We have good pay and working conditions, and we still have to have them. We also need to facilitate all-year jobs – that is very important. That's some of what we need to look at. I believe that our agricultural policy contributes to this because you get farmers who can live off the job, and they also contribute, among other things. into the journey life. I believe that changed conditions in the Working Environment Act are good for travel life, because it contributes to more flexibility throughout the year. We obviously disagree here, and we can live with that, but I think in several areas we should look at this. We will also look at how to develop more research and competence by having jobs in travel. We see examples of South Africa. So yes, it's important to work conditions, it's absolutely crucial, of course, but we have to be able to develop a forward-looking business with more full-time workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e937	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e953	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e960	Child labour and child exploitation are something that most of us react negatively to and distance themselves from. That is why it is very funny that there is a joint committee that is behind both the proposal for document 8 and the government's work on improving the law on public procurement in this area, so that we also get rules that take care of children's interests, just as we expect companies in international trade to protect the interests of children. Societal responsibility often begins with responsibility, holding, values and ambitions of the leaders. That's the way it has to be in public. That's why it's great that the government is already on the government platform in terms of human rights. Child labour is a major international challenge. We trade in a global value and often don't have knowledge of the products we buy. Working with social economy and child labour cannot be anything that is beside the enterprises or the public value chain, but should ideally be an integral part of the total work and focus on the whole value chain. When we discuss child labour, one easily goes into the trap that one wants to ban it – because one does not like it, and because it violates our values and norms. Today's standards and values in Norway can't always be based on what is acceptable or not in all parts of the world. Not all countries have a built-in education system and sound welfare systems, as we have in Norway. We got this from the nutrition committee itself when we were on a committee mission to India and Myanmar. We received, among other things: insight into one of Telenor's dilemmas. They had a code that might have been more adapted to Nordic HMS requirements and social standards. Telenor told me about the dilemma of a 17-year-old worker who had a dependant burden, but unfortunately had to give way to Telenor's 18-year-old limit for trenching. There was no easy decision for Telenor, and that good did not get work, was for the environment and society around a totally unexplained decision by Telenor. The UN has also done a lot of work to be more nuanced than just saying that child labour is negative and must be banned. For many children, work is absolutely necessary to survive. The challenge is to know when it is the case, or when it is the exploitation of children that happens. In Article 32 of the Convention for the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is entitled: ‘Children have the right to be protected from exploitation and from and put into any work likely to be dangerous or prejudicial to the education of children or to harm the health of children, or physical, mental, spiritual or social development.’ It means, in my opinion, that we have to work actively with the problems. Prohibiting child labour by law does not give a solution in itself. Enterprises must have an incentive to work actively with the problem, so that child labour where a child is exploited is stopped. It's only through active work and good attitudes to social and economic viability we can do it. If public procurement of their inputs to processes with their suppliers and subcontractors to improve the situation of social responsibility and child labour, enterprises in the value chain will be able to significantly improve their competitiveness. Good, responsible business provides good effects for owners and for communities. This will affect the profitability, risk, value creation and attractiveness of enterprises as employers. The aim of the focus on social and child labour should eventually be to promote those companies which have good systems and which are systematically and focused on creating changes for more social resilience. We all want a world where elementary human rights are respected and respected. It's the exploitation of children we're after and will prevent. Therefore, systematic work against child labour is the right thing, not necessarily an absolute law. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD guidelines for multinational companies clearly state that companies are responsible for any violations of human rights and child labour, etc. This applies not only to own companies, but also to subcontractors. Such rules do not apply to us private consumers, whether in public purchases, which are intended to meet the needs of goods in both countries and municipalities. There is now a joint committee that wants to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e989	It is an important matter that the proposers raise here, one that concerns the whole of globalised value production. The public sector is a major buyer in Norway and there is broad consensus in the Committee that it is important to demand basic labour and human rights for the workers producing the goods purchased. In the case, it was found that too few public institutions require basic labour and human rights to be respected when goods are purchased, but there are honourable exceptions. In this case, the proposers refer to Health South-East, which excluded half of the providers from a competition for the supply of surgical instruments because the providers were unable to document their system of ethics back in the supply chains. Through eight core conventions, the UN Labour Organisation, the ILO, has worked to set minimum labour standards internationally in areas such as child labour, freedom of organisation and discrimination. About 168 million children stand up every morning to get ready to go to work. More than half work under dangerous conditions. The worst forms of child labour are devastating to children’s health and development and hinder schooling. The Industry Committee met Kailash Satyarthi, winner of the 2014 Peace Prize, in India recently. He argues that child labour and poverty are an evil circle and a poverty trap that undermines the future of children and young people. I'm sure he's got a lot right in that. We in Norway are acting in a global world and believe it is important that fundamental human rights are well respected, including in the context of public acquisitions. During the autumn, the size of the premium will deal with the rules for public acquisitions in an overall context, and this proposal must be properly addressed. What has been recorded in this case must also be included in that treatment. Several organisations were represented during the consultation and all supported the proposed document 8. The hearing we had on that matter also showed that the importance of good competence among public purchasers is important and that the requirements of procurement must be followed up. It's an overall challenge to solve both that the competence is in place, that the requirements are there, and that you actually follow up the order you have in the public sector, because there's a big buyer we're talking about in the public sector, with over 400 billion. kr a year, so it's a big responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1004	I want to start by thanking the proposers. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the job. The Committee had a good hearing on the matter. The theme was also affected on our trip to India and Myanmar. The starting point is simple: child labour is unacceptable. It's an evil circle. It is possible to argue why these kids are going to work. I believe that those reasonings are not acceptable. Then I am concerned about the matter that comes from the government, which is about the public that buys. Government is a major buyer. It's divided into very many: many municipalities, county councils, state units. It's important that we make rules that actually work out there, that we don't have a skin of legislation that doesn't work. It was also noted at the hearing that different types of guarantees and declarations are of little value. Here, active efforts, cooperation with NGOs and others, are required to ensure that the reality of where the goods are produced is within an acceptable standard, that child labour does not take place. The case rapporteur went a little further than that with the public purchasing and also involving private purchases, Norwegian companies that have subcontractors in different countries. This is also about consumers, consumers' right to information and to influence. I think we have a great responsibility to face up to the realities that are out there, to help people make conscious choices. I believe that when the committee was on the move, we didn't see child labour, we might not see a breach of legislation either, but we saw a reality that we don't recognize, which is completely different from the standards we have in Norway. I think it is important to convey that message and welcome a broader debate on child labour, on pay and working conditions, also as a result of the matter of the public procurement coming. I am very pleased that the committee is so united in this, and that we can work out instruments that are unbureaucratic as far as possible. But this will go a little bit on chord with simplification. Yes, it's easier not to make such demands, but we can't stop making those demands. Then it's a good starting point that the whole Storting agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1017	I would like to thank the proposers who have raised a matter that also concerns the Left strongly, and I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work of the Committee. Like the rest of the Committee, the Left also believes that the proposal for a representative addresses a very central issue and sees it as important that fundamental work such as human rights be properly protected in public procurement. I expect the legislative proposal announced in the autumn of 2015 to take up the intentions and the elements that the proposers point to and are in. During the open consultation in the Committee on the matter earlier this spring, it was stated that the legislative proposal sent by the government at the hearing appears to be fulfilling the intentions of the draft representative. It calms me down. At the same time, as the Committee notes, I noticed that there are examples of public purchasers not complying with the ethical trade requirements. It's not just unfortunate; it's unacceptable. We can't have it that way. We have to make sure that we get rules that actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1026	Two years ago, workers in the Rana Plaza factory in Savar district outside Dhaka in Bangladesh discovered cracks in the walls of the factory building. The factory managers refused to listen to worried workers. Workers who do not meet at work lose their jobs were told to do so. The next day, April 24, 2013, it's Ragnarok. The building collapses by the weight of heavy industrial equipment, illegally built floors, tons of textiles and thousands of people. In panic, people flee to the stairs. Someone's jumping out the windows. Human bodies are squeezed into the heel when the floors are pressed together. Voluntary digs out survivors with just the hands. Fire crews cry when they realize that there is no longer any hope of saving more. 138 people die because of the accident that day. A few weeks later, I meet some of the survivors, and after that meeting, I am sure of two things: first, that such accidents are still going to happen as long as the workers do not feel that they have a voice, and second, that we also have a responsibility to ensure that this does not happen again – because our lives are linked to theirs. The bloodshed of the workers hangs around our necks and necks – and is in our clothes. In the back of many of my shirts, it says «Made in Bangladesh». There were 29 Western companies that got their clothes produced in the now stately building of Rana Plaza. Among them were known marks like Benetton, Mango, and Walmart. We in Norway have to use the tools we have to give the workers a voice. Public Norway has a responsibility as purchasers of goods and services for 400 billion. kr per year. For example, the importation of surgical instruments and textiles into the Norwegian health system takes place. from countries where there is a high risk of child labour and unworthy employment. For this reason, I am extremely pleased that the Committee's suspension is so ready to support the following: when the State and the municipality buy goods, the requirement for fundamental rights to be fulfilled – the prohibition of discrimination, the prohibition of the worst forms of child labour, the prohibition of forced labour, and not least the right to organise and conduct collective bargaining. These are the main international conventions on labour standards which have been accepted by most countries. What is also worth noting is what was said in the Committee's hearing on this matter. The Norway Group, which is a large supplier to the public via a large household, expressed the importance for the Norway Group of emphasising ‘ethical trade’ in the public procurement legislation. This is justified by the fact that serious operators are presented in public tender rounds. The Norway Group is a major player, but there were also contributions from smaller suppliers to the public sector at the hearing. The AS Club is a family business at Flisa with 50 employees, with a framework agreement with 60 municipalities and five counties. They said at the hearing: «Frequently, I end up asking questions about ethical trade at the contract follow-up meetings, and ask that we be followed up in this area. We want to take more social responsibility. [[...]] It depends on being able to get paid for the work we do. When none of our competitors take this responsibility – because they are not followed up – we do not compete on equal terms. If development does not reverse – and our competitors continue to downgrade this work – then we must do the same in the long term in order to be competitive.’ Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Industry to pay particular attention to the fact that the Committee stresses that formal requirements are not enough. The Committee writes: ‘The Committee considers it important that further measures relating to education and training be implemented in this field as well, in order to ensure public procurement competence.’ Thanks to the future in our hands and the initiative for ethical trade that has followed this matter for a long time, and the hat of the Minister of Industry, who will meet us in this matter. The job has just begun, and it's incredibly important to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1049	Representatives have made proposals to amend the rules governing public acquisitions so as to require the maintenance of fundamental labour and human rights in public acquisitions. The Nobel Peace Prize, which was awarded in December to Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai, reminded us of how serious and extensive child labour and unworthy work are in parts of the world. Children belong on the school bench and not in factory halls. It is therefore both important and necessary that we, as authorities, make clear demands that fundamental human rights are respected and followed up in procurement law. This is why I have now sent to the hearing a proposal that contracting authorities should have appropriate procedures to ensure that fundamental human rights are respected in public acquisitions where there is a risk of breach of such rights. The public sector in Norway makes purchases for about 10 years. 430 B.C.E. kr every year. The public sector has great market power and a responsibility for the good and responsible use of Community funds. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has stressed that we want to build our policies on social responsibility and international solidarity. It also applies to public acquisitions. The legislative proposal, which is now being consulted, reflects the importance of contracting entities ensuring the responsible production conditions in the supply chain. By using its market power, public purchasers may contribute to the safeguarding of fundamental labour and human rights in countries where there is a particular risk that the supplier infringes those rights. ‘ ’ In particular, I expect professional buyers who make a large number of acquisitions in the risk group to take a special responsibility and lead as good role models. This applies to both the requirements and the follow-up that takes place in practice, for example: in the case of inspections at the production premises. Uncovering critical situations must have consequences. In some cases it may be corrected by the suppliers. In other serious cases, there may be additional consequences. This is the responsibility of the purchasers and they must ensure that appropriate procedures are in place. Any breaches may also be followed by national audit, municipal audit and KOFA. Overall, it becomes a political responsibility to follow this up in the state, municipality and county municipality, which is responsible for their buyers. In 2011, the UN adopted guiding principles for business and human rights. The principles deal with the responsibility of States to protect against violations of human rights, such as: infringements committed by business operators and the responsibility of business to respect human rights. The UN Guiding Principles also state that countries should promote respect for human rights in enterprises with which they have commercial transactions. During the spring, the government will promote an action plan that clarifies how the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights are to be followed up in Norway. Public acquisitions will be one of the many themes of the action plan. As Minister of Industry, I am also responsible for the government's ownership policy. I have clear expectations that companies operating in and from Norway will respect fundamental human rights. In Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014, A diverse and valuable ownership, and Report. St. 10 for 2014-2015, Possibilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy, it is stated that the government expects companies with State ownership to respect fundamental human rights, as they arise in international conventions, in all their activities, and that they also follow this up with their suppliers and business partners. It is this expectation that we will now put to the contracting authorities through the proposal to amend the Law on Public Acquisitions, which is now being consulted. The Economic and Social Committee has, in its capacity, highlighted the need for competence among public purchasers. The Directorate for Administration and ICT – Diffi – is responsible for guiding purchasers on how to make good public acquisitions. It also applies to how they can take social responsibility in their purchases. With the new legal requirement, and new EU directives extending the scope of action to make such demands, Digi will update its guides, templates and tools so that the requirement for procedures to follow up labour and human rights is made visible and adequately followed up. The aim of amending the procurement rules is to introduce simpler and more user-friendly rules. I think that is quite possible at the same time as we also make fundamental demands on respect for labour and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1075	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1089	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1096	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important matter. It is very positive that there is an overall committee that supports the proposal, in which we ask the government to ensure a procedure for GMOs which in practice means that each GMO is to be assessed against genetic engineering laws. This will clarify whether a ban on GMOs is to be imposed and, where appropriate, whether it will be lawful to place it on the market in Norway. All parties, other than the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left, wanted to be more concrete and will ban the placing on the market of maize line NK603 and also ask for a presentation of the GMO policy of the Government. I expect that the majority themselves will explain their views. Norwegian consumers want clean, safe and sustainable food production. Norwegian consumers are sceptical about GMOs in food, and there is a great and growing resistance in Europe. The reason is that GMO farming is based on intensive use of chemical sprays and fertilizers. In Norway, efforts are being made to reduce injecting drug use — not to increase it. This has great support in the Norwegian people. We want the food we eat to be ethically sound. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that we need to take seriously the uncertainty associated with GMOs and make use of the opportunities we have through genetic engineering laws and international agreements to reserve ourselves against GMOs. We are uncertain about the consequences of GMOs in food and feed, and the Christian People's Party has been clear about laying the precautionary principle on the basis of our handling in the matter. Developing new technologies gives us many opportunities, but it also gives us some challenges. It should therefore be a fundamental principle for us that it is ethics that should govern the technique and not the other way around. As I said, we need more knowledge about the adverse effects of GMOs. In the evaluation of health risks, there is a large gap between researchers. It is precisely this uncertainty that is one of the main reasons why there should be a precautionary approach to genetically modified products and one of the reasons why restrictive policies should be pursued in this area. The Norwegian gene technology law requires substantial emphasis to be placed on the suitability of a GMO for promoting sustainable development, i.e. a clear refusal to the approval of products that undermine such development wherever production takes place. It is positive that the EU Parliament recently adopted a directive which gives each Member State the right to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants within its national borders, even if the plants are authorised by the EU. What this has to say for Norway must be further worked on. In addition to the major uncertainties about the health-related impact of GMOs on the Norwegian population, the solidarity of countries where GMOs are grown that are resistant to strong sprays must also be taken into account. There is a high likelihood that there are health consequences of the syringes used. These GMOs are just resistant to injecting drugs that are banned in Norway in the light of their health-related adverse effects. Can we then tolerate the fact that Norway, through its imports, gives legitimacy to the use of sprays that harm local populations, people and animals in the countries from which we import? Should a non-toxic everyday life be reserved only for us? I'm just asking. The Christian People's Party is occupied with ethical, safe and sound food. We're not alone in this. Today's treatment shows that we are united in this. I will end by saying thank you for your cooperation and I will once again express my very positive support for the fact that we are united in the proposal that GMOs should be assessed against genetic engineering laws. Finally, I agree with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1130	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee for a well-functioning task which has ended up bringing the Committee together on a very difficult issue. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that is now clarifying the procedures for dealing with GMOs in Norway, if necessary, and I think it is important to clarify it through a decision in Stortinget. When you start discussing these kinds of things, it's easy to get torn down with purely emotional because we're concerned about what we get served on the plate, and what we surround ourselves with of plants and animals. I think most of us think that it's nature's own origin that's going to form the basis for our surroundings. It does, of course, make it emotionally strong for many to discuss such matters. The second is that a lot of the professional actually goes in that direction. We have had a very restrictive approach to this type of case from the Norwegian side before, and I expect it to continue as well. What could have been hoped for was that when we are now going to vote on the issues, an aggregate increase could be behind the fact that there is a need to discuss these kinds of issues in the Storting with a slightly broader approach – just how it will affect us in the future, what opportunities Norway has to say no to GMOs in the future, and how, for example, it will have. food production is developing around the world. The kind of discussions about GMOs I think it would have been useful that the Stortinget had carried out. So the reason I took the floor was that I was hoping and asking for a total Storting to vote for the setting II.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1141	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and expressing my satisfaction that we agree on the important principle in this matter. It's an important signal, and it's very good that we've reached that consensus. Norway has a restrictive position on genetically modified food and feed. The Norwegian gene technology law shall ensure that the production of genetically modified organisms is carried out in an ethical and socially sound manner. It follows from the EEA Agreement and from the Genetics Act that EU-approved GMOs are also allowed in Norway, unless a ban is imposed. This has been the policy in force for many years, and still is. However, in accordance with the provisions of the Genetic Technology Act, the Norwegian authorities will focus on more assessment criteria than the EU does when assessing whether to ban a Directive-approved GMO in Norway. These are ethics, sustainability and social benefits. On a case-by-case basis, it follows from the EEA Agreement, from the genetic engineering law and from the obligations of Norway from the WTO that GMO applications are to be assessed individually. In this case, it is proposed that the Storting should ask the Government to prohibit the marketing of the maize line NK603. In its reply to the Committee on the subject, the Council of State set out its views on this maize line. The Council of State refers to the approval of this maize line under the EU Postponement Directive in 2004. This corn line has not since been banned by any previous government in Norway. The assessments relating to the prohibition of a Directive-approved GMO in Norway are a professional assessment. In Norway, the Directorate for the Environment coordinates the national process of GMO applications. The Directorate is responsible for environmental risk assessments and the sustainability, societal benefit and ethics assessment criteria under the Genetics Act. Food surveillance assesses health risks and agricultural evaluations. The Scientific Committee on Food Safety assesses environmental and health risks and the Biotechnology Council is the central body for assessing sustainability, societal benefits and ethics. In the case of maize line NK603, the Environment Directorate assessed it to pose a low environmental risk. It is right that the assessment of prohibitions should be a professional process, implemented and coordinated by the Environment Directorate. We will therefore not support proposals made in this case to ban the maize line NK603. The EU Regulation on genetically modified food and feed has been evaluated and adopted by previous governments in 2005 and 2011, subject to the consent of the Storting. The implementation process does not go as fast as you would like due to a lack of progress at the EFTA country Iceland. When implementing the Regulation, the Norwegian authorities will indicate that GMOs authorised in the Regulation will require explicit yes decisions by the Norwegian side to be allowed. Most GMOs for treatment in the EU are now being considered under this Regulation. This will also be the case in Norway when the food and feed regulation becomes applicable in Norwegian law. The Minister for Climate and Environment has stated that no new GMO policy has been announced by the government. However, the Council of State suggests that there is a need for a clearer treatment process around GMOs after several years of unclearness. The process of evaluating prohibitions has also taken a very long time in the past. Governments have therefore notified a review of practices in this area, with a view to improving and streamlining the treatment of GMOs, in line with current practices. The Council of State has also stated that it will assess whether nine GMOs, approved under the EU Postponement Directive but not banned in Norway, should be prohibited. This we believe is good. In its reply to the Committee on this matter, the Council of State also gave details of current practices in the field of GMO treatment. The right considers that this statement was clear, and with a clearer treatment process around GMOs in the future, we do not see the need for a separate case to the Stortinget that explains Norwegian GMO policy. Before the food and feed regulation was implemented in the EU, GMOs were treated under the Postponing Directive. Norway has had an adaptation to the EEA Agreement which has provided us with the possibility to ban an EU-approved GMO under the Genetics Act. Right, like the rest of the Committee, it is important that Norway should be guaranteed this possibility even after the food and feed regulation becomes applicable in Norwegian law. We believe that it is important that we have a procedure which in practice means that each GMO that could potentially be authorised in Norway, whether it is under the EU's deliberate release directive or the food and feed regulation, is assessed against the genetic engineering law and is given a clarification as to whether it should be banned before it becomes legal for its placing on the market in Norway. In view of this, the right-wing vote supports the proposal for Decision III submitted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1171	Genetic engineering allows the transfer of genes between different species and the introduction of new properties to organisms. There are now a number of GMOs authorised under the EU Postponing Directive in the EEA area, and for many years there have been uncertainties about several legal issues related to the authorisation of GMOs in Norway. That's how it was under the previous government, and that's how it is to some extent today. Unfortunately, the implementation process does not take place as quickly as the government and the authorities want, which is largely due to a lack of progress in the EFTA country of Iceland. However, it is also the case that when implementing the Regulation, the Norwegian authorities will ensure that authorised GMOs will require an explicit yes decision by the Norwegian side to be allowed. The majority of GMOs for treatment in the EU are currently being assessed under the Regulation, not the Directive. There is little doubt that such treatment will ensure that no GMOs will be approved in Norway in the future without being in line with the Norwegian legislation in this area. Maize varieties T25 and NK603 were authorised in the EU more than 10 years ago, and the Norwegian authorities have not previously found a need to ban them. Even for eight years in the government, those who are making proposals today for a ban have had the full opportunity to actively ban the GMOs, but have failed to do so. As a result, there is a need to ensure a treatment of GMOs which in practice involves each GMO being assessed against the genetic technology law and which clarifies whether a ban should be imposed before the GMO might be legally traded in Norway. We learn that the red-green government was passive to the GMOs for eight years, and it was this inaction that led to a request from an actor about the legality of the GMOs. The actor sent a request for this to the Ministry of Agriculture in 2008, but had not received an answer to the enquiry when we rounded 2014. The red-green managed for six years not to answer this request. I guess disclaimer is a word you can use here. Another side of this debate is whether it is professionally correct that the Stortinget is the right venue to deal with each and every GMO that comes. Clearly, some believe that the professional level of the wholesalers is far better than the professional environment of the ministry in terms of the procedures and decision-making practices of each GMO. The size should be concerned with larger and longer lines of policy than with the case-by-case treatment of each GMO. It gets too narrow in the long run. As the Progress Party sees it, there is therefore no need for a separate case for Stortinget to deal with this. Norwegian authorities already have the opportunity to actively prohibit GMOs if they consider it to be the most appropriate. The fact that the red-green government did not use this possibility more often does not mean that the processes are not sufficient today, but also indicates that it was not carried out in a good way by the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1191	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the entire committee has determined that hereafter all genetically modified plants are to be assessed for their conformity with the Norwegian gene technology law before they may become legal for their placing on the market in Norway. It also applies to plants that are allowed to be placed on the market in the EU. This has been crucial for the Committee to be made clear after the government, by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, stated that a number of genetically modified plants were to be considered as allowed to be placed on the market in Norway because they were authorised in the EU. I would like to stress that, in view of the view of the Centre Party, the two relevant maize lines we are talking about here are not approved before the Norwegian authorities have completed the final examination of the case and have taken a decision as to whether Norway should suspend the prohibition or restrict the marketing of the maize lines, which Norway has occasioned when the EU approves GMO applications. It is also true that it is the Environment Directorate that deals with these kinds of issues and addresses them to the Ministry of Climate and Environment and that final decisions are taken by the government. It is also true, as the representative of the Right here says, that in the case of the maize lines concerned, the Environment Directorate has had a rather relaxed attitude in the sense that they have considered that there is a low risk, whereas the Biotechnology Committee has, on the other hand, recommended that both maize lines be banned. The principle of dealing with these kinds of cases is very important. Anyone wishing to place genetically modified plants on the market in Norway must be able to demonstrate that it is ethically sound, that it contributes to sustainable development internationally, and that it is free of risk to health and the environment. There is no call for genetically modified plants from Norwegian consumers. However, many people believe that genetically modified plants are unnecessary and undesirable, and food producers have clearly stated that a GMO should be kept away from Norway. The environmental organisations also fear the consequences of allowing GMOs. GMOs can enhance plant resistance to pesticides or insects, and that is primarily what has been the main concern so far. One of the maize lines in question, maize line NK603, has been genetically modified to tolerate a syringe with glyphosate. The cultivation of genetically modified plants resistant to spraying agents can lead to increased use of spraying agents and may increase the risk of weeding developing resistance to spraying agents. In the case of maize line T25, it is genetically modified to withstand the glufosinate-ammonimune spray, a spray that paradoxically is prohibited in Norway because it has been proven to be hazardous to health and the environment. It can hardly be expected that these two GMOs will be approved in Norway as a positive societal benefit or a contribution to sustainable development. The centre party therefore considers that genetically modified maize lines T25 and NK603 should be prohibited. This is really about an environmental risk, an environmental risk that the centre party believes you should not take. And there I have to be allowed to say that we're a little disappointed that the left pushes this away by saying that it's a professional question. Here, perhaps more than in many other areas, it is important to base a precautionary principle, and to somehow refrain from taking a stand on it by pushing it over to being a professional question, I think is an unfortunate and elusive attitude. I can also agree with the representative of the Progress Party who believes that we should not deal with GMOs individually in Stortinget. There are good reasons not to do so, but there are also good reasons to vote in favour of today's proposal that the Stortinget should have a bigger case – a comprehensive consideration of the issue of genetic modification of plants – and see this in a broader context, where one has the possibility of a broader discussion than one has the possibility through a Document 8. The centre party considers GMOs as a potential threat to biodiversity through resistance and through the spread of GMO seed in nature. The GMO offers the major international companies patents and control over the world’s food production at the expense of a common farmer. The centre party believes that agriculture should be managed on the premises of nature, with good agronomy and based on the knowledge of the farmer, but today, therefore, the three largest agrochemical companies control half of the world's seed production. This has led to a sharp reduction in the range of GMO-free seeds, and it also leads to farmers using their own seeds, from their own harvest, being sued by the large companies. The Central Party considers restrictive policy in the GMO area to be important and necessary, both in terms of health, environmental and agricultural interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1212	The maize varieties T25 and NK603 were authorised in the EU more than 10 years ago. In the past, the Norwegian authorities have not found any need to ban them. However, during the ten years there has never been any assessment of whether these maize varieties should be banned. The Ministry correctly points out that the T25 is not to be regarded as legal in Norway, but the problem here is that during these ten years no assessment has been made. For this reason, the Left is very pleased that there is now an overall committee that ensures the proper handling of GMOs, which also ensures that a specific assessment and procedure is given in advance of whether these should be allowed in Norway. What is important in this case is precisely that this is determined so specifically, so that we do not end up in such a situation again. So the question is whether we need a separate case about government's view of GMOs, and a new GMO policy. From the left, we are satisfied with the law we now have, and see no need to have a separate case and a separate review in Stortinget, as long as the Council of State determines that today's policy is firm. What is important in the case of GMOs is that, precisely in order to fulfil the precautionary principle, a concrete assessment is given on the basis of sustainable development, social benefits and ethics, as laid down in the Genetics Act. I think this is worth noting: there has been a discussion about whether there is an automatic link in that what is approved in the EU is also approved in Norway. It is also important to note that the European Parliament has just adopted a new directive, which states that each country can pursue its own policy and prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants within its borders, even if the plants are authorised by the EU. So right on this question, we definitely have full national freedom of action. We are also pleased that the Council of State has initiated a process to assess whether nine products authorised under the EU Postponement Directive, but not banned, should be prohibited. It is important that we have such a review, so that we also ensure that the case is dealt with here. With regard to the proposal for Decision I, that the Storting should enter and specifically prohibit the placing on the market of the maize line NK603, the Left considers that this must be a matter for the government and a professional assessment. That we're going to go into individual assessments that way, we think we're going to create the wrong precedent. In this case, we are primarily pleased with the proposal for Decision III, which ensures a proper procedure, so that we never end up in the situation we are in now, with these two corn lines – that it does not happen again. We believe that the GMO policy that is being pursued is good and must be pursued. We don't think it's right for the Storting to ban a single product like the maize line NK603. There has to be a separate assessment, as done by the professional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1233	The background to the promotion of this Document 8 is the opinions of the Minister for Climate and Environment, which were interpreted as automatically approving a genetically modified plant approved in the EU in Norway. Such an interpretation would be undermining the purpose of the Norwegian gene technology law. Today, therefore, is a day of joy for all who will pursue restrictive policies against genetically modified plants in Norway. The decision of the majority implies the continuation of practice in Norway. A unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment states that all genetically modified plants are to be assessed – whether they are in line with Norwegian genetic technology law – before they become legal to be traded in Norway. This also applies to plants already authorised for placing on the market in the EU. That's good. The Norwegian Law of Genetic Engineering is a bold attempt to avoid operating with double ethical standards. Norway should not contribute to people and nature in other countries being exposed to a health and environmental risk that we, for our part, do not want for our own country. Therefore, it does not consider that there is a risk to health and the environment in Norway, if the situation is different in the country of production. Applications for the placing on the market of GMOs shall demonstrate that they contribute to sustainable development, are socially useful and ethically sound in an international context. This is how it has been, and today the Storting determines that this is how it should continue to be. However, today’s treatment means one change, and that is that the Minister for Climate and Environment has promised a faster handling of matters. As long as the procedure is sound, this is positive in the SV’s opinion. However, we must remember that for the two cases mentioned in the Document 8 proposal – the maize lines NK603 and T25 – the applicant companies have not provided the necessary additional information to assess the plants against Norwegian genetic technology law. If the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment loses patience and finishes dealing with matters for companies that do not provide documentation, I assume that such insidiousness does not benefit the companies. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to comment on that principle. I would like to thank the Left and Right of the Stortinget who have worked well, so that today we have got a unanimous big deal to call about the genetic engineering law. I would also like to thank the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party for being very clear in the vote and supporting a proposal that the Storting make a single decision and ban the maize line NK603. I would also like to thank the Progress Party – in which case we have, like everyone on the thank you list – who so clearly flags a restrictive line on these issues in the public domain. Minister for Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug has stated: ‘I’m going to be on the line that Norway has faced in the past. I don't see any reason to change it. There is strong excitement about saying no to GMOs in Norway.’ The representative Grimstad of the Party of Advances was also exemplaryly clear in the nation on 13 November last year: ‘We aim to carry out an investigation into these types of maize with a view to prohibiting sales in Norway,’ says Frp’s environmental spokesman, Oskar Grimstad.’ [[...]] I therefore ask the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to note that a majority in Stortinget has lost patience with the genetic technology companies that own the rights of these maize lines. There is a majority for prohibition. Now it is the Minister for Climate and Environment who has to do the last part of the job and the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1258	I would first like to thank the SV and the Centre for a good and important proposal on a matter that has far-reaching consequences, and I would like to thank the Committee for having established a clear agreement that all genetically modified organisms, including EU-approved organisms, should be approved in Norway before being released into the Norwegian market. This is very important, and it is a good day for Norwegian policy that this is now established. It's important to remember that 70 pst. of the food produced in the world is still produced on small family farms. There is still a long way to go in Norway, even though developments with the current government are drifting in the wrong direction. Is this old-fashioned and rational? No, that's not it. It is very important to understand that it is a prerequisite for international and long-term food security that we have a flexible and locally adapted agriculture, based on locally adapted plant species. And precisely in a situation where the climate is changing, and where the prerequisite for cultivation and food production is changing, it becomes more valuable, and the importance of maintaining genetic diversity and cultural diversity in the world is growing. The problem with genetically modified organisms is not technology. It's exciting, it can be used for a lot of reason if you hold your tongue straight in your mouth and use the precautionary principle. The problem is the business model behind the production and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms, where the whole objective is a frontal attack on diversity – against diversity in cultivation methods, against diversity in biology and against diversity in ownership. Because of this, it is very important to maintain and strengthen the control of countries, regions and communities over the use of genetically modified organisms and the use of native and non-genetically modified organisms. It is a very good thing, to which several debaters have referred today, that the EU has now actually given the Member States the right to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs within their own borders, based on arguments such as environment, health and food security, i.e. quite similar to Norwegian policy. That is why it is good that we have emphasised a precautionary attitude here in Norway, and I think it would be very sensible for long-term Norwegian food production and for Norwegian consumers to ensure food safety if we get a broad case for debate in the Storting on how we can deal with this issue in the future, as the proposal for II says. I see no reason why it should be a problem for all parties in the Storting to support such a proposal, given the general view they have expressed of the control we must have over genetically modified organisms in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1270	Some of the key questions in the debate on genetically modified organisms are: What is the effect on health and the environment? Is the use of GMOs ethically sound? Do we get a development that is for the good of society? Are the interests of sustainable development pursued? I am pleased that in Norway we have a genetic engineering law that takes care of all these important elements. Norway has implemented the EU Postponement Directive. The Directive is implemented by the Genetic Technologies Act. A directive-approved GMO is allowed in Norway, unless we adopt a national ban. I have noticed that several of the committee members are calling for a GMO not to be allowed in Norway without an explicit authorisation decision. The Genetic Technology Act and the EEA Agreement are based on the opposite approach. In the view of the Ministry, if the representatives wish to be honoured, this will require both legislative amendment and renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. My opinion is that we already have sufficient leeway in Norway. We are free to prohibit or limit the scope of GMOs authorised by the directive if they present a risk to health or the environment or otherwise are contrary to the purpose of the law. This is apparent from Section 10 of the Genetic Technology Act, sixth paragraph, and the adaptations to the EEA Agreement. Norway aims to implement more EU GMO legislation, namely the Regulation on genetically modified food and feed. This has been assessed and adopted by previous governments in 2005 and 2011, subject to the consent of the Storting. The Norwegian authorities propose that authorised GMOs under the Regulation will require explicit Norwegian decisions in order to be allowed. This is in line with the wish of several of the representatives. However, the process has been delayed due to a lack of progress in the EFTA country of Iceland. The representatives of Solhjell and Schlagsvold Vedum propose that the Storting should ask the Government to ban the placing on the market of the two maize lines T25 and NK603. I believe it is an important principle that the basis for such decisions is knowledge-based. So far, I do not have professional advice from the Environment Directorate that suggests that the conditions for prohibition under the law are met. However, I notice that other instances, such as this. The majority of the Biotechnology Council recommends a ban. I find it problematic if the Storting imposes decisions on the government that could be contrary to the WTO and EEA Agreement. In the event of a ban, the government has to consider both EEA law issues and Norway’s WTO obligations. It is clear from existing procedural procedures that Norway is required to take a rapid decision following the EU decision. No decision has been taken on nine authorised GMOs. These have been approved by the EU between 1998 and 2009. It is my job to ensure that the procedure becomes more effective and predictable. It is not acceptable that matters are being dealt with for years. If the placing on the market of a GMO is contrary to the genetic engineering law, we need to make faster use of the possibility we have to restrict or prohibit the placing on the market. The forthcoming implementation of the EU GMO Regulation requires an update of national procedural procedures. The Environment Directorate has worked on a draft new procedure, which must be completed in consultation with the Food Authority and the departments concerned. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has asked the Environment Directorate for updated GMO recommendations, including: for the maize lines T25 and NK603. In March came the recommendation for genetically modified maize line MON810. More recommendations will follow soon. I would like to encourage Stortinget not to pre-conclusion in cases like for the maize lines NK603 and T25. The government should assess the GMO issues in a concrete and individual way, on the basis of the criteria and professional recommendations of the Genetic Technologies Act. I can promise that I will work to make decisions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1303	State councils were very concerned with the professional aspects, rules of procedure and procedures relating to genetically modified organisms. My challenge to the Council of State is really how we politically view the increasingly widespread use of genetically modified organisms. I mentioned in my post that we are busy with the corn lines, but I also mentioned in my post the seed production, where the selection of GMO-free seeds in the world is almost halved. There are three multinational companies that are soon controlling a large proportion of seed production. They can sue farmers. In Norway, 20pst is still available. Norwegian farmers use their own seeds from their own crops, which means that GMOs are not just a matter of formal procedures and procedural rules. It is also a policy issue that concerns risks related to agriculture, the environment and health. My challenge to the Council of State is: how does the government and the Council of State view genetically modified organisms in that context, not just as a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1310	First of all, the government is clear that we want to ensure good practice in this area. So it's pretty obvious what the Storting believes about GMOs in practice. The same goes, of course, for the government to consider this – it is not desirable to allow GMOs unless it is professionally justified. This is where it is so good that we have a strong and clear gene technology law in Norway. What is exciting now is the change that is taking place in the EU, where the EU has put itself firmly into the Norwegian law on genetic engineering and has seen the value of a clear and clear policy around it. I think we have to be even clearer about seeing GMOs in a broader context in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1315	I didn't see it as crystal clear all that the minister said, but if we agree that the Council of State has intended to deal with the majority of the committee's comments, I think we can say that then we are happy with the practice further forward. But let me add a moment. It is that a unanimous committee stresses that: ‘It is important for the government to work to ensure that Norway, through the implementation of the food and feed system, is adapted to Norwegian legislation to assess GMOs in accordance with the sustainability, social benefit and ethics criteria — as laid down in the Norwegian gene technology law, before Norway decides whether to authorise or prohibit the GMO’. I am aware that it is not the Minister for Climate and Environment who is responsible for the negotiations with the EU on the implementation of the Food and Feed Regulation, but since this is a crucial issue for the genetic engineering law, for which the Minister for Climate and Environment is responsible, I would nevertheless ask Tine Sundtoft: What is the status of the negotiations now, and how do Norwegian authorities work to ensure that Norway still has the opportunity to pursue an autonomous and restrictive policy in the GMO area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1325	Some of the challenge in this matter is that the previous government was not crystal clear in its case-handling of the GMOs. This is what we are now quite clear about – how we are going to deal with the genetic engineering law, how we are going to get a faster process. What is important to us is that Norwegian professional environments and authorities are also actively involved in the evaluation of GMOs, prior to EU decisions. As I said, what has now happened in the European Union, we believe that we are a strength for the Norwegian principles of the genetic engineering law to appear more clearly in the European Union – and that is also for our benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1334	I thank you for the answer, but I guess I didn't feel that it was quite accurate. So I just ask the question again: What is the status of the negotiations in relation to the question of whether we have the opportunity to ensure that the criteria we have should also be able to continue? How do Norwegian authorities work to ensure that Norway still has the opportunity to pursue an autonomous and restrictive policy in the GMO area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1341	It is possible that I misunderstand the question. I do not fully understand the negotiations to which the representative, Mr Holmås, refers. What is important is that the EU itself has now adopted how it can deal with GMOs, in line with the EU’s decision – that it is now becoming clearer that countries can assess it for themselves. That is precisely what we have recorded, and that the EU also sees the clear advantage of the Norwegian gene technology law, which is clearer in this respect. But it is possible that I do not fully understand the Eidsvoll Holmås question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1350	Then I just reformed, to be precise: Does the Council of State believe that in the future we in Norway should also be able to assess all GMOs on the basis of the sustainability criteria, social benefits and ethics, as laid down in the Norwegian law on genetic engineering? Can the Council of State guarantee that this is something we will be able to continue to do in the future – within the new feed regulation, within the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1357	For us, the genetic engineering law is crucial in this. And what's good in the new feed regulation is that one has also looked at what the Norwegian gene technology law stands for. It is precisely the principles we have said that are important, and it is important that these are respected in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1362	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1378	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1385	I would like to thank the Committee, both on behalf of myself and on behalf of my alternate, for their good cooperation in getting this matter into port. The case concerns the fact that the representative Rasmus Hansson advanced a case in which he proposed the following two points: ‘1. The government is asked to ensure that the purchase of allowances in developing countries is not used to meet Norwegian climate objectives after 2020 and that this is used as a basis for the notification of new Norwegian emissions obligations to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in spring 2015. [[CDM allowances]] 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asked to assess whether further Norwegian contributions through the CDM system are an appropriate way of supporting green development in developing countries, in relation to, inter alia, the CDM system. The Green Climate Fund of the United Nations.’.» Since the time the proposals were put forward, we have addressed the Norwegian climate objectives – the biggest news of this – for the period 2021–2030. There were considerable disagreements, but also significant things about which it was possible to stand together. In the process of this Document 8, the Committee has therefore ended up with a minority who have promoted a slightly different proposal for orders further in the future. But I thought I would go through some of the things that I think it is important for the minister to pay particular attention, and to present a challenge to the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'll start with the first one: one thing that's worth noting is what's on page 2 of the setting. It says the following: ‘The Committee points out that the United Nations’s flexible mechanism ‘Clean Development Mechanism’ has funded good projects in developing countries’. [[CDM]] And then it comes: ‘However, the Committee considers that financing climate action in poor countries should not be a substitute for cutting Norway’s own domestic emissions.’ I stress this, because this is a principle that the Committee lays down. It's true in the period we're in now, and it's true in the period we're going into from 2021 to 2030. It is an important principle that I am absolutely convinced that the proposer is well pleased to have a unanimous committee on it, because it means the simple thing that insofar as we buy quotas instead of fulfilling climate change mitigation measures in Norway, we have to buy EU quotas to do so. All purchases of CDM allowances shall only be used for the additional achievement of the climate objectives we have set ourselves. It's a unanimous big thing that gets stuck, and I'm happy with it. The second point is the question of climate finance. Here I just have to ask and challenge the Christian People's Party and the Left in particular, because a minority here consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party promote the following proposals: «The government is asked to draw up a case for Norwegian climate finance funding in poor countries by 2030. This matter should cover all areas where Norway is already contributing significantly.’ I believe that such a discussion is absolutely necessary. Now we have had the Climate Communication, which has established the principles on which we base what we report. But we know that one of the things that is stagnating the progress of international climate negotiations is the willingness of rich countries to take on the responsibility of the principles of the UNFCCC, namely that we have a shared responsibility, but we have different capacities for implementation, and we have a different historical responsibility for causing climate change. In other words, it is absolutely necessary that we have a clearer and more ambitious funding for both climate adaptation and climate change development – the green shift – in developing countries. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary to get in place before the climate meeting in Paris. I see that a minority in the committee believe that should come to Stortinget and be treated. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for the Environment is thinking about these things, but there is no doubt that it would be a strength for the Minister for Climate and the Environment to bring with him a large number of people who had a clear package for how we should be offensively involved and contribute to bringing the climate negotiations forward. The third is that there is a minority from the Centre Party, the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens asking the government to develop concrete targets for climate finance in poor countries by 2030, which clearly distinguishes between the ambitions for domestic migration to the low-carbon society and climate finance in poor countries. All the proposals are concerned about this, and I look forward to a debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1430	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the two suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1433	I believe many outside this room – and to the extent within it as well – it seems to be quite daunting to understand what kind of targets and commitments Norway actually has in terms of cutting greenhouse gas emissions. We wrap around by percentages, we talk about quota systems, about the EU and the United Nations, about quota and non-quota sectors, about flexible mechanisms, about climate finance, etc. It's not exactly easily accessible to figure out and know what to actually do as a nation. That's what we're going to do in Norway, and what we're going to do internationally. There's a lot of strong opinions about how we keep accounts for this too. Right now we are, as the rapporteur was involved, in a process. We have recently agreed to have a dialogue with the EU that we should be involved in achieving a common goal with the EU area of about 40 p.m. By 2030, and then with the premise that we are not allowed to use the UN's flexible mechanisms. If we don't get to play with the EU, we still have to have 40 pst. as an objective, but then with access to flexible mechanisms in the new agreement. What does that mean? If we listen to the various debates about this, the different versions of what it actually means. It says a little bit about the complexity of the whole problem, and also about the availability to most people. Cicero found it necessary to create a social note to draw and explain, and it says a little bit about this being demanding. I believe that we, who are at this house, need to set aside all the symbolism policies and focus on what actually works to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions. This is about taking greenhouse gas emissions in Norway — something else would be completely irresponsible. But it's also about contributing and financing emissions cuts in other parts of the world. I have recorded in some discussions that the latter is not as high as cutting in Norway. But it is the total greenhouse gas emissions that have to go down. Then we have to do both. I have a great deal of understanding of why the representative, Hansson, is promoting a proposal for a representative on the green development mechanism and the problem around it, because it is demanding. I am then pleased, as the rapporteur was also obviously, that an overall committee writes in its opinion that the financing of climate action in poor countries should not be a substitute for cutting Norway's own domestic emissions. Then we have different nuances in the approximation, there's no doubt about it, but it's important that we agree with that principle. With regard to the proposals in the vote itself, the Labour Party is involved in the promotion of proposal No. 1 to ask the government to draw up a case on climate finance in poor countries. We believe it is important that we take a thorough look at it, also in order to get some clarifications on how we should do it, and not least get a complete overview of the areas that we are contributing to today. The second proposal we consider relevant in relation to the work of a climate law, and we will not vote for it today, but that does not mean that the proposal is not important, but we believe it is natural to see it in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1444	There is broad consensus in the Committee that financing climate action in poor countries should not be a substitute for cutting Norway’s own domestic emissions. In this way, the proposer opens an open door. But it also needs to be done sometimes, it has now been done, and the committee agrees. The size has recently joined the government’s proposal for a common target achievement with the EU, with the aim of cutting emissions by 40 pst. compared to 1990 levels by 2030. At the same time, the Storting agrees on a conditional target for Norway to be carbon-neutral in 2030. This objective will not be possible without the impact of Norwegian climate action in developing countries being taken into account. Norway is already doing a great deal to reduce emissions in developing countries. The international forestry effort has been decided to continue until 2020. The UN's green fund is to be allocated $1.6 billion. kr in the next four years. Recently, it's set at 100 million. to an initiative to reduce the use of fossil energy subsidies in developing countries. Norway also supports an initiative to eliminate unnecessary flares by 2023. Together with the UN Environment Programme, Norway recently launched ‘The 1 Giga Ton Coalition’ to help reduce emissions from the energy sector. At the same time, Norway has a strong commitment to the development of clean energy in developing countries. The aim is to provide energy access, contribute to sustainable development and reduce CO2 emissions. This is done through bilateral projects, multilateral channels and not least through the investments of Norfund and SN Power in clean energy. A lot has happened. With a special performance-based incentive scheme – GET FiT – in Uganda, we have helped to start building up 170 MW of new hydropower, bio and solar power. In Rwanda, Scatec Solar has built 85 MW solar power plants. In Kenya, Norfund is the investor in Lake Turkana wind farm, which will be over 300 MW and thus the largest wind power plant in Africa and the largest investment ever in Kenya. In Nepal, Norway supports off-grid installations in rural districts based on mini-water power, better coke ovens, biogas and solar photovoltaic systems for single houses. This includes 98 000 households so far. In Liberia, Norway contributes to the reconstruction of Mt. Coffee – a 250 MW hydropower plant that will replace oil power plants. In Haiti, charging stations are built for charging mobile phones and small rechargeable lamps based on solar power, and local power grids based on solar power. In Mozambique, Uganda and Nepal, Norway facilitates the development of hydropower and solar energy through institution development and the construction of transmission lines. Norfund is involved in the development of approx. 6000 MW in the form of hydropower and solar power in developing countries. Much, much more could have been mentioned. Financing climate action in poor countries will continue to be very important in the years to come, and Norway will continue to take significant responsibility in the years to come. However, the future of the UN's green development mechanism is uncertain. The system has its weaknesses, but at the same time it has triggered significant funds for key emission reduction and technology transfer to poor countries, which would otherwise not have happened. To date, the GMM has resulted in documented emission reductions of more than 1 billion tonnes of CO2 and triggered more than 215 billion. dollars in investments in developing countries. This represents approximately 150 pst. of the world’s public assistance in the course of one year. By 2020, the UN estimates that the system will cut an additional 2 billion tonnes of CO2. Notwithstanding this, Norway will of course contribute to ambitious emission reductions in Norway through the commitments adopted by the Stortinget before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1472	As others have pointed out, climate action is a global challenge, but the main weight of this government’s climate work will be international on forest conservation, access to clean energy, climate finance, phase-out of fossil subsidies, short-lived climate entrepreneurs and climate adaptation, especially through the focus on food and nutrition security, weather and climate services, agricultural research, the prevention of natural disasters and the conservation of natural disasters. Another important part is the work of the Right-Forward Party government to scale up international climate funding from public and private sources and innovative sources of funding. A plurality in the Committee, where we are part of it, also believes it is important to work for international mechanisms that can mobilise greater resources for long-term and prudent financing of climate action in developing countries. The Green Climate Fund of the United Nations is decisive in this context, and as a consequence, the government will support the Green Climate Fund of the United Nations by 1.6 billion. until 2018. There is also reason to refer to the Government Platform, where the government writes that they will ‘establish an investment programme within the SPU, with the same management requirements as other investments in the SPU, with the aim of investing in sustainable enterprises and projects in poor countries and emerging markets’. The need for climate finance in poor countries is high, and this government is taking over. Good funding is needed to prevent large spill-outs in poor countries as the economy grows, with developing countries and emerging economies accounting for about 60pst. of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. I'll show you in that context of Inst. 122 S for 2014-2015, where the majority of the Committee asks the Government to come to the Storting with a case that includes a description of possible climate action in developing countries in the period 2020-2030. The size has just dealt with Norway’s indicative commitments to the UN by 2030, cf. Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015, New 2030 Emissions Commitment – a joint solution with the EU. This is a solution that is good and within the 2 degree goal. Finally, there is reason to recall that a Joint Committee refers to the United Nations’ flexible mechanism, Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), which has funded several good projects in developing countries, but that funding for climate action in poor countries should not be a substitute for cutting Norway’s own domestic emissions. To date, the CDM has delivered documented emissions reductions of more than 1 billion tonnes of CO2. Otherwise, I will also refer to the Council's response to the committee, where it is clarified that quotas purchased during the first commitment period were not used to over-comply with our obligations, not with complementary national measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1494	I am pleased that the original proposals were accepted through the review of the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. By linking to the 2030 EU climate change package, Norway can no longer use climate quota purchases in developing countries to decorate Norwegian climate policy, as in the past. This obliges Norwegian politicians, regardless of the majority of the population and different governments. Although CDM has funded good projects in developing countries and together with flexible mechanisms can play an important role in financing emission reduction measures, funding for climate action in poor countries should not, however, be a substitute for cutting Norway’s own domestic emissions. We are pleased that the government will come to Stortinget with a case that includes a description of possible climate action in developing countries between 2020 and 2030. There is no doubt that the changes we see coming from climate change will be particularly severe for developing countries. In its report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that climate change will reduce fresh water supply in many countries and weaken food security. If the temperature increases more than 4 degrees, the risk of food safety will be high at both global and regional levels. At the same time, the world's food needs are increasing rapidly. In the tropics, food safety will also be threatened as a result of the migration of fish stocks into the poles. Climate change is expected to reduce economic growth, raise food prices as a result of food production decline and slow down poverty reduction. Climate change will exacerbate poverty in most developing countries. New ‘pockets of poverty’ will arise in countries with increasing income differences, whether these countries are developing countries or industrialised countries. Unfortunately, the differences between poor and rich will only increase. Many poor developing countries are in warmer regions, which will largely have adverse effects from climate change, such as hot, drought, floods and storms. In addition, these countries have few resources to prevent and repair the effects of climate change. That's why they're very vulnerable in total. Already today, large areas in Africa are threatened by drought. In the future, the Climate Panel expects a worsening of the situation and a decline in yields. In addition, researchers expect warmer water in the large African lakes to lead to reduced fishing. This will in particular weaken local food supply, and thus threaten the livelihood of many in this region. Climate change will force more people to flee during this century. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also states that climate change indirectly increases the risk of violent conflicts such as civil war by reinforcing the impact of other causes of such conflicts, such as poverty and economic decline. In a transitional phase, we need to accept a certain level of emissions growth in developing countries. Rich countries such as Norway also need technology, competence and assistance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. If the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions automatically also implies a reduction in economic growth and development, no agreement will ever be reached on a global climate agreement where all countries are involved. The injustice between poor and rich countries is already great. Politicians in developing countries have a legitimate right to fight for growth and development for their populations. The world needs a green revolution, and this revolution is the rich countries that have to take the lead. As the world’s richest country, Norway has an obligation to go ahead and reduce greenhouse gas emissions both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1526	The Storting has agreed that Norway, through its participation in the EU Climate Framework, will contribute to 40 pst. the 2030 greenhouse gas emission reduction. The EU objective does not contain the use of the UN’s flexible mechanisms, but will facilitate flexible mechanisms between EU countries. On the other hand, Norway is also active in climate finance for poor countries. We have made promises to contribute to climate funding through channels such as the United Nations Green Climate Fund, renewable energy investment and rainforest investment. Common to this effort is that targets and efforts for the years beyond 2020 are not concrete. For this reason, the Centre Party today supports the proposal that the government should prepare a case for the Norwegian Climate Finance Agency in poor countries by 2030. Such a case should address all areas where Norway is currently contributing significantly, such as: rainforest management and renewable energy, but the matter should also address the status of developing flexible mechanisms within the UN Framework on Climate Change. Today there is a low demand for CDM allowances. The market really doesn't work. It can theoretically make it possible to purchase carbon neutrality in Norway — without carrying out any significant and painful domestic emission cuts. On the other hand, we may not get into goal without using flexible mechanisms, as well as domestic cuts. One of the most important things for the Center Party is that there has to be transparency about these questions. We need to be able to distinguish in a transparent and clear way both what one achieves through the EU climate framework, what one achieves through domestic cuts, and what one might also need to implement flexible funding mechanisms for others. For this reason, the Central Party supports the proposal today that the government should develop concrete targets for climate finance in poor countries by 2030, which clearly distinguish between the ambitions for domestic migration to the low-carbon society and for climate finance in developing countries. I think the representative Hansen is quite right in saying that it's always hard to understand what processes, what goals, what goals one has or does not have. We are in a quite comprehensive and quite detailed process. I think that in that process being open and honest, both towards it a clearer of ambitions, and towards it one cannot handle ambitions, will be quite important. Therefore, it is important to get a case of climate finance in poor countries to the Stortinget. But it would also be important if we could clearly have distinguished between the ambitions we have for domestic cuts and what we mean by climate finance in poor countries. Then we could avoid getting into one or the other of the two possible ditches we can get into. One ditch is said not to recognise that, in addition to domestic emissions, we need to use flexible mechanisms – openly and honestly admit it. The second is that we put ourselves on a line where in a pretty simple way we just choose to buy ourselves out of commitments through CDM quotas. We need to have a genuine and open debate on what is going to be the commitments – both through the EU system and domestic – and what we may need to do through flexible mechanisms. I believe that the proposals on the subject we are dealing with today could contribute to an open and thorough debate on this. That is why the Central Party is in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1545	First, I have to say that we on the left very much agree with what the proposer has presented, namely that we should not buy CDM allowances and calculate this against emissions in Norway, to which the Left has been critical for many years. Now, fortunately, we are getting away from this situation through the consensus we have on the Storting that we should try to link ourselves to the EU's climate targets, where it is just becoming explicit that we cannot buy allowances outside the EU and then calculate this against emissions within the EU. The left believes it is important, although we are linked to the EU, that we establish concrete national targets for emissions reduction by 2030. That is what the government must also come back to as the negotiations with the EU move forward. I haven't been an opponent of CDMs necessarily because CDMs are a bad idea. There are very many good projects within the UN's flexible mechanisms, and it is true that many of the measures and investments taken have led us to avoid greenhouse gas emissions – and also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The criticism is that this could be used to avoid emissions cuts here in Norway. Looking ahead, it is important that Norway, on its own basis, because we have a particular interest in it, continues to reinforce the international commitment to climate action. This also applies to the forest activity that we have, and from the left, we believe that we should take a broader view of the re-establishment of mangrove forests – which is referred to as the blue forest. We must support the Green Climate Fund where the majority of citizens have increased support over the next four years. We need to invest in renewable energy internationally, and we also need to be open to the need for some flexible mechanisms. The second part of what we now have to work with in the future is the space for action which the government and the Council of State must have towards the negotiations in Paris, where they, at least on the left, have every support to extend, including in what is international commitments, in order to establish a concrete agreement in Paris. And it is clear that the funding, and the solution for it, of climate action in poor countries is absolutely crucial to reaching a good agreement. Then to the suggestions themselves. As far as proposals from the proposers are concerned, they have been implemented through previous decisions and the objectives set out by the Stortinget towards 2030. With regard to the proposal that now lies there to ask for a separate case for the Storting, the Left does not go in for it, not because we do not want a case, but because we believe that we have asked for it in the past, and because such a case of climate objectives, also internationally, has to come to the Stortinget by 2030, and we see no reason to ask the same thing several times. It keeps doing it once.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1558	There are probably still very many, partly in this house and at least outside, who are of the opinion that Norway has a very ambitious climate policy. Many people believe that the climate agreement says we're going to cut 30 pst by 2020. of domestic emissions compared to 1990. Then there are a few of us who know that the reality is that the Norwegian climate targets for 2020, i.e. the climate agreement, are among the most modest across Europe, because it just means that we're going to cut 5 pst. of our own domestic emissions compared to 1990 levels, while our neighbouring countries are going to cut — and have already cut — in the order of 20 pst. by 2020. A very important reason why we have managed to build this illusion in Norwegian climate policy is that UN quotas – or CDM quotas – are this remarkable idea that, by helping poor countries to achieve green development, we should be allowed not to cut emissions here at home. Now there's a positive development. It is promising that Norway will relate to EU climate policy with climate objectives by 2030. It is promising that many, or most, politicians who have spoken in this debate, say that we should not use CDM quotas to cut Norwegian emissions. It is interesting to hear the employee party representative Eva Kristin Hansen be so clear in his criticism of the ambiguity of Norwegian climate policy that she was almost believed to be Hansson. This is good, and therefore one could be led to believe that the Green Party's proposal is just a question of kicking in an open door, but it's not quite obvious anyway. Firstly, there is a lot to talk about that the climate agreement that we are going to conclude with the EU will continue the principle that there is a very small number of people within Ring 1 in Oslo who will understand the Norwegian climate goals. Secondly, the government has not yet been able to clarify any target for domestic emissions cuts by 2030, which is what we can influence. Thirdly, we hear in practice the other parties – or several parties – say rather different things about the use of UN quotas. It's e.g. continue to achieve the Kyoto 2 targets for 2020, according to the government, through the purchase of precisely those UN quotas that we now have a broad consensus in the Stortingen that we should not use. In the review of the 2030 targets, as far as we can understand, it is right that if Norway does not agree with the EU, we should use so-called flexible mechanisms, i.e. UN quotas, to achieve a reduction in the order of 40 pst. in the non-quota sector. Many parties, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, repeat that Norway will become carbon neutral by 2030. I think it was Arnstad's representative who was involved in this: carbon neutral, what is it? Well, with current quota prices on UN quotas, Norway can be 100 pst. carbon-neutral in the morning by buying allowances for as much as it cost to ruin the Castle Square – and His Majesty has got a nice castle place. This is what some say about the possibilities of using UN quotas. We are therefore committed to hearing the other parties at Stortinget answer the question clearly: is a clear, explicit domestic emission target supported by 2030, or will such an emission target continue to be contaminated with foreign quota purchases? Of course, our proposal is not about contributing to green development in developing countries. On the contrary, the Greens have proposed that we should grant an equivalent amount of 1 pst. of our national income in climate aid to poor countries, a so-called climate percentage, through the UN Green Climate Fund. But for us to do that, it is high time we cleaned up at home and had clear and self-committing goals for the job at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1578	We are doing well in 2015 and this eventful year of the climate. It's only about six months left until we go to Paris to finalise a new climate agreement. The background to the proposal for a representative is a desire for more comprehensible climate targets for Norway and climate objectives that clearly distinguish domestic efforts from international efforts. Norway has just submitted its indicative commitment as one of the very first countries. The majority of the majority voted in favour of the government’s proposal for a new emission obligation to the UN by 2030 – a joint solution with the EU. By linking ourselves to the EU, we can cooperate more effectively on low-carbon development at European level. I have received a very positive response from my colleagues in the EU, but it will take some time before the agreement with the EU is concluded. Efforts to reduce national emissions will continue with full gravity. Norwegian emissions shall be reduced until 2030. I therefore appreciate the Committee's clear signal that Norway should cut significantly in its own emissions and steer towards the goal of becoming a low-carbon society in Norway. The government will come back to Stortinget with a separate case that describes how Norway will work to achieve the emission targets, when the deployment allocation is ready. I look forward to such a discussion. The Committee welcomes the fact that the CDM, the CDM, and other flexible mechanisms can play an important role in financing emission reduction measures. We should further develop flexible mechanisms so that countries can use them to increase their ambitions in climate policy and as a mechanism for climate finance. Norway has argued for a new UN-based market mechanism. It should be designed to cover larger sectors of the economy in developing countries in order to contribute to climate-friendly transition. Norway is already making a significant contribution to the financing of climate action in developing countries. This will continue in the years to come. We've made a contribution to the Green Climate Fund of 1.6 billion. kr over a four-year period and extended the climate and forest effort at the level of today’s allocation up to 2020. Norway is working to ensure that funding under the new climate agreement is closely linked to the implementation of measures, including through payment for verified emission reductions. It will be important to build further on good practices that deliver results, national anchoring, and that contribute to triggering private capital. The green development mechanism and climate and forest policy are examples of such schemes. Public money does not only help to solve the climate problem. International and national framework conditions such as the development of carbon markets, the phasing-out of fossil subsidies and the integration of climate risk are very important. Public funds must be used strategically to mobilise private climate finance on a larger scale. The government will work to ensure that the new climate agreement facilitates cooperation between different countries, in effective ways, to reduce climate emissions in the coming years. The government will come back to the Storting with a case after the deployment is clear, which also includes a description of possible climate action in developing countries in the period 2020-2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1600	I would like to start by quoting from Erna Solberg's 2014 speech: ‘The FN allowances are not part of a closed system. Today they provide no guarantee of lower emissions.» The Prime Minister used this to argue that we need a green shift in Norway. These opinions are in stark contrast to the opinion of the Right in the Committee’s position: ‘Up to now, the CDM has delivered documented emissions reductions of more than 1 billion tonnes of CO2 and mobilised more than 215 billion. USD in investments in developing countries. This corresponds to about 150 pst. of the world’s public assistance in the course of one year. In addition, the UN estimates that already approved but not implemented CDM projects will cut global emissions by a further 2 billion tonnes of CO2 by 2020.» Who does the Council agree with, Prime Minister Erna Solberg or the representatives of the Committee from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1621	Both for the government and for the state council, it's natural to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. That is why the government raised its 2030 targets, together with the EU, with such a clear marching ground that we are going to cut in Norway, because we are going to convert to a low-carbon society, but also because Norwegian business has to adapt to the change that is coming. We want to give Norwegian business the same framework conditions as the EU. At the same time, we see that the flexibility mechanisms have been important. We have also said that if you are going to have ambitions with the EU beyond 40 p.m., you may need to use flexible mechanisms. I don't see that one excludes the other. It's precisely the assessments that both the Prime Minister and the fraction here are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1628	I'm just quoting -- very simple -- the Prime Minister. What she says is that today they give – and then she talks about the UN quotas – no guarantee of lower emissions. Does the Council of State agree with the Prime Minister in this statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1633	What the Prime Minister said in the national meeting last year just gave a signal that we want to add up to a climate policy that helps us cut emissions in Norway, and that we also contribute internationally to mechanisms that deliver concrete results. For this reason, the government has continued the climate and forest activity, building it even more around concrete results in terms of emissions. So there are concrete examples that CDM has contributed to reducing emissions, but here it's important to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. For flexible mechanisms to work, others need to be involved. Here, some of the challenges have been that Norway has been standing alone in recent years. But the principle of international cooperation in order to achieve this is important. It also assesses the EU if we increase ambition beyond 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1640	This is a yes or no question, and I would encourage the Council of State to say yes or no. The country's prime minister has said that the UN quota is not part of a closed system. Today they provide no guarantee of lower emissions. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Prime Minister in this – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1645	Now I've twice explained what the Prime Minister put in the statement she had at the Right Country Meeting last year. What the government has followed up on that opinion shows exactly what the Prime Minister said: it is not enough to base Norwegian climate policy only on flexible mechanisms. That is why the government presented the 2030 targets, together with the EU, as a clear signal that we should also reduce emissions in Norway. At the same time, we see that cooperating internationally to reduce emissions requires that we have a system that works. That was also the opinion of the Prime Minister at the national meeting last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1652	I fully agree with Eidsvoll Holmås’ violent criticism of the policy of which the government itself was a part, and it is quite timely, because it is true that even if CDM projects individually as a project can lead to emissions not increasing, or to reduced emissions, it does not guarantee a country-wide reduction when it is not within a closed system. It's important to separate, so that we don't link what we're going to do at home to the ambitions out there. But it may still be that at project level it may be right to fund. So then my question is: towards Paris, will the Council of State look at the possibility of financing projects also with flexible mechanisms in the Third World, in addition to the commitment we now have within the EU to reduce our emissions by 40 pst?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1659	That's exactly what's so important: distinguishing between what we're going to do at home — what we're going to do nationally — what we're going to do with the European Union now, and what we should work together on international issues in the negotiations up to Paris and Paris. The climate challenge is global, and being able to cooperate internationally on it will still be an important principle for Norway. That's also why we spend a lot of money on climate and forest spending, that we have contributed to the CDMs and have good, concrete, individual projects that show that we have contributed to reducing emissions. Then I must also say that the EU has also not been unwilling to think about using flexible mechanisms if one increases ambition beyond 40 pst. But that is precisely why I agree with the representative Hansson that this is quite complicated, because there are many debates we are going into one debate. There must be no doubt that we are going to reduce at home, but we are also going to contribute internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1664	I must say that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has now managed to create quite a bit of a ambiguity as to what this debate has been about, namely the extent to which the government actually plans to use so-called flexible mechanisms, namely UN quotas, CDMs, which are agreed on on the one hand, and which the Council of State, on the other hand, keeps alive as a Norwegian climate policy instrument, as I see it. A natural way to limit this uncertainty is to use the Climate Act to clarify what becomes the binding national emission codes. Can the Council of State confirm, and perhaps say something about the progress of, the preparation of a climate legislation proposal with the concreteisation of national emission reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1670	We are continuing to look at climate laws in line with the decision of the Stortinget, and then we are working further with the EU to concrete the commitments, where we have said 40 pst. reduction by 2020. Now the EU itself will allocate its obligations before we can start negotiating with the EU. This will take place at the earliest in 2016. But I can't believe that there should be any doubt, either in this room or on the outside, that the new 2030 targets mean that we're going to cut in Norway. But I say that it doesn't exclude that we can also internationally use flexible mechanisms to reduce emissions in other countries. It's not a either-or-discussion this, it's a both-and. But I hope we have now helped clarify that we are going to reduce in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1675	It is all right that the Council of State points out that it is not a either–or situation to use either domestic shelling or so-called flexible mechanisms, but the current variant of this is not either–or the situation is 5 pst. cut home and the rest of the quota purchases outside, with – according to the Prime Minister – zero effect. So I repeat the question: can the Council confirm that we will know how much to cut domestically in Norway, for example. through the work now done by the Climate Act, or in another way, which comes reasonably soon and is clear enough to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1680	The government is working every day to reduce the gap as our report last year showed that we are around the climate agreement by 2020. Then we've now joined, and with the support of Stortinget, in defining our new 2030 targets. What the representative Hansson means by «reasonably soon», I am somewhat uncertain about, but we have said that as soon as we have an agreement with the EU and have been defined what is in our national obligations, we will return to Stortinget. I fully agree with the representative Hansson that we need to clarify what this means to reduce emissions in Norway. For this reason, the government will bring up five areas of intervention where we will contribute specifically in Norway, but also where we can contribute to reducing emissions internationally. That's just the way climate policy is, that this is related: what we do in Norway and what we do internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1687	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1692	I think it is important that the Council of States does not stop talking about what can be done by 2020. It is in this context that the Storting has clear ambitions, which are also national, and that is what this Council of State can do about. What's going to happen by 2030, after all – in the name of propriety, one has to say it – is more unlikely that Tine Sundtoft is going to have something to do with it. That's why I think it's important. The second thing I want to say on the occasion of this debate is that I am outraged that the Left and Christian People's Party is making it like a link to the EU means that we are not going to use more CDM to achieve our Kyoto commitments. I think that's strange, for me I'm familiar – and then the Council of State or others will correct me if I'm wrong – it's not like we've used CDM mechanisms in the red-green period to meet our Kyoto commitments. I hear what has been said by both Nikolai Astrup and the Council of State, and as a unanimous committee agrees, that CDM mechanisms are not being used to meet quota purchases by 2020, nor after 2030. Then I think it's strawberry argument from the committee's chairman and from the Christian People's Party when they make it like this is something completely new. Furthermore, I have a question for Tine Sundtoft about flexible mechanisms. The reason why it's important to make a statement about this, and even more clearly than the Council of State has now done, and the reason why I'm lingering on this now, is that this is probably the best opportunity we have to discuss the work of the Council of State on this matter, up to the Paris climate conference. The fact that Norway’s possible agreement with the EU, to which the Stortinget has joined, will not be completed until the next year – as stated in the announcement that the State Council itself has written to the Stortinget – means that the Council of State will travel to Paris and in all preparatory work towards Paris will be prepared to work for a system where we say that Norway is making 40pst. cut, but requires flexible mechanisms. Then I think it is important to hear, when the Storting today says that we do not want flexible mechanisms to be used to achieve Norway's emission targets if they are purchased in poor countries, that it should be added: how does the Council of State and the Norwegian delegation work to develop the flexible mechanisms in a way that ensures that these are guaranteed emissions within a maximum ceiling, and that flexible mechanisms are used to achieve Norwegian emission reductions only if they come from countries other than the poor developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1701	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1715	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1722	It is a good thing that a joint committee confirms that contaminated air is a very serious environmental and public health problem. The European Environment Agency has estimated that poor air quality causes almost half a million people to die prematurely each year, and in Norway, according to the Environment Directorate, nearly 1,500 people die prematurely because of this. [[Uro in the hall]] Air pollution... now we have to finish the'seminar' here! [[The President clubs]] Air pollution reduces the quality of life and negative health consequences for many Nordics. Young children and people with asthma, cols, chronic cough, bronchitis and cardiovascular diseases are particularly vulnerable. On 11 February this year, Norway was sued before the EFTA Court for breach of the Air Quality Directive. There is therefore no doubt that there is a great need for new measures to reduce air pollution in Norwegian cities, and the Committee is now in a position to safely concentrate on a number of points that underline this. As rapporteur, I am pleased that an overall Committee on Energy and the Environment believes that the work to ensure air quality needs to be given higher priority in the coming years. In winter, decisions on low-carbon zones and measures that can regulate the use of cars on national roads will also take some important steps forward, but it is therefore that the broad majority of the Stortinge still moves relatively slowly on these issues. Today it is going to be the second time that the Stortinge votes down concrete proposals that would provide further real improvements in the air quality of cities. In particular, the main trend in Norwegian policy is to continue to facilitate more car use, especially towards cities. E18 towards Oslo from the west is an example. We, the Greens, believe that we need both carrots and whips to improve air quality in cities in order to reduce the problem that our own health authorities point out we have. We therefore support the proposal to establish a legal framework to allow the State to impose fines on municipalities that breach air quality limits. Penalties against municipalities are an instrument that must be used when public health requirements are not complied with. We see no reason for sanctions to lie unused when poor air quality actually threatens life and health. In the vote, the majority, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, writes that ‘It is problematic that some parties in Stortinget want to punish municipalities for emissions that the municipalities do not currently have the means to reduce effectively’. Of course, we fully agree that it is pointless to penalise municipalities that do not have the ability or the means to impose the requirements. On the other hand, it is very meaningful to penalise municipalities which, year after year, break the limit values that they have the opportunity to extend beyond and which leave adequate action to be taken. As late as February 9th this year, the urban environment in Oslo announced very high air pollution in parts of Oslo and warned asthmatics and young children against moving outdoors and asking them to avoid the most polluted areas. So if the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that nothing can be done to improve this, it gets to be their own cause, but it's a little ambitious on behalf of the city that they run themselves. We believe, on the part of the Greens, that many municipalities have a very real space for action in implementing new measures that will reduce emissions. Examples of such measures include the use of increased public transport, the organisation of bicycles and corridors, the charging of rush time, the closure of parts of the centre of diesel cars, heavy-duty tyres, reduced parking in the centre, etc. In the autumn, we hope to get a much stronger representation of the city councils, where we can help implement this. We are therefore looking forward to a further debate that is more concrete and more offensive to the health of people in large cities and the means that we actually have to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1749	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who seems to me to sum up the importance of getting a boost for better air quality. There is no doubt that air quality in some of our major municipalities is a major social problem. It is not acceptable that the air in a few days is so bad that it is directly harmful for people to be outdoors. Extra evil is this because the areas that are most affected are where most people live. Norway has even filed an appeal before the EFTA Court for illegal bad air. That is why it is a great responsibility for the largest municipalities. They have a responsibility for the air quality of their inhabitants. It's a responsibility they have to take. They must also have more tools than they have today. Many urban politicians have pointed out just this: that they want more instruments. That's why it was so good that the Stortinget earlier this year asked the government to put forward proposals that would give them exactly that. In the Workers' Party we look forward to the issues of proposals for low-carbon zones and the possibility to regulate car traffic in the days with extra poor air. I see that the government parties use their comments for self-criticism. Then it is worth remembering that these proposals did not come from the government, they came from the Stortinget, and the proposal to regulate the use of cars on the highways was adopted against the Right and the Progress Party's votes. Therefore, the Storting will have to follow closely how the government implements a more offensive policy than they themselves want to. Gro Harlem Brundtland said everything is related to everything. It is also correct in this case. So perhaps the most important instrument that national authorities can provide for municipalities to take part in the job is to ensure a good local economy so that municipalities are given the opportunity to prioritize the measures that provide better air quality. The State also needs to take greater financial responsibility for public transport. The Labour Party decided at our national meeting two weeks ago that the state should set up and take 70 pst. the bill for collective projects in the major cities. It's a policy we want to work for to have a majority in this room. Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative to allow fines to be made to municipalities with a high limit on air quality. The Labour Party is not in favour of that proposal, as we believe this is a small appropriate measure and should be included in the list of proposals that could improve air quality. We are therefore voting against this proposal. I want to use this opportunity to demonstrate our impatience after action for better air quality in the big cities. It is important from a public health perspective, but it is also essential to achieve our climate objectives. At that time, Stortinget has to deal with the instruments and funding, and local authorities have to take their political responsibility. There is every reason to believe that this will be one of the important debates towards the local elections for the autumn, where the people of the big cities – among others. Oslo and Bergen, the two most badly hit cities, will have the opportunity to vote for a new city council.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1766	The right to safe and toxic air is a problem for all of us, not just in Norway. In today's class struggle, there's a pretty interesting article about China's coal consumption, which is on its way down. Last year, coal consumption fell by 2.9 pst., to joy both for the climate and not least for all the inhabitants who are locally affected by life-threatening air pollution. But air pollution can also be a problem in otherwise pure Norway when climatic conditions are right for it. Several Norwegian cities today have exceedances of the NO2 and particulate matter limit values of the pollution regulation and the air quality directive. Norway has also filed an appeal before the EFTA Court for breach of the Air Quality Directive. There is probably no one in this room who disagrees that clean air is important and that set limit values should be followed. This has also been followed up in several cases here in Stortinget. Int. 159 S for 2014-2015, the government was asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with proposals for instruments that in large cities could limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when air pollution is high. The 2015 budget also introduced measures that will improve the air quality of Norwegian cities in the short and long term, such as tax relief for hybrid trucks and the continuation of existing benefits for electric cars. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has also undertaken a full review of vehicle and fuel charges to stimulate a more environmentally friendly car park. Furthermore, this government will ensure the phasing out of fossil oil firing in all public buildings by 2018. Int. 147 S for 2014-2015, following up recommendations to achieve Norway’s climate targets in 2020, there were also many decisions concerning air quality, such as: a comprehensive plan for shore-side electricity use in Norwegian ports. It is then gratifying that the Right, at its recently concluded national meeting, decided to give the opportunity to relocate ships that pollute the air on days of high air pollution, where possible. There is therefore no lack of good measures and decisions to improve air quality. The question raised by this representative proposal is whether municipalities should be fined if they break the air quality limit values. My right-wing approach to this is that fines should not be used as a means of improving air quality. Many municipalities do and have done a lot, and they also demand more tools that they can use locally. These are things the government is working on now, and it will be totally wrong to introduce a criminal regime when the municipalities themselves point out the need for more tools in the toolbox. While local air quality pollution authorities are municipalities, they do not have the possibility to impose specific measures. This is the responsibility of the individual polluter to assess. The state is, as an example, a major site owner in the city municipalities through its highways, and much of the air pollution comes from car traffic. Then it can quickly become a paradox that the state fines municipalities at the same time as it itself contributes as a weigher, and without the local authorities themselves feeling that they have sufficient instruments. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes that the Riksrevision has started an administrative audit of the authorities’ work to ensure good air quality. The report is expected to be available this summer. In view of this work and all the concrete measures the government is working on in this area, the Right believes that this representative publishing house should be annexed to the protocol and that the Stortinget should not penalise municipalities with fines. We will therefore vote against the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1788	The point made by the proposers in this case is that the State should be able to impose fines on municipalities that break the hourly air quality limit values, and propose legislation and additional State measures, as well as fines on municipalities that violate the annual air quality limits. Some are obviously of the opinion that the use of the bear ice is the only way to go — the only true way to go — to solve our challenges. Well, personally, I must say that bear ice and fines do not always solve our societal challenges of air pollution. On the other hand, I believe that the use of carrots is far preferable as a measure, and will also be the most effective over time. It is also the case that the government starts setting up low-emission zones for the municipalities that want it. Together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, the government has already reinforced the climate agreement and introduces measures that will improve air quality, both in the short and long term. These include: tax reliefs have been granted for rechargeable hybrid cars and a continuation of the tax advantages for electric cars. The government is in full swing with a review of vehicle and fuel charges to stimulate a more modern car fleet. The government will also have a phase-out of fossil oil firing in all public buildings by 2018. This is a sensible use of good, sensible measures, which will have a positive impact on local pollution and air quality. It is a problem or a challenge that some parties on the Stortinget today have the courage to punish municipalities for emissions that the municipalities do not stand for themselves, or where they do not have the means to reduce emissions effectively. This is in addition to the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party also agree with the Workers' Party. The Progress Party believes that the proposers are completely in favour of their proposals that municipalities be penalised by fines when, in many cases, there are completely different causes that trigger local pollution than the municipalities themselves. Reimbursement of municipalities is a poor tool to improve air quality in municipalities in Norway. For some, however, symbol policy means most and not sensible measures such as de facto improving air quality through good, practical policies and sensible organisation. Another side that has not been highlighted by the proposers is the legal aspects of the case. How are municipalities to be fined by the law for emissions and pollution suffered by other actors? Here I think the proposal is very much missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1803	There is no doubt that air pollution is a major problem in many cities. Today’s level of air pollution in several cities and agglomerations in Norway contributes to health problems. The World Health Organisation, WHO, assesses air pollution as one of the main risk factors for premature death and adverse health effects. The health effects of air pollution appear to occur at low concentrations. Both the concentration of the components we are exposed to and how long we are exposed to them affect our health risk. Air pollution triggers and exacerbates diseases, primarily respiratory diseases and cardiovascular diseases. Children, young people, pregnant women and the elderly are particularly sensitive. However, there are also stronger points of view that air pollution can affect nervous systems and diseases such as diabetes. The limit values we have set for local air pollution are exceeded every winter in several of the major cities. Air pollution does not only contribute to health problems in major cities. Ozone close to the ground, acid rain and the fall of pollutants can lead to damage to animals and to vegetation. Acid precipitation causes fish stocks, particularly in the South, to be reduced or lost. The largest source of local air pollution in Norway is road traffic with exhaust emissions, asphalt dust, in particular from the use of peak tyres, and tyre wear. Other sources are more site-dependent, but important sources are refurbishment, industry, port facilities, construction and combustion plants. In addition, long-distance transport pollution follows the wind from other countries. The consideration of previous proposals on this issue in spring shows that the Storting is taking this very seriously. That's the real reason, and I'm very happy about that. Earlier this winter, we voted in favour of proposals to allow municipalities to introduce low-emission zones as well as measures to limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when pollution is high. There are also other interventions and measures that will be important. The incentives to change the fleet for less emissions are an example. Review of fuel taxes to stimulate a more modern car park is another. Phase-out of fossil oil firing will also have a good effect. Together, we believe this could be important measures to address the serious air pollution. Air quality in Norway has improved in the last 20 years, according to environmental status.no. However, local air pollution remains a problem in several cities, and national local air quality targets were not achieved in 2013. Norway has set national targets to reduce local air pollution so that our health is not damaged. Today, national targets are exceeded in most major cities and agglomerations in Norway. I will not go through all the paradoxes that would result if the State could impose fines on the municipalities that violate the air quality limit values, just pay attention to saying that we believe this is not the way to go. I believe that the decisions we have already taken could significantly improve air quality and thus have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1824	Let me just associate a few brief comments with the setting we have for treatment. All parties in the Storting are concerned with air quality issues in major cities, and what it means in winter, especially in some periods, what it means for people's health and also for the quality of life of people. This is something I think we all agree on is a significant issue. Then, in the discussion about the instruments, there is a certain degree of separation between layers. Now Stortinget has already given the municipalities many tools to address some of the problems they have, especially during the winter, and that is good. Road traffic is not least a major challenge, and municipalities have all the possibilities. They can decide on dates, they can impose anti-harvest charges, and they will receive increased funding from the state in the years to come to expand public transport if the red-green national transport plan is followed up. The State has also contributed in a large way to encouraging the use of rechargeable hybrids or electric cars, which, after all, must be the major part of car use into the major cities. Then it's also, of course, important that you get a phase out of fossil oil gradually. This is why Stortinget has given local democracy the means, the tools, the tools needed now, and it is also important that the municipalities no longer owe themselves to the state, but actually use the tools, the instruments they have, and implement the necessary measures during the periods when they have the greatest problems with air pollution. Having said that, I would say that the Center Party has no faith that the fineing of municipalities that do not implement things will solve this problem over time. On the contrary, we believe that there will be an increased conflict between state and local democracy that will have nothing to do with it. We believe that it must be up to local democracy to solve this challenge, and we also believe that Stortinget has given the municipalities most of the means to cope with that job. I would also like to mention, as the Labour Party representative was involved here, that the economic conditions of the municipalities are also important when it comes to being able to take action to reduce air pollution and also contribute to a better urban environment. The centre party cannot therefore support the proposals that have been promoted to impose fines on municipalities that do not implement the necessary measures, but we believe that it is important that the municipalities are now aware that they have the means and that they have to implement them. It's not always going to be as popular with the city's population, but it's going to have to be a tool to reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1837	We have to bring down the air pollution in the big cities, and that's essentially nitrogen dioxide. It is good that after many years of silence, we now have a new majority on the Storting, which implements measures to a greater extent than under the previous government. First of all, the background that we have a major problem with air pollution in the larger cities is big business and government. Under the previous government little authority was given to cities locally to implement measures, little new authority. On the contrary, something that made it even worse, namely a change in car charges that led to a very large increase in the sales of diesel cars from 2008. And it's the sale of diesel cars that's the main problem. Because it is absolutely right that there are many measures both nationally and locally to reduce emissions over time, and there are many things that are done. The cities are active, and now there's also more activity on the part of the state. But what's the main problem is the emissions from diesel cars a few days in winter where there's still air, at the most polluted times. And since 2012, Oslo has been committed to implementing measures that prohibit transit traffic from heavy transport and diesel towards the city. At that time it was the red-green government that said no to implement that measure. Fortunately, we have now received a decision at Stortinget asking the government to look at and come back with a case where the municipalities are to be allowed to reduce the use of cars on the roads on the most polluted days. It is then absolutely essential that that matter contains the instrument that actually helps, for date-driving in the toll does not help, and time-difference or differentiation in relation to emissions per vehicle does not help. We need to address the issue in concrete terms, and there are three instruments that local authorities need. They've got one, that is. the introduction of environmental zones in parts of cities. This allows local transport of goods to be caught, where emissions have to be reduced. The second is that you have to have the opportunity to say no to diesel cars on the most polluted days, and that is for them in concrete terms, it does not help to say no to petrol cars when it has become so bad that you exceed the emission limits that are. The third is that the State must be able to assist in the provision of bypasses, so that heavy transport can run around the most polluted areas in the days in which this is the case. There is nothing else that gives rise to an effect towards meeting the limit values in the most polluted days. So just when it comes to reducing air pollution, the state has to be a partner to cities to reduce emissions in the long term, and you have to work systematically to do this. But the most important thing to keep the limit values is to get the two remaining instruments that you do not have today. There are bans on diesel cars on the most polluted days and there are redeployments for heavy goods vehicles. Then, of course, a system of environmental zones must be put in place as quickly as possible, so that cities can start planning, or implementing, even by it. Then this proposal would make any sense, it should not be that the State should be able to fine the municipalities – it should be the opposite, that it was the municipalities that had the authority, that had the opportunity to fine the State. For just when it comes to air pollution, it is government that has not shown any action. We have the opportunity to do that with the decisions that we've made in the past. The fact that the government comes back with the necessary proposals on the order that has been made, by adding some kind of fine to the municipalities, will have no effect. From the history of who is responsible for the pollution, it would be totally unreasonable to go into such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1850	If Oslo Municipality or its underlying offices in the municipality of Oslo emits environmental pollutants in the rivers of Oslo, so that fish die, the municipality is fined by the state. If the Municipality of Oslo conducts a policy of transport and other policies that involve the death of people, there is no penalty from the state. So it's supposed to say that people in Oslo have less protection than animals if they're exposed to environmental crime. We can't have it like that. In this case, we have made a number of proposals to give the State more coercive funds to municipalities that do not do their job of securing their citizens' fresh, clean and not harmful air. I notice that both the Council of State and most of the other parties reject the state's need for such coercive measures, given that they believe fines are inappropriate. Then I ask the Council of State: What kind of coercive measures does the Council of State think she and the State need to make sure that they give clear notice to the municipalities that they can expect reactions if they do not do their job of caring for their health and the environment? That's the question to the Council of State. The second is that I expect a response from the Council of State to whether the Council of State agrees with the majority of the Committee in the following note: ‘The majority consider it problematic that some parties in Stortinget want to punish municipalities for emissions that the municipalities do not currently have the means to reduce effectively.’ Then my question is: does the Council of State share the description of the reality that municipalities today do not have the ability – not the means to fulfil – the task that they have been given by the State? In that case, I would say that it is dangerous if it is such that the state has given the municipalities a task, but not given them the means to implement it. Then I expect the government council responsible, Tine Sundtoft, to come to Stortinget as soon as possible with an instrument package with tools that she believes the municipalities need to implement. This is a description that is not shared by the other parties – the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We believe that municipalities have the means to implement measures. There is no excuse to expose their citizens to harmful air. So I want to point out two things as well as taking up the suggestions that are here. If we look at health, it is not that both the representative from the Labour Party and the representative from the Left were in, just the single days that are the only one that is dangerous. Some days kill people, show figures from the Institute of Public Health – the risk of people dying from heart and lung disease. But there are also other things that are dangerous. It is the average pollution, including: of NO2, having the largest exceedances. We will come back to that in a later case on Stortinget. Dust pollution in some of the largest cities does not in all cases break the requirements of the air quality directive approved by Norway, but it is harmful to health. It is harmful to health in relation to current recommendations and it is harmful to health in relation to the recommendations of the Institute for Public Health. In other words, we have harmful air – due to NO2 and due to dust. It is necessary to intervene. It is my clear belief that the municipalities could have done a better job, that they could have implemented measures that were sufficient. I still notice that the same parties in their municipalities, Bergen and Oslo, believe that, for example. Environmentally-differentiated tolls are an essential instrument for tackling diesel cars, as was the case with Elvesuen. It is the same parties that voted in favour of these proposals when SV brought them up in a previous case that we dealt with here in Stortinget. If you think that the instruments are missing, it is at least strange to vote off the instruments that their own municipalities have taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1884	The representative Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1887	Despite the overall improvement in air quality in Norway over the last decades, several Norwegian cities have continued to exceed the current local air quality limit values. This is, as you know, a problem which ESA is also concerned with, and in the light of previous year’s exceedances of the limit values, ESA has recently appealed to Norway before the EFTA Court for an infringement of the Air Quality Directive. There is evidence that local air pollution causes negative health consequences for people living there. The government is therefore working to improve local air quality. The draft representative shall promote, inter alia: legislative proposals to enable the State to impose fines on municipalities that breach air quality limit values. I see that there are challenges to the work of municipalities to ensure good local air quality. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as well as the Committee on Energy and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, is represented by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. that the municipality is not able to impose specific measures on the polluter. I believe that the solution is not necessarily to fine municipalities that do not comply with the limit values. I think we can get far by working with the municipalities in this field, among other things. by providing the municipalities with sufficient space for action and guidance on how to improve local air quality. Several municipalities have called for further and more targeted instruments to reduce NO2 emissions. For example, the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Oslo have: requested access to the establishment of low-emission zones. The government has therefore started work on assessing the need for additional instruments in this area and, as part of this, has decided to facilitate the establishment of low-carbon zones in municipalities that want it. However, this requires an amendment of existing legislation. In addition, the Environment Directorate is now following up the work of local authorities on action studies more closely. In 2014, a guide on action investigations was developed, which is a proposal on how the municipality can organise the work on action investigations and on how to design these investigations. The national audit has undertaken an administrative audit of the authorities’ work to ensure good air quality. The audit report is expected to be available in the summer of 2015. I believe, like the majority of the Committee, that it is appropriate to await any assessment of the existing legislation until the Riksrevision has presented its findings. For this government, it is important that we cooperate well with the municipalities and have closer cooperation than the previous government did. I don't think we deserve to split the state and the municipality on this important question. Good cooperation and good overall instruments are needed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1919	Thanks to the Council of State for the article. We have understood that this is the cooperation line that applies. I also think you're going the longest with the cooperation line, but there's still a couple of points here that I think it's worth drilling on. I read a sentence here: ‘The majority consider it problematic that some parties in Stortinget want to punish municipalities for emissions that the municipalities do not currently have the means to reduce effectively.’ My question is: does the Council of State consider that the municipalities today do not have effective means of ensuring that the air quality of the cities they govern is sound and healthy? And if the Council of State agrees, when will she come to Stortinget with a package of instruments that will enable the municipalities to carry out the work of fresh air for their citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1931	I believe that the municipalities already have some tools that they can use today. Then it is obvious that the municipalities here have asked for more tools. As I said in my post, we are now also working to introduce low-emission zones. However, it requires a legislative change, so that there is a legislative process in which we draw up a legislative proposal to be consulted and promoted by the Stortinget. Of course, we are also working to follow up what the Stortinget has decided to limit car use on the highways in periods when air pollution is high, so we come back to Stortinget with more instruments. I have also asked the law department to look at the possibility of refusing ships that want to do so, to add port – among other things. The mountain when air quality is bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1940	Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State states that today the municipalities have sufficient means to provide the citizens with good air, but that she will provide additional instruments to the municipalities. I think that's a good idea. I have a couple of follow-up questions. There are in particular two instruments that will be targeted. One is that heavy tyres in the big cities account for most of the re-suspension of dust that creates all the dust pollution that is harmful to health. There are, among other things: Oslo wanted to be able to increase her tipping fee in order to get even fewer people to drive with high tires. Does the Council of State consider the possibility for municipalities to decide more on their own the level of the charge for heavy-duty tyres? The other applies to environmentally differentiated tolls. Does the Council of State see the possibility – which means that the government parties have voted this down, at the latest in the past in the spring – of introducing environmentally differentiated toll charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1949	For this government, it is also an important principle to maintain local self-government, where it is up to the municipalities themselves to choose which means they think are wise and good to implement in order to improve air quality in their municipalities. Municipalities have many tools to improve air quality today. They have asked for more tools, which we are now investigating. And then we're busy working closely with the municipalities around this and not that one could get a certain impression from the previous government, which was more to throw the ball between the municipalities and the state. We are engaged in a good cooperation with the municipality within this. It is the municipalities that test these issues, but the state needs to help, which we, among other things. is now making a higher commitment to public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1954	I would say that the red-green government also meant what the Council of State meant in its reply to me instead, namely that the municipalities have the means to succeed in this, but I fully agree that there is room to give the municipalities more tools. Therefore, my question – back again to the two very specific instruments that the two largest municipalities have asked for: Bergen and Oslo, the Right-led City Council, have both asked for the possibility to introduce environmentally differentiated toll rates, just to get away from a good part of the most NO2-rich, diesel-containing cars, also trucks. Do the Councils see the possibility of environmentally differentiated tolls? And the second is the tipping fee: Will the Council consider giving Oslo the municipality the opportunity to increase the tipping fee so that even fewer people will drive with high tires in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1962	I have now mentioned several areas where we are now working to come back with the tools that the municipalities have asked for. Some of the most important municipalities have been concerned about, are just being able to look at a low-emission zone. We also look at environmentally differentiated tolls and investigate them in order to obtain the technical tools in the Autopass chips. We're looking at a lot of this, but for us, it's an important principle that the municipalities themselves choose the instruments they use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1969	That is why I am addressing the tools that the municipalities themselves have asked for. I am pleased that the Council of State says that the government also assesses environmental-differentiated taxes and looks at the kind of technical possibilities there are. The second main track is dust – harmful dust – which does not necessarily break all the requirements of the EU but which is in absolute violation of the recommendations of the Health Directorate and which the Minister for the Environment himself is behind. There's the question of a heavy-duty charge. Will the State Council consider either increasing the peak tyre charge or providing the municipalities requesting it with the possibility of introducing an increased peak tyre charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1976	In the rounds that have been around several instruments that the municipalities think they need, the increase in the impact on the tyres has not been some of the things that have been promoted. It has been mentioned in other matters that have been promoted that we are now working on. But again it is just to answer: I am concerned that the municipalities themselves also assess this. If this is an important tool, it will also be promoted by these cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1982	I have a pretty simple question. When the Council of State is going to come back with a case to the Stortinget with proposals for measures that could limit the use of cars on national roads during periods when air pollution is high, my question is: Will it also contain the possibility of banning diesel cars on the most polluted days and will it contain the possibility of getting heavy traffic to drive on bypass roads on the most polluted days?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1987	The Council of State is well aware of what the Storting decided to do, asking the government to investigate the means that big cities can use to limit the use of cars. We wish, among other things: to look at any differentiated diesel ban, focusing primarily on passenger cars outside of business. We have to get back to Stortinget with proposals for instruments. But the decision of the Storting is quite clear in this area. And several of the big cities have also asked for more tools. But we're working on that. Just when we get back, and what we're doing, I can't answer exactly right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1992	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e1997	That's the last question that's absolutely crucial. When it comes to limiting pollution in the most polluted days, there are three things that need to be done: These are low-emission zones. Then you can take the local utility traffic and make it cleaner over time, but set conditions to travel to the central parts of the city. It is effective and important – we finally have a decision on that. The second is: it is fine with environmentally-differentiated bombings that we have today. The zero-emission vehicles don't pay, the fossil cars pay, and then you have the heavy transport, which pays more. If you do this in several rounds, I think it should be a local assessment. But it doesn't help in those days when you already have too much pollution. Then you have to go more directly to work, and it's the diesel that's the big problem. Then we have to create a system where it's possible to have a roundabout around the central parts of the cities in these days. It will require some investments on the bypass, including: because there may be problems with schools and other things. But the severity of air pollution is so strong, because here there is an increase in mortality, that it is absolutely necessary to look at the possibility as well and be willing to invest in the measures you need to take in order to have re-run. Yes, of course, municipalities have instruments to reduce their emissions. But if there's one thing they're also using, it's just that. If we compare the state and the big cities and the one I know best, which is Oslo, the climate and environmental strategy for Oslo is far ahead of what the state has been willing to implement in the past and has a systematic approach in its efforts to reduce emissions far beyond what national authorities are willing to do, whether it is in the transport sector, it is to remove oil fires, or it is within the waste system, which is perhaps the most modern in Europe. That's how we can go area by area. Fortunately, additional instruments are now being introduced, only such simple measures as providing a sign authority for faster cycling measures. It's spent eight years getting in place – now it's finally in place. But big and small must go in the same direction. I would also like to remind the Red-Green parties that the greatest collective effort that is now being made in Oslo, i.e. the Lørenswingen, is being carried out without one government crown from the previous government. So it's good that we've now got a new majority, where we're fighting to go the farthest percentage you're going to contribute to the big collective effort in the big cities, but it's clear that it's the shift that's done this. This was also possible in the past, but it was not used. It's just that we now have a new majority, which has a different will, which makes this possible. But that's how you have to work. Making a ban or punishing is not the way to go, as the proposals here are based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2016	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2030	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2037	Norway has been the victim of major natural disasters over the last few years through flooding, fire and escape. Municipalities and county councils have had an important part of the responsibility for local infrastructure and for the remediation of these natural disasters. This entails substantial costs for which there is no coverage within the ordinary budgetary framework. The background to this case is the flood event in the West in the autumn of 2014, which caused significant damage to nature and property, and the event has led to a major need to clean up and repair security measures and new safeguards to prevent further damage after the flood. These are necessary measures that are urgently needed. In many cases where emergency measures have been implemented so far, additional measures will have to be followed up, where there is repair of existing securing facilities, and where a take-off takes masses from refilled rivers. In addition, there is an increased need for discretionary means to partially compensate for increased costs of managing the acute crisis situation and for cleaning up and restoring damaged municipal/communal infrastructure to its original level, with increased protection against new damage. For this reason, the government proposes to increase the value of the discretionary funds for the municipalities concerned by 150 million. kr in addition to the adopted financial framework for 2015. Furthermore, the government proposes to increase the proceeds to Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, by 112 million. kr in addition to the adopted financial framework for 2015, broken down by 2 million. NOK 109 million for operating expenses. kr for Flemish and tailor-made construction and 1 million. kr for the purpose of Flemish and tailor-made construction. The government also proposes to extend the mandate to impose obligations beyond the given permission, from 100 million. NOK 180 million. kr. I am pleased that a joint committee is major in the government's proposals for changes to the government budget for 2015, and I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox In the case of the next case, case no. 10, it looks like we have a problem, because neither the interpellant nor the state councils are there. We have been told that it takes approx. Ten minutes until the Council of State arrives. The President will propose that we take a 10-minute break. It will be called twice before we start again. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 15,29. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:33.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2063	Now we're ready to move on in the processing of today's maps. The President would point out that it is totally unacceptable that you do not relate to the time you are supposed to be here – it concerns both the Council of State and interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2081	Few manage to predict the future. Nevertheless, I dare to claim that we are facing some major challenges in terms of skills in the ICT industry in the coming years. We are in the midst of a digital revolution, a technological revolution that changes so to say everything around us: the production of goods and services, the way we communicate, the way we work, and the way we learn. Jobs disappear, new ones show up. Industries are experiencing dramatic changes in a short time, and opportunities seem formidable. In the 1960s, the leading experts were convinced that these self-guided, electronic numerical machines were no one who wanted to enter their own house. A market in a few across the United States, maybe? Today we all go around with a very powerful computer in our pocket and back up with a phone as part of the whole package. All parts of society will be part of and dependent on ICT. Private and public sectors, all enterprises and public services must have operational ICT systems. As residents of a high-cost country like ours we know that it is in digitisation that the large productivity gains can be taken out. It concerns the health sector, the police, the defence, the hub, the tax system, the municipal sector, etc. It is said that an enquiry on paper costs 80 kroner, on telephone 40 kroner, digitally 4 kroner. Savings are huge and necessary. Some floors have gone ahead. The self-declaration shall be delivered within two days and shall be delivered online. Many of us still remember the queue of cars that delivered envelopes in the hatches of the local equation office before midnight. Now the declaration is in the digital mailbox – and we take it for granted. The Loan Fund is another good example of an establishment that is ahead of digital development. However, systems are still massive and should be digitised. For mass forms are still scanned, which means large unnecessary costs. And even though we as users fill out a form online, it's printed on the other end because the receiving systems are not in place. The history of health records sent in taxis between hospitals is also a frightful example of the misuse of resources in a health sector that should be operated more efficiently. In the private sector, there is a high growth potential and new opportunities for new industrial activities. The discussion about what we're going to live on after the oil is going evenly. Sometimes you can get the impression that this “something” has to be something completely different and especially than what we’re doing today. I don't really believe that. The transition here will be moving, and many of the jobs we're going to have in the future are here today. Not least the ICT industry. But then we have to have competent people. Today, companies are losing their jobs because of a lack of ICT skills. The situation is therefore this: lack of ICT people threatens productivity and competitiveness, and the necessary transformation and development in key societal areas will not be feasible. There's no new issue I'm dealing with. This was a theme most recently at the Stockholm hearing on the state budget last autumn. In addition, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is on an externally-made report that tells us that Norway is heading towards a critical lack of competence in ICT. The under-coverage is in a place between 24 and 113 pst., meaning that at best one of four posts will be unoccupied. I'm excited to hear what the Council of State's assessment of this is, and what he's going to do to remedy the situation. But what do we mean in the Workers' Party? A good start is to set up study places in the field of ICT and technology. The applicants are there. This year, there are more than two first-choice applicants per post-graduate degree at the University of Oslo. NTNU can also offer more places of study, and they also have flukes with applicants. There is reason to be a little aware of this, because we have seen it before: the study demand is going on in waves, and it is not unproblematic with the rapid development of some subjects in the UH sector. It will be difficult if the search is reduced. It has to do with the funding system. But then we should play on the skills we find outside the UH sector. The Research Council's evaluation of this type of technology shows that some of the strongest professional environments in ICT are outside the UH sector. The evaluation is also aimed at stimulating more cooperation between the leading professional communities in the institute sector and the universities and higher education institutions. Free capacity, experience of close contact with the labour market in the institute sector can contribute to this by taking a greater part of the guidance, which will relieve universities, which have experienced fluctuations in the subjects before. Secondly, digital skills should enter the entire educational cycle — from kindergarten, primary school, secondary school to both study specialisation and professional. Here it's worth mentioning the project Learn Kidsa Coding, as I know that Councillor Røe Isaksen has seen and experienced in a classroom. It should also enter the vocational school and Bachelor's and Master's programmes, of course, especially in the professional studies. There is little point in stimulating entrepreneurs to contribute with new welfare technologies if they do not use the technology by the nurses or health professionals because they do not have training in it. Many decision-makers in the public sector need to have the skills to handle the ordering function better than we see today in ICT systems. There have been enough debates in the main room on large budget exceedances related to ICT. A number of articles include: In today's business, this type of issue has been highlighted and the challenges we have associated with the lack of ICT skills. It has also been a theme that many jobs are added to India, the Baltic States, Ukraine and other countries with a partially highly educated population and lower wages. We will probably continue to see that in the future. First of all, however, this development is not desirable, and in addition, it is not entirely possible to allow foreign workers to take these jobs. How will an IT consultant in India be able to tailor solutions for the Nav, the police or the Defense? Special environments requiring security clearance, such as the FFI, for example, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, have been struggling for a long time to obtain sufficient skilled labour, because they cannot employ foreign nationals, who often have this type of real-life competence. A lot of the North are missing it. Particular mention must be made of teacher training. Technology offers unparalleled opportunities for adapted training, more varied and motivating education and to manage to limit bureaucracy in school. It's new technology that's the only thing that will really succeed in catching the time thieves. ICT must also be part of the continuing training of teachers. Mathematics is good and good, and the Workers' Party supports the continuing training promise. But we make a big mistake if we leave to the individual teacher how to use new technology in school. There is an urgent need for teacher training. They cannot be aware that the most advanced are those who are most advanced in the use of new technologies in school. The trade schools represent only 6 pst. Of the student mass, but they produce 13 pst. by the candidates. They work more closely in the workplace and business than in the higher education sector. Candidates from there have important roles related to the operation of IT systems and welfare technology. Professional schools are catching up faster on changes in needs, integrating in relevant subjects, and they are working very closely with the business community. Therefore, they are important in building up ICT training. There is no time to mention all types of education at all levels, but I have to mention an example from a professional background. It is worrying to hear that the ICT curriculum for service and transport is totally irrelevant, in order to use the words of professionals. There's another area we have to do something about. Then, of course, it has to be focused on research. Technology is essential, both in the research communication and in the long-term research plan. We have to bet there. And it's followed up with more resources, among other things. to leading environments such as Simula on Fornebu. However, ICT settings at selected universities are also important. Here I want to mention Gjøvik and Halden as examples of this, where the business world around us flourishes just because we've got a bet on ICT. We must continue this work and intensify it. This is one of the answers to what we're going to live on in the future. Moreover, the productivity gains for industry are quantifiable in this respect. There is a great need for simplification in the public sector that can be solved in this way, and in addition, we need labour to perform the many tasks that cannot be digitised – in education and in health and care in particular. The government has been made aware of this since it moved into government offices, but we have seen very little action, not least in study places. We have not been given a single new study place in the budgets presented by the Solberg Government. Now I'm excited about how the Council of State sees itself working further and strategically on this great challenge we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2125	On behalf of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the DAMVAD consultancy agency has analysed the future need for advanced ICT competence in Norway. The report shows, as the interpellant also points out, that the need will increase in particular in the private service sector. In the public sector, there is also a growing need for safety, health and education. As the representative Marianne Aasen refers to, this could lead to Norway missing people in one of four ICT jobs in 2030 in the worst case. This may represent a shortage of up to 10000 people. The great upheaval we've seen in the oil industry in recent years shows how demanding it is to dictate long-term needs. Professionals who previously applied to the oil industry may now turn to ICT-related jobs in other parts of the world of work to a greater extent than in the past. This can, in the middle of all the negatives, also have a positive side. It can provide ground for new innovation and transformation and contribute to the creation of new jobs in Norway. I am concerned that Norwegian working life should have good access to ICT skills, so that we can take advantage of the future opportunities offered by technology development in all parts of society. This requires targeted work, and it requires that we also assess a number of instruments at educational level. The government will follow-up both in initial training, higher education, research and to the labour market. We have to start by changing the culture of real science, so that more students get professional prerequisites to choose ICT and technology courses in higher education. Good knowledge of mathematics and other real science is an important basis for making use of all the opportunities offered by ICT. The government is therefore working on a new real-life strategy. All children and young people must experience the joy of mastering the real subjects. Mathematics must not be perceived as a barrier to success in further education. At the same time, we also need to give high-performance students better opportunities to realize their skills in real science. I have also noticed the voluntary initiative mentioned by the representative of Aasen, namely to teach Kidsa coding, as in particular. work for students to understand and master their own role in the digital society. This measure can help to increase the recruitment of ICT professionals and better understand the importance of ICT development in the labour market. DAMVAD’s report shows that we have over 150 studies that offer advanced ICT skills at the bachelor’s or master’s level. Offers are spread across 23 educational institutions and distributed throughout the country. A majority of these ICT studies are aimed at technical qualifications that are often achieved through information technology studies or engineering training. In addition, ICT studies are offered with a more interdisciplinary focus. This may, for example: be ICT-design, ICT-health and ICT-safety combinations. The DAMVAD report points out that greater attention should be paid to such multi-disciplinary offers as well. The Ministry of Knowledge does not – and should not – govern the number of courses offered by universities and universities in the field of ICT. Institutions are responsible for dimensioning study provision in line with national and regional needs and the institution's own profile, priorities and resources. We assume that institutions actively cooperate with the industry and the labour market when ICT capacity and study provision are developed. Councils for cooperation with the labour market will be an important forum for cooperation here. It is also necessary to cooperate on continuing education and training that can contribute to the continuous development of ICT skills for the workforce. In this context, basic labour skills, BKA, are also worth mentioning. I would encourage both private and public actors to profile themselves more actively in student environments to motivate more people to apply for ICT training. Perhaps simple schemes such as trainers and summer jobs can be relevant instruments. DAMVAD’s survey of study provision shows that we have nationally expanded a wide range of services in advanced ICT competence in higher education. Institutions should therefore be well equipped to increase the admission of students if the labour market demands such competence. The communication on the structure of higher education, which is now being treated in the United Kingdom, will also increase the number and intensity of professional environments in ICT. Robust and sustainable professional environments are particularly important in a field of ongoing change, and new forms of study provision still need to be considered because technology creates new opportunities. Important challenges in the future seem to be recruiting more students for the courses and motivating more students to complete the studies. Figures from the Coordinated Recording show that there has been an increase in the search for information technology and mathematics in recent years. New figures for 2015 show an increase in the number of first-choice applicants of more than 17,5 pst. in this area. There are now a total of 3,473 first choice applicants for information technology. It allows institutions to increase admission to education in accordance with the recommendations of the DAMVAD report. There are now 2.2 applicants per study place in information technology. Increased competition for study places contributes to a higher level of intake, thereby allowing more people to complete more quickly. In the coming quality notification of higher education, the Ministry of Knowledge will also carefully assess measures that can help more students in higher education to complete a normal course of study. In the DAMVAD report, there was a great need for more PhD candidates, i.e. doctoral candidates, in ICT. This is a need also highlighted in other reports. The Ministry of Knowledge therefore allocated 30 new recruitment posts in 2015 to follow up on the MNT subjects, with particular emphasis on ICT. The government has just presented an action plan for higher education and research to which the Stortinget has joined. The long-term plan refers to ICT as an enabling technology. The development of enabling technologies contributes to new solutions that can be applied in the vast majority of areas of society. At the same time, enabling technologies shall be underpinned by the other priorities of the long-term plan. The government will follow up the priorities of the long-term plan in the coming years. A separate national R & D, research and development strategy, for ICT, has also been developed that provides the basis for further efforts. Digitalisation in the labour market, both in the private and public sectors, is progressing rapidly. We're going to be careful to predict in what direction and with what consequences technology is changing our society. We know that technological progress will have a major impact on all occupational groups, and we know that the working environment is still changing. A knowledge-based society and business to compete internationally depends on a workforce capable of developing increasingly efficient and innovative production processes. This is also an important point, supported by the Commission’s first report on productivity. The government will therefore facilitate us to have more experts in ICT as well as people with multidisciplinary skills. This will also be a theme in the Communication on ICT Policy, which the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will promote for the Stortinget during 2016. I look forward to continuing to work on this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2161	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I find that the Council of State has read up on reports in the field, and gives us a good overview of the situation as it is. But I have a few comments attached to it. I feel that the Council of State is depriving itself of the responsibility for taking action in this field, primarily because it is up to the institutions themselves to decide whether to set up more places of study. Of course, it is possible for a government and a government council to decide that we should set up more study places in real science and ICT. That is also what the institutions are asking for. There is a lot of talk about students getting more interested in real science and ICT. It's all right, but that's also what happened. It's an increase in real science. There are others who want to study ICT. We should then create more places of study. I think it would have been a clear signal, and it would have been quite concrete. It would also have meant that more people came into the study they wanted in the first place, which would also help raise the level of implementation, especially because there is a major shortage of people with ICT education in business. As I understand those who have been at the hearing, and with whom the Storting is often in contact with in the workplace and business, the more finished candidates want. Then they address us as politicians to grant money and set up study places. Then, of course, there's a room for action for the institutions, but if you're going to get power and volume on this in relation to what's needed, it has to be far more than that. I would say that the Council of State replied a little disappointingly. Secondly, there was also a talk about new technology in school, but I do not think that the Council of State has any specific proposals. Learn Kidsa Coding is basically driven by idealists and parents and others who are particularly interested in ICT and programming, and who do this as a sort of hard work to a greater or lesser degree, but it doesn't last. We cannot conduct ICT training in Norway properly. We need to have a more systematic approach to that. Therefore, I am also a little surprised – and slightly disappointed – that the teacher training was not mentioned. It's not that real science is equal to math. Mathematics is one of many real science, and ICT is a very central real science. I would then also like the government and the government to see that ICT is a part of the real trades union effort to a greater extent than what has been done, especially when it comes to gaining ICT as a completely cross-cutting investment in continuing education and training for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2172	Thank you for the comments from the representative of Aasen. First of all about the DAMVAD report: this is new work in itself, just so it's said. This is the first time you have had such a comprehensive review of ICT subjects, where both industry and the academic community have contributed. It also gives us a very good starting point for a discussion of what kind of needs we have, and how we're going to solve it. So I fully agree that we need to strengthen our digital skills in school as well. I don't think the problem is that the digital skills on paper don't have enough space in school. It is of the basic skills in school: reading, writing, billing, oral presentation and digital skills. The problem is probably somewhere else. There is enough variation between schools in digital skills, and there is reason to believe that in several of the teacher’s courses teachers are not prepared to use digital tools and tools in a good enough way in school. I'll answer an interpellation about that later. That's something we have to have with us. That's good representative Aasen reminds me of that. There's something we need to have with us when we're now discussing what a new teacher education should be like. So, of course, it is that, yes, it is possible to take political initiatives, and the Ministry of Knowledge and Government can set up new places of study. I'm not saying that it's irrelevant, but the whole core of our higher education system is that the institutions that are have to respond to the needs of the labour market. We've taken initiatives. We have set up a three-year project to develop an overall system for analysing and disseminating skills needs in the labour market. But if the institutions are unable to respond to the fundamental changes that take place in Norwegian working life, and fundamental changes in the kind of skills needed, then we have a much bigger problem than just ICT. So I think that initially we have to assume that the institutions answer that. Then we have to take responsibility for the knowledge of our skills needs, and we have to take responsibility for research efforts, doctoral education and, in general, also of course for the quality of the ICT offers, whether they are related to shorter professional training courses close to work practices or more research-intensive offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2183	Just as the Council of State is also concerned that Norwegian working life has good access to ICT skills, so that we can take advantage of the future opportunities offered by technology development in all parts of society. This requires that we work in a targeted way and assess a range of instruments at all levels of education. I am therefore very pleased that the government and the Minister of Knowledge are warning that they will follow up on this both in the work on teacher training and also in the initial training, higher education, research and not least the working life. The DAMVAD report highlighted a major need for more PhD candidates to be involved in ICT. This is a need also highlighted in other reports. That the civil parties strengthen education budgets and higher education so that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Minister could distribute 30 new recruitment posts in 2015, and thus follow up the MNT subjects with particular emphasis on ICT, is therefore very enjoyable in this context. However, the foundation is laid early in the course of education. The application numbers from the Coordinated Recording show that there has been an increase in information technology and informatics in recent years. New figures for 2015 show an increase in the number of first-time applicants by over 17,5 pst. So in this area, there are now a total of 3,473 first-choice information technology seekers. This gives institutions the opportunity to increase, where appropriate, the admission to education, which is fully consistent with the DAMVAD report, and is a good starting point for future growth and opportunities. With 2.2 applicants per study place, there is also a point that we are getting more competition for the study places, and this in turn contributes to a higher intake level and thus the possibility that more actually complete the studies more quickly and not least pass. There is also good news in the target against several high-level ICT trainers in Norway. It is also important to think even earlier about ICT in the educational cycle, not least in order to ensure a good distribution of the necessary skills and subsequent recruitment into right-hand education. I have therefore followed with interest, among other things. Akershus County Council's application for a separate ICT subject at Bleier secondary school. I know that the county council at these times is in dialogue with the Education Directorate to start its experiment, and the proposal has among other things. interest and support from NHO, Abelia, Work, ICT Norway and a large number of enterprises both inside and outside these organisations. High-level vocational training is important in order to contribute to the digitisation of the public sector, including: because it is able to release ICT staff with higher education for more design tasks and which require a higher level of competence. This can help to improve the use of resources in both the private and the municipal sectors, which are important in expanding ICT training throughout the education cycle. I am therefore also looking forward to the results of the work on a new major communication on ICT policy launched by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. This will constitute the Digital Agenda of the Right-wing Party Government and work will take place in close dialogue with the departments concerned, including the Ministry of Knowledge, and the Minister of Knowledge. Through many experience with ICT projects in the public sector, we see that there is a need for a general ICT competence in public management. This is how we will be able to avoid the many large exceedances that we have unfortunately read about, and which have contributed to large billions of deficits in key ICT actions in our service provision. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in sum, the measures that the government is taking, and the measures that will be taken by the government in the future, will be important and good measures to meet the many unknown needs of our growing knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2201	It is a very important matter that the representative Marianne Aasen addresses in his interview. It is a major challenge that access to ICT skills in Norway is too poor. Conditions must be provided for real value creation, not least given that the oil price is likely to stabilise at a level far below the record prices we have seen in recent years. In an interview on the book ‘A Valuable Norway’, Torgeir Reve said that knowledge investment in maritime food, energy, maritime industries and ICT is particularly important in Norway. It was in 2001. The need for investment in these industries is also evident in the BI’s major research project ‘Knowledge-based Norway’, which was published in the book with the same name, among others. Reve was standing behind, and that came out in 2012. In other words, there's no new problem with the axis here, unfortunately. The need for people with ICT skills is high in almost all sectors, and not least in the public sector. In addition, the ICT industry is one of the major value drivers in Norway. It is among the largest industries in Norway, with some 70,000 employees. In this context, it is essential to look in particular at fields such as ICT and real science in the context of both education policy and industrial policy. The EU digital agenda states that about half of future productivity growth will come from ICT use. It's a huge potential. The long-term plan for research and higher education presented by the government is a milestone in this way. For the first time, a plan is presented which gives predictability and long-termity to business and research and education environments. The government has ambitious objectives for investing in research infrastructures, recruitment positions and how to ensure good participation in European research cooperation Horizon 2020, which has also been agreed by the Stortinge. The plan also indicated that the research allocation would be escalated to 1 pst. by GDP, and the Government aims to achieve this target, with current prospects for GDP, around 2019-2020. The government and the bulk of the population have followed up the plan in 2015 with about 700 million. kr, e.g. with a focus on world-leading professional environments, nutrient-oriented research and good participation in Horizon 2020. Industrial research and efforts in petroleum research, marine research and enabling technologies such as nanotechnologies, biotechnology and, in particular, ICT have been strengthened, both in 2014 and in the 2015 budget. In addition, the FORNY2020 programme has strengthened the commercialisation process in 2015. The new national real-life strategy shall be submitted by the government during 2015. And here, too, I hope it's going to be long-term and complete. If we are to get more skilled students, students and researchers in ICT in both the short and long term, Norwegian students need to get better in the real world, especially in mathematics and the natural sciences. Then we need to strengthen local efforts in each municipality and school and kindergarten. We need to strengthen real-life and ICT skills in teacher training, on which the representative of Aasen was right, and we need to strengthen ICT education at both post-secondary, university and university levels. Government and government parties have as their objective the building of tomorrow's knowledge society. Norway needs to change in order to ensure jobs and well-being in the future. An important key is increased quality in higher education and research. This is why resources will be concentrated in fewer but stronger universities and higher education in all regions. Small, vulnerable professional environments and many scattered, small training provision with failed recruitment are the main challenges in the Norwegian university and higher education sector. Reasonable concentration and quality-building could lead to better opportunities for appropriate priorities and for more ICT places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2218	It is said that we live in the knowledge society, and that technology is one of the main driving forces in social development – and really these are two aspects of the same thing. It is difficult to predict, as the interpellant said, but one thing we know, and that is that the need for ICT skills in the workforce will increase significantly over the next ten to fifteen years. For approx. A year ago, an investigation was presented by DAMVAD and Societal Economic Analysis, which estimated that there would be a need for a significant increase in the number of ICT workers in the years to come, from 17 000 in 2000 to 55 000 in 2030. The same report showed that if we keep our pace today, public and business will lack more than 10,000 people with advanced ICT skills in 2030. The report states that if we are to achieve these objectives, much more needs to be done than today in high-level ICT-related education. ICT transparency, as we know, today's society. At that time, it is also necessary for all young people to be able to become familiar with and control ICT early. Today we see kids who use tablets almost before they can walk, and cell phones have everyone. Access to ICT is much higher than before, and we have to meet this in school. And this is real science. The question is whether we adults are too slow and whether the teacher's skills are good enough. The understanding and competence of students in the use of ICT, and not least their interest in it, are crucial to the extent to which they choose studies and through them qualify for technology jobs as adults. It's also easier to motivate and understand mathematics that way. Every other year, ICT centres perform monitoring monitoring in order to investigate the digital status of schools. For 2030, the report shows that the objectives of competence in the curriculum are not met in terms of digital competence. I'm not going to go into it any further now, but leave it hanging as a back ground for the need debate on future ICT competence. I also think it is relevant in relation to the interpellation debate that we are going to have afterwards, which is about boys dropping out of school. By not helping to motivate them, do we lose potential future ICT students because we don't get into ICT and make it interesting enough in school? It has been well demonstrated that the need for advanced ICT competence is crucial both for the development of the welfare society and for the ability to realise the value creation potential of different industries. The centre party therefore shares the inter-pellant’s concerns about the under-covering of ICT competence, and that this needs to be resolved via multiple tracks, inter alia. by assessing the capacity of information technology and other direct ICT disciplines. However, it is equally important to develop interdisciplinary study services that provide advanced ICT skills in combination with other disciplines, especially in health, design, safety and management. A finding that is pointed out in the DAMVAD report that I have previously referred to is that there seems to be a growing gap between the supply and demand for high-level, multidisciplinary ICT training. Compared with findings in the national survey Digital status, carried out every three years, which demonstrates that higher education continues to have challenges, both in terms of exploiting the potential of technology in support of students' learning, and in terms of ensuring that students have similar experience and competence in the use of digital tools during the study period, this shows that the basis at lower level for building advanced ICT skills is uneven. The answer to the challenge is therefore not only a question of increasing the number of places of study in the Master and Doctoral Programmes, but that the entire university and higher education sectors have a challenge to raise ICT competence at all levels of their study portfolios, not least in ensuring multidisciplinary ICT competence. We have, as mentioned earlier, good environments both at Gjøvik, Oslo, Jørstadmoen, etc. We in the Central Party expect the government to follow up on this in its further work on dimensioning higher education and research, but also that it will be followed up in improving primary school and throughout the education cycle. And that's in elementary school it starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2237	Thank you for this small but informative debate we have now had on a very important topic. I want to make a few comments. The first one goes to the representative Sivert Bjørnstad, who rightly boasts that we have got a long-term research plan, which is good and good, and which was initiated by the previous government. I just want to point out that it was originally planned to be a plan for the number of places of study in the years to come. There is nothing in this long-term plan. The proposal from the red-greens was echoed by the position. Then we are at the heart of what was also raised by the Right Representative Kent Gudmundsen, and who is getting a very good point, I would say, in terms of the difference between the Workers' Party and the Right: It is a great pleasure in the Right to get more applicants, because then there will be increased competition for the study places, while what we are looking forward to in the Workers' Party is that the more people will take such training – and let us train more – especially when employment and business are desperately lacking. And when we know -- it's documented in reports the government has ordered -- that we need a lot, a lot more of this, I just think it's just to rejoice that competition is increasing, becomes a pretty defensive and takes on the approach to a very big challenge, which everyone who's been involved in the debate has underlined. I want to end with a question to the Council of State. He has now had the chance to say that he could increase the number of places of study in ICT or take other strategic steps in higher education. He has now said that he leaves to the institutions themselves to do so. Then I have a question about the profession. An application has been submitted, as was also mentioned in the debate here, for a new Vg1 course in a professional field, under the direction of Akershu County. As far as I know, it has been rejected. The question is whether the State Council would like to manage the Department and the Directorate in such a way that the Udir and the Ministry of Knowledge are positive in developing and establishing such a type of professional subject, according to the recognition that we need more ICT competence throughout the education cycle – from primary and secondary education to bachelor, master and doctoral degrees. Will the Council of State do that? This gives him a chance to give a concrete answer to the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2248	Thank you very much to the representative of Aasen for taking up the interpellation. I don't think this is a theme that we're done with. One reason for this is that one of the things that characterises future projections is that the situation tends to change gradually. But it is also obvious that the need for ICT competence, ICT education and knowledge in schools and higher education will increase in the coming years. I believe it is important that this is a natural part of teacher training. I believe that this is an important part of continuing training – i.e. both on-the-job and on-the-job training – and that what the representative of Aasen said could be an important tool in the fight against time thieves. I believe it is important that we strengthen research and education in this field, for example. through several doctoral programmes. I also believe that it is essential that we maintain that the UH sector has the primary responsibility to respond to the needs of the labour market. But it's our job as politicians, and my job as councillor, to make sure that it happens to the best possible extent. I have said that I will not rule out the possibility of creating more places of study in ICT, but above all, the main responsibility lies with the institutions. I am not going to conduct proceedings from Stortinget's pulpit, but I have said that I am generally in favour of trial schemes in school. My understanding is that there is a dialogue going on to find a way to set up experiments – in Akershus – that will try to achieve just this, that you can look at whether today’s subject is good enough. It fits well in with the work that we have announced, in line with the previous government stated in the Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, that we should go through all the professional programmes to see if they are adapted to the needs of the labour market. That work is now under way, together with, for example, the professional advice. It is quite natural, then, to start with the programmes that have the worst connection to working life. This is a field that can be mature for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2262	Case No. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2279	Today's theme is no longer something I contribute to daily at Stortinget, but it is a problem that I became involved with as I learned school policy in my first period at Stortinget – 2005-2009. Then I sat on the education committee and discovered that there was a clear, systematic difference between boys and girls in school. There was at the same time a performance difference that very few discussed, and that there was little attention around. I will also admit that I did not address it as a separate challenge or matter at the time. The reason for this is that the Hedmark bench had its annual January meeting with Fylkesmannen in Hedmark. There we got a review of the situation at school in Hedmark. It is a well-known fact that Hedmark has low educational challenges, and that performance is also low in national contexts. But there are points of light, and it's working well to raise the Hedmark school on the national performance curve. I'm happy and satisfied with that. But once again, we were presented with great differences, measured in terms of primary school credits, between boys and girls in achievements, and the differences between boys and girls are greater in Hedmark than they are in the rest of the country. The difference, measured in primary school credits, which were presented, showed that for the whole country, the difference in boys' disfavor is fairly constant at 4 primary school points, while it has varied more in Hedmark, but is on average 4.4 primary school points in boys' disfavor. To illustrate how different this is, Professor Thomas Nordahl has illustrated it to me. According to Thomas Nordahl, the differences in performance between boys and girls in Norwegian school are almost the same as the differences in performance between Finnish and Norwegian school. So it's pretty dramatic. What surprises me is that the difference is systematic, and it attracts very little attention. Few will be familiar with or claim that boys have weaker abilities than girls, and then these are systematic and persistent differences that deserve attention and focus. There was at least a debate on this at the meeting between Hedmarksbenken and Fylkesmannen, and at the same time I decided to bring the debate here to Stortinget in the form of an interpellation. In retrospect, there have been several local media surveys on the differences in schools. The title of a headline in Glamdalen on March 24 reads: «Narrow girls gruser boyta». The survey focuses on the differences between boys and girls in the school in southern Hedmark, and the differences between municipalities are also evident. In one municipality, the difference is a whole of 8 primary school points, while it's just 2 in another municipality. These variations are interesting in themselves. I hope the few think that boys from nature are weaker equipped than girls. If you think that there are essentially no significant differences between sexes on the one hand and nature on the other, you have a challenge that we should know more about on the other. I think it should be researched significantly more on this than I have been able to dig forward, and there should be a problem that should get significantly more attention in school policy than what we have given it so far. Because we know too well the consequences of not getting a good education. There are, of course, some exceptions, those who either perform poorly in school or choose to drop out of school, and who later make a great career in business and create their own wealth or safe life platform, but the chances of getting out of society and becoming dependent on social welfare are considerably greater. The success stories, on the other hand, have made it easy to get into the media, while all the individual who fail to make it disappear in the statistics. I've been discussing this with Professor Thomas Nordahl at the University of Hedmark. He has contributed more information, and it is very interesting there. The differences between boys and girls continue into higher education and are made visible by 65 pst. of the girls completing secondary education at the normal time, while only 50 pst. by the boys do it. If you take the perspective of passing within five years, it's 75 pst. of the girls who have passed, but only 65 pst. by boys. Looking at the professional distribution in terms of average characteristics, the girls are significantly better than the boys in Norwegian and English in writing, while mathematics is the point of light. There's a guy up there with the girls. If we go on and look at national tests, the difference between boys and girls is not great, if it can be said to be there at all. In national samples, girls score better than boys in reading, at both 5 and 8 stage, while boys score better than girls in both stages. This is interesting, because national tests are external evaluation, while primary school credits are much more dependent on the relationship between teacher and student. Teachers' perceptions of the students' knowledge and skills thus appear to help shape the performance of girls and boys as they arise in the form of primary school credits, and not least the assessment of their performance by teachers. In other ways, it cannot be interpreted that what national tests show is not entirely consistent with what primary school points and positions show. The consequences of boys getting lower primary and lower grades than girls are large. These are the judgments and not the national tests you bring with you when applying for further education. There, we know that the picture has changed dramatically in recent years, and the girls' overrepresentation of high-grade education is great. So there are some clear factors that point to the fact that the differences between boys and girls in school vary greatly from school to school and depend on the way the students are judged. These are both factors that the school has the ability to analyse and influence. Then the title of the Glamdalen – ‘Funny girls gruser boy’ – should not be attached as a truth to which nothing can be done. Rather, you have to address the challenge, analyse it and find the grip that can be taken to balance the differences. We know something about what creates a good school, and it's very similar to what a study found characterized schools where the differences in performance between boys and girls were small. Some characteristics that can characterise these schools are: high expectations for students for emphasising the development and maintenance of inclusive student environments emphasising positive and supportive relationships between students and teachers appear to be clear leaders in the classroom specific interest in reading by also finding reading material that interests boys In many ways, this can be said to be good public education. Several of these factors promote good learning for all students. One might wonder if the practice that is in many schools, with self-regulatory learning, is at the expense of boys. In this case, self-regulatory learning can also explain the great differences found between schools, because it is related to what kind of pedagogics are practiced. My point of bringing this to the square is that there are performance differences between boys and girls in school that we should not accept as naturalized. Differences in school results in completely different opportunities, and are crucial for the opportunities that open up for each one in the future. There are always exceptions that confirm the rule, but poor schooling and schooling results pose a high risk of not developing their potential later in life either. That's why I think the gender differences we see in school deserve more attention than they've gotten so far. I would have preferred to see practical follow-up research initiated, with the aim of finding out which instruments are effective in eliminating these differences. It doesn't keep saying that guys are more worried, have different focus or are more unfocused, when there's actually evidence that the schools themselves can do a lot to correct the imbalances. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2331	The representative Gunnar Gunnersen points out that there are differences in performance between boys and girls in school, and that we do not know enough about the reasons for this. I agree with that description a long time ago, but we know something anyway. The Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, has produced two knowledge overviews on gender differences and school performance for the Ministry of Knowledge. These knowledge surveys show that there is relatively little empirical research that directly demonstrates what causes and, where appropriate, maintains gender differences in school learning outcomes. A weakness is also the fact that research studies to a small extent the interaction between sex and other factors, such as gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, gender, However, there are studies that have tried to explain why and how gender differences arise in the school performance of students, and what helps to maintain the differences. In previous studies, researchers argued that the reasons for the differences were beyond school control, as a social background and other family factors, such as: the value theory of French sociologist Boudon, highlighting in many cases how school and education have different values for students with different social backgrounds. According to that theory, the motivation to perform in school is influenced by norms and values that individuals are influenced by from home and from the social environment of the family. Today, however, there is a greater consensus that factors in school control are also important for pupils’ performance at school, as the representative Gundersen also pointed out. Studies show that girls as a group appear to be more motivated to perform at school. They work more with schoolwork, and it may also look like boys are more dependent on internal motivation, as you call it, for them to do well. Some international studies also point out that teachers can easily assess girls in general as more high school than boys. This may in turn be related to the fact that girls seem to be more functional than boys in the classroom situation, once again based on studies and research. Gender differences in school performance are also associated with the perceptions of mainstream culture, i.e. among those of the same age. It may seem that girls are more easily accepted as both schooly and popular, while boys tend to develop a kind of ‘anti-school culture’, where in some settings there is neither male nor toughness to be good at school. A study of Thomas Nordahl and others has looked at the characteristics of schools where gender differences in school performance are relatively small. That's most interesting. The study finds that these schools are characterised by high professional expectations for all students and that they focus on the development of a good and inclusive learning environment. One also finds supportive and positive relationships between the student and the teacher and that the teachers appear to be clear leaders in the classroom. Schools are characterised by a specific interest in reading, with emphasis on finding reading material of particular interest to boys – again as highlighted by the representative Gundersen. This shows that factors such as good class management, good relationships between students and teachers, as well as an inclusive student community and clear expectations for students promote learning in all students. But we can probably say that it seems that the boys enjoy this kind of general, good pedagogical practice to a particular extent. In other words, a good school, a school with clear frameworks and a school with high expectations are most important to the students who need the school the most, and among the students there are many boys. So there is a knowledge of the teaching methods that show the relationship between education and learning outcomes for boys and girls. But it is a challenge that no more schools use this knowledge in the choice of teaching methods. We might generalise and say that it is a general challenge in Norwegian school that we should be much better at each school and in each municipality to see what are the latest results in education research, to discuss our own practices and see how to take advantage of new experiences from other schools. Many schools today have a pedagogical practice with a strong emphasis on self-regulated learning, where education is relatively highly individualised. It may seem that this pedagogical practice is somewhat more difficult for boys to master than girls — and again this is on average. Of course, it's a wake-up call. Awareness of gender differences in children and the development and learning of young people requires the competence of employees. Knowledge of, inter alia: the importance of biological and cultural differences for learning is necessary for good educational organisation in both kindergarten and school. Although there is no reason to assume that boys and girls will initially get different school results, there are some differences from nature. The government will increase knowledge of the factors that can explain the differences between boys and girls’ learning and development, in order to provide a better basis for more effective action. In particular, research into self-regulation and working methods is interesting both in kindergarten and in school. Self-regulation is e.g. learning to wait for a trip, to learn to concentrate on one thing, and it's an incredibly important basis for learning to read and write or to cut or wall. So especially interesting is research on self-regulation and working methods. The Ministry of Knowledge will therefore consider in the forthcoming gender equality report presented by the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion to outsource a research mission in order to gain more knowledge about this. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Knowledge has a number of initiatives aimed at improving training, with the aim of increasing learning outcomes for both boys and girls, and some of the bets that come, have special attention to the boys. Teacher-leaving, with the aim of providing highly skilled teachers, attractive high-quality teacher training and more career paths for teachers, can help ensure a school where students learn even more. Similarly, the funds for increasing teacher density from 1 to 4 stages, agreed in the budget for this year by the majority of the Stortingen parties, can also be used locally to strengthen, for example, 700 more teachers in primary school. the position of the outsourced students and hence the position of the boys. Being able to read and write is essential for mastering all subjects, and in the new read and write strategy that comes during the year, students with read and write difficulties, boys and students with a migrant background are specific target groups. So we're going to go beyond a general strategy for everyone and focus more on specific target groups. The strategy is based on pedagogical and school-based skills development and easily accessible pedagogical resources. The areas of action of the strategy include language development, reading and language-stimulating activities in kindergarten and the transition between kindergarten and school. Particular attention shall be paid to the first writing and reading training and the importance of reading and writing in other subjects. I also want to highlight the development of Youth, a national post-training effort offering support for local development work in classroom management, billing, writing and reading. Action is not targeted specifically at boys, but is an action that can help improve the school. Then there's one last area that was mentioned in the media over the past few weeks, and that's recruitment. Misunderstand me right, I mean in no way that it is that a female teacher can't contribute to lifting up the boys. Rather, on the contrary, there are many female teachers who contribute most to lifting up boys and helping them to crack both read code, calculation code and other codes every day in Norwegian classrooms. But I think that having a relatively even gender balance both in kindergarten and in school can also be a contribution to more boys not only feel that they are being seen, but that they also feel that they have someone who can understand what they are doing. I would also like to mention the work of reducing the drop-off, which must be systematically targeted and research-based. We know that the drop-out rate is highest in some of the professional studies, and it is highest in some of the study directions where the boys are overrepresented. We also know what the next step is because these guys don't fit into school, don't get the basic skills, or don't get through high school. It is that men and boys are overrepresented in the vast majority of negative statistics in Norway. They are overrepresented, for example. among young social assistance recipients on the Nav, and they are also overrepresented in crime statistics. So a good kindergarten policy and a good school policy for the boys is crucial to doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2369	I think that was a very good response from the Council of State. I'm very pleased that there's a focus on the problem, and that in the gender equality report too, there might be something more about research on this to figure out how to avoid these differences. What was my starting point is that primary school credits and achievements in school are actually the very basis for how to create a good life later, how to realize your opportunities. It is a problem issue that is important, and on which the Storting must focus. This should not be a debate about women in school or that kind of thing, because it is more a question of getting the tools and focus that the issue deserves and that the differences suggest that one should have. That's what I think it's important to get underlined. As the Council of State said, it's a general challenge, the schools may have to be better off using research results, and you should learn from those schools that actually succeed. The look-up in the Glam Valley, to which I referred, shows that there are enormous differences only within the region of South Hedmark. And then you might be able to take advantage of making it a regional matter. I'm not going to bring the municipal debate in here, but it's clear that gaining skills at the school leadership level too is important. I'm glad you've gone away from this because there are social factors behind it, and that today you focus much more on what the school itself controls. I think that's a much better way to go. And in terms of what the Council of State concluded with, that boys are overrepresented in most social statistics, a lot of it might come from this problem. This is an extremely important issue, especially when we read the main paper in today's evening post. Then I look forward to the debate. I am very pleased with the Council's response so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2380	Again, one of the questions to address this issue is: To what extent do you need measures specifically aimed at boys as a group, i.e. as gender, and to what extent do you need other types of measures addressing other issues, but how do boys are overrepresented? I said that in the reading and writing strategy we're going to have special attention about boys. That's because we see that the boys' results are worse than the girls'. In the case of non-response, it is a general job to get the drop-off. But nevertheless, boys are overrepresented in non-response statistics. Another general problem is the balance in school between what is often called practical and theoretical. What has really been quite a broad consensus on on the Stortinget, is that initially it is no longer that one subject is just theoretical and one subject is just practical. There is room for practical exercises and practical approaches also in what is often regarded as a subject of theory: Norwegian, mathematics and not least natural sciences, for example. But in the case of those early students who are unable to spend time in ordinary teaching, the question is, To what extent are we able to organise targeted offers, which are individually arranged with tailors' eyes for those students who are unable to follow the course in the usual way? There is also good – what to say – airholes, breathing holes, for example. Abildsø farm, which is an offer here in the area. But nevertheless, we have not managed to make any systematic policy to manage to catch up with the students who are not benefiting well enough from ordinary teaching. And then I'm not talking about everyone who's struggling with reading, writing, billing or other subjects, then I'm talking about those that fall completely outside, and unfortunately, guys are often overrepresented. I think we need to have the problem clear to us, because if this isn't natural, but you can change it through practice at school, it means that a school that is aware of the problem, which is up-to-date on what kind of solutions you have used in other schools to bring down the differences between the sexes, can actually do it at their own school as well. And that gives reason to think that this problem is not insoluble, rather on the contrary, it is possible to solve, and it is possible to solve the individual school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2389	Birk of 15 years ago said it a few years ago in the column Si-D of the Evening Post: Guys are free game, girls are described as best in everything, and one can't read a newspaper or watch TV a single day without some so-called expert finding out that girls are competing boys in everything from reading, math, golf, boxing, management IQ, EQ – and even in sex. As a boy, I have noticed, and irritated myself over, this. As a teacher, I've tried to do something about it, and as an education politician, I'm going to scratch my head a little as to what we should actually do, because it's confirmed by the statistics. We see it in high school; there's been talk here about reading in particular. Upstairs in the class stages it becomes more visible in several disciplines, and in higher education it turns out in non-response statistics. This is serious, and there's talk of a boy problem in school. But I think it's too clever to hang a label on a single sex. The focus I think we need is on the big variations in the whole. The NOVA report on gender differences in the education system confirms this. The schools that have focused on lifting all the students also automatically lift the boys. When I was working at school, I was just getting some of the boys in fifth grade to read the French books and the Lotta books. We had decided on the team that these were books that the class would read. But when we were at the school library and we had free library time, I quickly saw that fact books about planets, technology, animals and natural phenomena were eagerly picked out of the shelves. The boys read them enthusiastically and eagerly. It says a lot, because what we grown-ups had decided and defined as proper reading, didn't catch up with the most eager boys. The result was that they did not read. You don't get any worse reading about planets than reading about the life of Frans and Lotta. Since I'm in the reading room, I think we need more reading role models. I believe in measures such as: the association!les conducted last year, when in their campaign for increased literacy they used 14 football players from Tippeligen as reading role models. I think 'cluet' to succeed is about motivation and interest — several ways to learn more — because all students are different. That is why I think it is right in this debate to also mention the value of the electoral professions, which the red-green government re-entered in high school. Many of those who fall out of higher education are in vocational education — those who do not get a job or who are out of the community. There are many boys in this category, and raising the professions is also a lifting of the boys. But the most important thing I think is to start early. We have to make sure that everyone who falls off the load early in high school gets hung up quickly again – that we do not wait and see. This is why the Workers’ Party has recently submitted representative proposals to strengthen early schooling efforts. I agree with the inter-pellant and the Council of State that we need more knowledge of why women and men master education differently. Why is this so, and what measures can we take? When I learned to teach, we talked about the quiet, careful and duty-fulfilling girls as a problem. Now we're talking about the worried guys. Things change, but I think we're going to be careful about putting people in the booth too much. Gender is not the same, boys aren't the same: I'm a boy who's boyfriend with another boy, Heidi was better than all the boys in my class together in football, no one was as good at sewing the block flute case as Simon, and Vanja was the class clown – not quite typical, but it's actually everyday. We need a school that adapts to the differences, a school with anticipation, clarity and a broad learning vision. That's how we raise our boys.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2410	I want to give praise to the interpellant for addressing this issue. There are many people who have raised concerns about how boys are doing at school today. We know that many people may not be comfortable at school and feel that the school is more prepared for girls. The point of view of primary school also shows that girls do better in all subjects than boys, except in physical exercise. This is a development that is worth thinking about. A good school will help all students find their way around and develop. That is and must be our main goal. I think we all in this room agree that the school should accommodate girls as well as boys. Everyone shall meet challenges. When we see at the same time that that's not always the case, it raises the question of what can we do. As many people have been involved, it is worth noting that more research findings, among other things. from NOVA, shows that schools where there are no differences between girls’ and boys’ learning outcomes are schools characterised by a generally high learning pressure. They don't particularly facilitate boys, but they have expectations for all students, regardless of gender. I think it's worth reflecting on this, and on what it means for how we can best help the boys who need it. It is not necessarily by offering them their own offers, but by meeting a school that demands and expectations of all students, regardless of their skills. One of our famous schoolteachers tells of an incident he once witnessed when he was visiting a kindergarten to observe the children and the employees. There are probably some of you who know the story: a group of children in their four-five-year-olds was going on a trip, and he joined in. As they went, the scientist could not fail to notice that one boy was walking with his eyes almost closed and could hardly see. He had them open enough to see where he went not to fall, but otherwise he saw little. This naturally aroused the curiosity of the scientist who went to the boy and asked why he was walking with his eyes almost closed. Then the boy answered quickly and in cash: yes, it's because if I don't see what's around me, I can't draw it when we get back to the kindergarten. We always have to do that when we've been on the road, and I'd rather do something else. For me, this little anecdot illustrates the importance of school and kindergarten activities being adapted to both boys and girls. It contributes to motivation for learning. It needs boys on the same line as girls. The Ministry of Knowledge shows that they want more research into gender differences in school performance, and that is important. I am also very pleased that the government and the Minister of Knowledge now say that they aim to increase their knowledge of what factors can explain the difference between the learning and development of girls and boys. It's a knowledge we need, and it's necessary for us to get on with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2429	Firstly, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate. I think he also described the theme in a very recognizable way, so it was quite okay to join it. I will also refer to the submitted knowledge overview of NOVA, gender differences in school performance. There has therefore been no Norwegian action aimed at reducing gender differences in school performance, despite the fact that gender differences in school have been known for a very long time. The progress party, like everyone else in this room, thinks that there should be high ambitions for all students. Unfortunately, the NOVA overview shows that this has not been a particularly clear target in the past. Gender differences in literacy are worrying and far greater in Norway than in other OECD countries. There are far more boys than girls who are not functional readers after primary school. It will be difficult for them both to take vocational training and to have a long and permanent link with Norwegian working life. Research in the field cracks in many directions, but there is a lot of evidence that structure through strong and clear class management is beneficial for all students, and especially for boys. The NOVA report is drawn up, among other things. the current focus on responsibility for self-learning, unlike the earlier focus on collective learning forms, has contributed to less structured education and more unclear expectations. It may seem that girls profit more from this form of education than boys – again at the group level. Because girls are socially better than boys, a more open form of education, which gives more room for different student roles, will favor girls more. This is something that the individual teacher and the individual school can do more by changing the forms of learning that they know best. There have also been several others involved. Clear role models are important for both boys and girls. A good teacher is a good role model. A learning environment that works for both boys and girls depends on a number of factors and affects several subjects: psychology, motor skills, learning and pedagogics. Conditions need to be provided for serious research in the field, in order to establish good research-based solutions in schools. The Progress Party welcomes the fact that the government has launched several measures that are generally aimed at improving the learning outcomes of students, including the empowerment of teachers and a system of real-time communautaires to stimulate municipalities to take overall and strategic responsibility for improving skills and knowledge in real-life subjects. Norway’s progress in reading in recent years is likely to be attributed to a long-term reading effort, most recently through Reading Bets 2010–2014. Nevertheless, Norwegian students, especially boys, still face a challenge in terms of reading, even if we compare with other countries. Continuing and renewing the reading effort will be important, not least in order to increase the reading skills of boys. The Ministry of Knowledge is now working on reading for the period 2015–2019, and parts of the initiative will focus on boys and minority language students. Students with reading and writing difficulties are also a specific target group. Several measures have also been initiated, and are in the process of being launched, which aim to prevent early school leaving, including: a practical correction of the theory subjects, hopefully, will seem fortunate to many boys. It will be interesting to see whether the bulk of the population’s interest in increasing teacher density from 1st to 4th grade will reduce the need for individual decisions and specific follow-up later in school, which particularly affects boys. The government will investigate the impact of increasing teacher density, and the Progress Party looks forward to responding to the long-term contribution of increasing teacher density to smoothing learning outcomes between boys and girls. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for research-based knowledge about which actions strengthen the knowledge of both boys and girls. We are therefore positive that the Minister of Knowledge is so clear that the government aims to increase knowledge of what factors can explain differences between boys and girls’ learning and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2452	Thank you to the interpellant for making an important debate. I have even three children – a girl who goes in second grade, a girl who starts in first grade this fall, and a boy who starts in first grade in two years. If we take the statistics into account, I have reason to believe that the minstrel is going to score worse on the tests and make it worse in school than the big sisters. There's a greater chance of him ending up in need of special education than the sisters, there's a greater chance of him becoming one of those out of the tenth grade without being able to read and write properly, and there's a greater chance that he's one of those dropping out of school. But why is that? The interpellant asked questions as to whether these are natural assumptions. I don't think it's like that boys have a worse starting point, really, to learn than girls. But when there are so systematic differences in the results, we have to take it inward. Perhaps there are some differences between boys and girls after all, although I fully agree with the representative Thinning Bjørnø's warning against generalizing too much. Early effort is important, whether it's boys or girls. And we know that increasing teacher density, more time for each student, is especially important for the weakest students, for boys and for students with a minority background. That is why I am very pleased that the cooperation parties at Stortinget have agreed on a commitment to increasing teacher density in the first to fourth stages and to initiate research to explore what results and effects this might have. Winging school at Lillehammer is a school that stands out a little bit in many ways. It's a school where the boys do better than the girls on national tests. There is also a school that stands out because the proportion of male teachers is about 50 p.p., while the proportion of male teachers in primary school in general is only about 30 p.p. Thomas Nordahl comments on this to the NRK, and says that male teachers probably look at boys in a slightly different way. They might be better at recognising the boys, and not least meeting them with a little more competitive and physically oriented approaches. So Nordahl thinks having enough male teachers in school can be a key to lifting the boys. But then it's a challenge that there are fewer and fewer men in primary school, and fewer and fewer men are applying for teacher training. It's a challenge we have to address. I believe that this must be done by raising the status of the teaching profession, raising the status of teacher training. Here the government is taking several measures, and I believe that much of what is there is good. I think it might also be an idea to have a common first year for teacher training, because we know that there are especially few men who are applying to become teachers for the smallest children. Winging school also stands out as they have invested in physical activity. It is also pointed to as a success factor at this school. The council itself was concerned that maybe it's the way the girls have a little easier to find their way into a classroom situation than the boys. And maybe the boys need a little more physical form of learning than the girls do. Therefore, I believe that investing in physical activity in school is also an important measure – which will benefit both boys and girls, but perhaps especially the boys. I had the pleasure of visiting a school in the Drammen a couple–three weeks ago, together with a coworker from the Right. There we saw how they had managed to integrate the physical activity into school everyday. We visited a school class that had math classes. They had to run around in the schoolyard and find patches with their color on, and on each of those notes there was a fraction. Then they had to run back to their place and sort these fractions by size. It's a motivating and physical form of math education, and it's an exercise that maybe someone in this room could have had a good time trying on. I think increasing the proportion of male teachers is important, I think physical activity in school is important, and I think early work and increasing teacher's density are important in raising the boys in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2473	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting gender differences in school on the agenda. This may not be the first time we are discussing this in the Chamber, but it may be the first time that the inter-pellant is involved in this debate. Otherwise, I want to say that I'm not going to go into the challenges in Hedmark, but there's a lot of exciting to deal with. We've also been informed about that. Not least, there is a North-South problem that is very exciting. As someone knows, I have been a teacher at school sea and have learned that children are very different. Guys are very different, and girls are also very different, but the school is now arranged to go in the same class after the year that we were born. With larger and larger classes, the possibility of working with different methods becomes smaller and smaller. Children are very different in maturing when they start school. We know from research that the greatest difference between boys and girls is in the earliest years of school, and that it's steadying slightly as the years go by. The problem is often that the differences that have been worked out from the earliest years of school are allowed to fasten and persist until they leave school. As mentioned earlier, several boys drop out of high school, several boys go to Nav, etc. This is a development that I think we all want to get away from. Several have pointed out that the responsibility for self-learning may have contributed to increasing differences. I think that's right, and I think it's very important that learning work has clear guidance from the teacher, and that the students are guided in their work. I'm going to say that the Center Party is a little bit different from the other parties here in the hall, because we believe that it has to do more practical work in the early years of school. We are pleased that the sound wall has finally been broken, and that all parties are now engaged in professional subjects. It's going to be very interesting to see if we're getting any changes in practice, or if it's just talking. We are also pleased that we, together with the SV and the Workers' Party, got to get back the electoral professions in high school. We have also proposed that everyone should be given the opportunity to choose a job, and I hope that the positioning parties will also consider it strongly. It is difficult from available research to point out a clear explanation of why girls do better than boys. A lot of people have pointed out. The research is cracking. The centre party believes that the possibility of a more practical and active school day is important to meet boys’ needs and to awaken boys’ motivation for school work. I am surprised that the interpellant has not been concerned that we need to think about more than Norwegian, math and English in school. It is of course important to have basic skills – there is no disagreement – but I would say, up to a certain level. As the Council of State said, there is something about catching the inner motivation, and we as politicians, and everyone who is a teacher and a teacher, must be concerned about catching everyone's inner motivation. Then we have to ask ourselves: what is the acceptable level of knowledge and what one wants to learn in Norwegian, math and English – for a gardener, for a hairdresser, a carpenter or a bricklayer? I am very pleased that the Council of State, at least, mentioned it with practical methods in the basic subjects. We all have experiences with young children, I think, and you know just as well as me how different they are. I'm sure what activities you do with children, grandchildren or aunt children, or what they are, depends on what the children are interested in and enjoy. Souls without having gone to school, children learn to talk, learn to go, jump, run and other skills. They learn by doing, and they are motivated by doing. That father reads on the bed, it would have been fun to research what would have to say for the development of the individual son or daughter. I think it has a meaning. I don't mean, of course, that we're going to have an activity school without theory, but I think we need a more theoretical school, to say it like that. A more active school is good for all children, both boys and girls, as Tyvand pointed out. We have to give space, financial opportunities and learning capacity enough to make school life good for everyone. We're not doing that to a large enough extent today. We need smaller groups and more practical activities, and then we need teachers who can run theory and practice hand in hand. I hope – just as a last wish that I send with the interpellant – that the Right Party does not impose mandatory second foreign language on the child. I also hope that the Young Right will not get a pass to remove the electives from the school, which they have called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2499	The Council of State says that it is problematic that schools do not use the knowledge that exists about the causes of the differences when they are to work to balance gender inequalities in schools. The problem is that there is little consensus about these causes, and research is breaking in all directions. I find it strange that the Council of State focuses so much on the report on learning pressure and the effect it has had on balancing differences, and does not say more about the discord and lack of consistency in research within this field. So there's little consensus about the reasons, and so it's easy to imagine why schools and school owners are struggling to pick the right tools. The 2014 NOVA report did not find any studies of measures to counter gender differences in school performance, and it states that ‘there is also a lack of systematic and evaluable good practice in Norwegian schools’. The importance of the various forms of learning and the emphasis on practical subjects as valuable knowledge in a society has been highlighted here. Other elements that we should look at are, for example:How did we set up our school days? And to what extent do you have room to meet the needs of the different children — this by sitting in peace for a long time at a time, and this by getting a school meal to make sure that the students have the energy they need to be able to concentrate for a whole day? SV believes these are important factors for both boys and girls in their efforts to balance the differences. So we need a broader understanding and understanding of the causes and effects of measures based on trials. Therefore, it is important to explore this more closely, and the aim of this research must be to give school owners and school leaders easier access to tools and working methods in order to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2511	I would like to thank you for what I see as a good debate. I perceive that there is a lot of attention and focus on the issue. Then I'm basically satisfied, because this started with the meeting between the Hedemark bench and the County State, and what I really missed there was simply the curiosity about why it's like that. That gave us a debate around that made you at least have a little discussion about it. I have probably my opinions on what this could be about, but it's been a long time since I've been involved in school policy, so I really just wanted to focus on a problem issue. I think I have received many good answers during the debate. I want to thank others for their good input. I think Tveiten Benestad had a good story that illustrates a lot of the challenge, and this with physical activity, which Tyvand had in mind, of course the Right National Meeting also had a brief statement on. I am absolutely convinced that there are many such factors that can play a role and that – as Tingelstad Wøien was in it – one can find the inner motivation of the individual. That's when you do a good job for each student – when you can figure out what it is that makes each individual perform. It's simply said, and then it's terribly hard to get into practice. I have great respect for that, but the important thing is that it focuses on the challenge. And again, I'm very pleased that the Council of States obviously takes this seriously. The good thing about what I think has come out – and in what I have dug myself – is that the schools that actually perform well for all students, also in many ways, have the smallest differences. And then there must be a lot of good you can pursue here, also to get it fixed. I agree with Tingelstad Wøien that the Hedmark school can certainly be a good illustration of many challenges, because there are great differences in the county. I didn't expect you to take that debate here today, but that's for example. Remarkably, the southern state is significantly lower than the northern state in terms of school performance. But we'll have to do that another time. Now it was about gender differences in school, and I think in particular that once you get on national tests – that's why I just mentioned reading and mathematics, because that's where you have the results – with objective judgment, the differences are almost absent. It says something about that when there's quite a lot of school itself can do with this, and at least be aware of this with how to treat boys and girls. So I thank you for a good debate and hope you keep the focus on the issue, because it's important for how each one can realize himself in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2526	I didn't mean in any way to claim – and I guess I can't be understood that way either – that there is no need for any more research. It would be strange for a minister of knowledge to think, because in all areas more research is almost always needed. My point is that we don't just have a very, very black hole and don't know anything about this. It is quite right that here, too, as in most areas, it is possible to find research results that do not clearly conclude or that crack in different directions. My point is that, among other things, a study that Thomas Nordahl has done might seem that schools that have less gender differences than others, also have some particular learning strategies and some particular ways they do things. That means that we can't just do more research; then there's reason to think that this is something we should do more of as well. I want to mention two things in the end. One is that this is a problem we see in, like, all developing countries, and it's come in the last decades. But there's something new in this too, because it means that when you see girls coming in and dominating more and more in school, in higher education – hopefully also in management positions – it's a sign of a gender equality that you've been given in the last decades. At the same time, there is another problem, as is seen in several countries, and it is that in the vast majority of negative statistics in a society, boys and men are overrepresented. It is not certain that it has something to do with exactly sex as such, but it can, for example, have something to do with the fact that very many boys and men, including historically, have been associated with some of the professions that are under the most pressure, for example. crafts and traditional industrial professions. But regardless of that, we know that a good foundation from school and kindergarten is absolutely crucial. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bjørnø, on this with a boost for the professions. Although it is not the case – and the representative certainly agrees – that the professional subjects as such are boys, it is nevertheless true that there are several boys on some of the lines that have the greatest disqualification. Therefore, a professional lift will also address this issue. So I'll finally say a thousand thanks to Gunnar Gundersen for a good and exciting interpellation and for many good and interesting posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2541	Case No. So 11 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2555	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each political group and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2564	The extent of black work and associated labour-life crime is increasing and challenges important values in the welfare community. In addition, very different competitive conditions exist between companies that operate seriously and those that operate unprofessionally in different industries. The tax rate estimates annual tax exemptions to approximately 150 billion. kr. It indicates very clearly that concentrated and proper efforts towards the black economy can bring significant benefits to the community by extending the tax base. Equally important is the fact that proper action will combat crime and increase the quality and safety of ordinary consumers. The assumption is that we concentrate and target efforts with coordination and interaction between the relevant agencies, and do not believe that efforts are optimal in fragmented and scattered control, depending on local resources. For that, this fight is too important. Cooperation and co-location between the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the police and the tax administration are now formalised, and projects are being carried out in Bergen, Oslo and Stavanger with a focus on increasing the fight against work-life crime. It is a pilot project, which is also likely to be extended to other cities where this problem is present. It's a cross-political commitment to finding the right and best means of dealing with black work. Many action plans and proposals have been launched, and now we need to focus on action and results. We know that the black economy is linked to organized crime and not a local phenomenon by someone switching services or doing a little bit extra outside of normal working hours. It is therefore important to coordinate and coordinate resources between departments and to use resources correctly. Access to and collection of information is essential because there are often many tracks or events that provide in sum a correct overview and basis for action. Measures against black work must therefore be broadly anchored and not diluted by barriers between different levels and levels covering the whole. The majority of the Committee points to the fact that thorough and regular monitoring of employers is an important part of the fight against the black economy, and it is necessary to facilitate good control environments that can work systematically and professionally together with the other control activities of the tax administration. The government has launched its strategy against the crime of working life with many important measures to control the black economy. The strategy outlines instruments and allocates responsibility for follow-up. As mentioned above, the availability of information and specific control measures are important but not at the expense of the serious operators in the market. Measures to deal with the hamsters must not make it more difficult for the serious. While opening up the flow of information, we need to ensure legal certainty for individuals and businesses. This balance and demarcation is challenging because we want to fight black players and at the same time make it more attractive to be a serious actor and supplier. Then we have to look at the totality of the framework conditions for business and put in place as far as possible safe measures against serious crime. The Committee's recommendation contains proposals to further strengthen the good work being done and is unanimous up to Roman number VI, on guarantee remuneration for permanent staff of manning companies. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is fundamentally unfortunate to regulate the details of salary, as this is the judgment of the parties through collective bargaining agreements. There may be good reasons to look more closely at developments in the use of the form of a contract of permanent employment without a guarantee, but in that case this must be done in close cooperation with the social partners. We will therefore vote against this proposal for a decision in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2581	The fight against black work on all fronts is important for the legitimate and regular Norwegian industry, perhaps not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, which compete precisely in the area of more irregular work. This, of course, is essential for the conditions of competition — and for our future tax revenues — and is therefore an important issue for the welfare society in the long term. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee is broadly united in strengthening the instruments. I do not see that this is a proposal that separates the committee, but I understand that both the committee and the government consider this to be a very important matter. The hues, including in the comments, are moving more towards the pace and strength of the use of instruments and have much less to do with strengthening the fight against undeclared work. The measures we are taking now and later must make it easier to be serious. The combination of making it more difficult to operate illegally can be a balancing process that requires action to be thought through and clarified with business and often with the social partners. Similarly, legal certainty is an important element in the design of measures: among other things, this is referred to in the supplementary tax option, which is often applied to the equation. However, it can often be very long before there are judicial judges, and in the meantime there are a lot of examples – including from the media – that it all coincides, because this is complicated jus, which also does not always have the right entry point. So we have to be sure that the legal certainty of taxpayers is not affected by the measures we are taking. Legal certainty can never be generalised; it will always be individually affected and must be adapted accordingly. Similarly, with tax certificates, which of course would be brilliant if you could make them work in real time. But we have a tax system that works in retrospect, and not in real time, and I think we're going to continue to have, and that will make any investigation into getting the tax certificates valid in the present time very demanding. It is a good purpose, but we must also take care here of the boundaries of privacy and legal certainty, and not least it is essential that it is not burdensome for the entirely legitimate part of Norwegian business, which follows the legislation. The important first line in the fight against undeclared work is a professional tax rate, which has good professional environments that can work together across the networks. There's work going on transferring this business to the state, and there's a lot of input and views, but I think that black work – and the fight against it – may be one of the most important reasons why we have to do something about this particular matter. It's about getting top professional environments, because they're fighting professional forces on the side that's not law-abiding. Finally, I believe that in the long term, the most important response to undeclared work will be to raise consumer awareness of not using undeclared labour – not only because it is illegal, but also because it weakens tax revenues and weakens the welfare society in the long term. I see that it's not just something you can just put an ad in the newspaper about, and flips, you have convinced consumers. This is a long-term work – and we have such work, how many partners in the work and business are united to have campaigns and to try to convince people that this is the right way to do it, and that in this way they also contribute to the welfare community. I think you have to keep up the fight, because this is what will eventually produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2603	There are many possible approaches to a debate on black economy and black work, and I strongly agree with the previous speakers on the part of this they raised. I also take the opportunity to thank the case rapporteur for his constructive work in bringing together the Committee on this initiative from the Christian People's Party – he has done a great deal of good. Thank you for that and thank you for the goodwill of all the parties. If we take the economic angle, we know that the black economy represents a loss of taxes and taxes of several tens of billion dollars every year. There's a lot of a tax debate and questions about the level of taxes we could eliminate if we had gotten the maybe 50-60-70 billion that we're talking about here, so it's of great social importance. At the same time, too many people have a personal question, because in the wake of black work and black economy, we also see a lot of individual ships. Trafficking in human beings is often very closely related to the black economy, and we have also seen examples of that. We can take the Lime case, as an example, which shows how the black economy is also a driver in the exchange of people. And that's at last maybe the most serious. To the extent that undeclared work grows to an extent, it also threatens serious work. The black economy remains a serious social problem, and yes – tax revenue is reduced and thus the common basis for well-being. It weakens the competitive situation of the serious companies, and respect for law and rules and the rights of employees are undermined by extensive black work and the black economy. I am pleased with the points of agreement that the Committee shares. The possibility of obtaining relevant information and securing evidence, including: through seizures. This concerns the possibility of the tax rate for sharing information, e.g.: the imposition of increased additional taxes and non-delivery of tax returns with other public bodies. The representative Fleet was on one side of the black work that went on an organisation of an establishment. The problem, however, is that we see the flow of information between state agencies today. is so weak that for various reasons – some call it privacy and others call it unwilling to work actively on it – do not get a pass. Thus, one department knows something that the other should actually know, without – in my opinion, at least – affecting relevant privacy considerations. So many have mentioned the issue of tax certificates. At least I think it is important that a tax certificate for others should not be made out for anything other than what it is. Because today's problem is that you produce a tax certificate, and then the employer, or those who order goods and services, thinks it's something more than what it is. When the defects are as visible as they are, we haven't gotten that far. So finally, we got a very clear example of a fake ID in the morning news today – using fake IDs, getting so-called identification cards, in the workplace, which seems to make you there completely legal, but actually you're there under false cover. Real time in the case of ID cards: Here the state has a big task to do, and I am excited about how it will be followed up. In sum, the government has made its recommendations, which enabled us to draw the proposals on apprentices and on the number of suppliers in the chain. This – along with what we are adopting today – at least I am a good step forward, and I am pleased that we can stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2620	As the Fleet, the Seven and the Advocate-General said, we agree on a great deal here. It's joyous, and it's very important. I would like first of all to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party at Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hämdal and Kjell Ingolf. It is a good initiative and a contribution that is important in the fight against undeclared work. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has put himself in the harness to reach this consensus. So there's some nuances out there and going here. Among other things, we have a proposal together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party where we say the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that Oslo's new requirements in the standard public procurement contracts, adopted on 10 June 2014, be applied to all public procurement contracts of a certain size.’ I am therefore addressing this proposal. So I would like to highlight one thing in particular: the seven were within this with the rights of the workers, as well as the loss of income for the big society, etc. We in Norway are very dependent on, if we are to build the country further, in the countryside and in the city, that we have good skilled workers. Not least to recruit young people for the construction industry and all other industries where professionals are needed, the fight against undeclared work and having a decent working life is so incredibly important – in order to succeed in motivating and succeeding in having jobs that are worthy of Norway. In view of that, this is a good day, a fine end to today's meeting, with the Financial Committee, which is able to agree on a great deal when consensus is within reach. It is a quality of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2636	The representative Tore Hagebakken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2639	The centre party is concerned that black work and tax crime must be combated. The development of labour crime, social dumping and the black economy are one of the greatest threats to our welfare society. In our alternative budget for 2015, the Central Party promoted a number of proposals to help fight black economy, tax evasion and black work. Our proposals went beyond what the bulk of the population would join. When examining the proposals we are now considering, it appears that there is broad agreement in the Financial Committee on several good proposals. However, there is disagreement between the parties on some very key issues to which it is natural to draw attention in the debate. The most striking discrepancy in the Committee is the view of guaranteed wages in permanent manning companies. It is gratifying for me to see that a majority of the committee, consisting of representatives from the Central Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, have come together in a note describing this problem. The five parties to this majority have agreed on a proposal which is the committee's recommendation for Decision VI. A major problem in tax evasion in business is the outreach sector in large cities. According to the article of the Evening Item ‘Remove the cash from the outings’, tax experts believe that one-fifth of the turnover in the outings industry in Oslo is black. From the same article is quoted: ‘NHO Reiseliv meant in the report ‘Black economy in the outdoor sector’ that approx. SEK 1.3 billion a year is taxed in Oslo and Akershus. But everyone knows that the number is much higher. A scarce iceberg is discovered, much because of the large cash turnover." Both the NHO and the Joint Alliance will remove cash from the outskirts. The national meeting of the Workers' Party recently went in to give companies in the tourism industry the right to opt out of cash payments. I'll give the Workers' Party credit for that, but I'll ask if we won't dare to go another step further, if we're going to be able to deal with this. Should we consider banning the use of cash in the outdoor industry in those parts of the country where this is a major problem? NHO says in the Evening Post report: ‘This is not only illegal but also very distortive. The black economy steals employees' rights, welfare services from those who need it and makes competition difficult for serious enterprises.» The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party are also united in stating that the confidentiality of the tax liability must be subordinated to the need to prevent illegal activities. In cases where undertakings compete for public tenders, it should not be possible for undertakings with black activities to win the tender. The Government Parties and the Left consider that the obligation of professional secrecy must be maintained for reasons of legal certainty. It is of great interest to note that these three parties also justify their opposition to proposal 3 of the draft representative by referring to the provisions of the EEA Agreement: «These members refer to proposal 3 in Document 8:7 S to ensure that the system of tax certificates is improved, so that black operations will be as much as possible compatible with a purely fiscal certificate. [[2014-2015]] These members will point to the fact that, unfortunately, the tax certificates are difficult to use for this purpose, because the tax certificates cannot provide information that is not accessible to public acquisition processes under EEA law. EEA legislation limits the refusal of a supplier on the basis of suspected criminal offences where there is no enforceable judgment.’;» In this way, these representatives take into account any reaction from ESA, taking into account the very important work to combat crime in which persons of foreign origin are highly represented. The VG article ‘Now criminal gang members AS/Krim’ reads: ‘According to Kripos, police districts of Oslo and Romerike report on the main challenges of criminal networks. They are also distinguished by committing the most serious crime. – In several of these networks, criminals with Pakistani, Albanian, Somali, Syrian and Vietnamese backgrounds are particularly visible.’ When the crime scene in our country changes, we also need to give politicians new and better tools to authorities working to detect and punish economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2679	Social dumping, black work and economic crime really threaten our society, the well-being that is built up, and if you can't stop this, it's the basements that win, and the honest workers and the honest businesses that follow the law are going to lose out in competition. It has to be stopped, and there needs to be much stronger measures than those we have in place today, but I am very pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the measures proposed by the Financial Committee today. There are some disagreements, which have been pointed out, and this applies, among other things. how to organise different types of business structures today – not only to avoid taxes, but also to reduce costs in a way that affects employees. In this way, you tear away the basis for getting a living from a job. When you tear away the foundation for it, e.g. if you are not paid between jobs if you are in a rental company, you need to find something else to support yourself. Ensuring that workers have a wage is a means of living when they have a regular job and a working relationship is an important response to black work and social dumping. You've also been in the private market, and that we all have a responsibility, seafaringly. I guess it's sometimes possible to say it like this: if it's too cheap, there's something wrong. This applies when you enter into a contract as a public sector or as a company, but it also applies when you do it as a private individual. There are some offers that are too good to be legal, and then you have to take responsibility for it. This goes from international crime, camouflaged in tax havens, down to the smallest transactions. Perhaps one of the most important things we can do, and I regret that the government has reversed, is to give the trade union movement more tools. The trade union movement is one of the most important janitors we can have. That is why I am, among other things, Regret that the government has withdrawn this with the possibility of the trade union movement going in and suing for illegal rent, because it is all these small elements that together make it possible for working life to function legally, that we actually have elements that can be taken care of. A control activity to replace the job done by a well-organised trade union movement in these areas at the workplace is almost impossible to imagine. So to the tax rate: I'm very happy that you now see how the tax rate can work much more actively with this, but we disagree, from SV's side, with the government that it's a good thing to centralize the tax rate, as the government wants. This is justified by one’s desire, among other things: improved control of employers. Everyone wants that – it has to be in place. But removing a tax collection that works well today, and that works better than the government collection, we think is a bad proposal. Rather, it is necessary to develop what works well, in areas where there is a lack — either through cooperation or through the fact that parts of it, which do not include the large volume, are done in their own units. It is important, because the tax rate is present locally, works well and can also assist in matters of disagreement. Solving matters helps to ensure that that part of the administration has broad confidence, and it is important that it has when it is also to help clean up cases of illegality. There's a very large volume on this. There have been several figures from other representatives here, but if we take the entire volume of this with financial crime in addition, it's about several hundred million dollars. If we get rid of half of this, we have money for well-being, for tax havens to ordinary people and for saving the climate, so this is an incredibly important thing, for both our finances and the structures that keep our society up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2694	Combating undeclared work is a priority task for this government, and the efforts of the authorities in this area can obviously also be improved. Authorities use several instruments in the fight against undeclared work. It's e.g. in the case of access to control information. Tax authorities may not collect information by force, e.g.: in the case of seizures. This is primarily a task for the police. However, this does not preclude the possibility of establishing a separate system of proof of the tax liability. Although the tax rate already has the possibility to share information with many public agencies, I am open to consider whether it should happen in even more cases. The tax certificate scheme is limited to being a tax balance certificate. The tax certificate shows whether taxpayers have paid their tax claims. There are several challenges related to the extension of the scheme, but it is clearly possible to address that issue too. The Government investigates the possibility of operators other than control and supervisory authorities making real-time calls in public registers. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs aims to ensure that any proposal for a change of rules can be sent to the summer consultation. However, there is already a good and important work to be done with awareness-raising campaigns under the direction of cooperation against the black economy, such as the United States and Japan. is targeted at secondary schools. That work will continue. It can also be assessed whether even more floors should be involved in that work. The government is committed to having a serious and orderly working life, where permanent employment is the general rule, and where the protection provisions of the Working Environment Act ensure good and decent working conditions. The Working Environment Act applies to the manning industry as to other industries. All appointments shall be made within the framework of the two types of employment of the law — either permanent or temporary. There is a long tradition in Norway that it is the courts that have to decide whether the individual contract of employment is within the law, thus drawing up the specific boundaries of the law. It is therefore up to the individual employee to follow any breach of the rules on employment and dismissal, for example: through the courts. Organisations may support the individual, both professionally and financially, in such matters. It is fundamentally unfortunate to regulate the details of wages, as it is the domain of the parties through collective agreements. However, the government will closely follow developments and practices with rentals, especially when compared to the use of other forms of employment. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has therefore also concluded a multiannual research agreement with Fafo. In addition, in the context of the government’s strategy against crime at work, the compliance with and enforcement of the non-discrimination rules in the case of rents and the possible need for new measures shall be investigated. I have noticed that the majority of the financial committee indicates that a solid employer control system that can work with the other control environments of the tax haven is an important measure in the fight against the black economy. I fully agree with that. An important measure in this context is to establish a better control of employers by moving them from municipalities to the tax system. There is a question on which the government will come back to the United Kingdom in connection with the presentation of the revised national budget, where we are given the opportunity to present in full the consultation that has been carried out, which shows the broad support that this proposal has, in a rich array of professional environments, which believes that this action will be extremely important in the fight against undeclared work. But we will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very good that this question is addressed at regular intervals in Stortinget. Combating the scale of undeclared work and economic crime is an incredibly important work. It's a work we need to focus on within our own national legislation and in terms of actions we can do here at home, but it's definitely also important that we work on this in different international forums, through international tax agreements, because this is unfortunately not just a national phenomenon. It is also a major and comprehensive problem internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2716	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2719	The inter-pellant shall be recognised for having addressed a very important topic. Organized crime and undeclared work are inextricably linked. Money is often made on drug sales, which is money laundering and ploughing into the legal economy. You get ridiculously low offers, the temptation gets big, and we're walking. We see that this is taking place to a greater and greater extent. But this is nothing new – 35 years ago a book called «Black Work, a Sector in Growth» came. What we see is that this sector is expanding alarmingly fast and is linked to mobile profit crime, among other things. The control mechanisms are too weak. Two of the control mechanisms are linked to tax certificates and criminal taxes. The tax certificate shows a status situation at a given time that tells you if you have outstanding balances related to unpaid tax. The evening post has revealed in several of its reports that a company may be under investigation for hellery, money laundering and VAT evasion and yet obtain a clear tax return. This is something the Ministry of Finance absolutely must look at. To use the tax certificate as a control mechanism, the tax certificate must also be trusted. Then at a criminal tax. Penalty tax is a penalty supplement that is used when you want to deal with the matter quickly and effectively, but there is no doubt that it is a criminal reaction. This criminal reaction is subject to professional secrecy. In this context, it is appropriate to consider whether the taushets provisions in the tax code are so strict that this information does not come to the knowledge of those who should actually know it, in order to use it as a qualification criterion – whether you are legal or illegal when you have to be a provider. The government has done a lot of good on the occasion of the case. In the state budget, 28 million were allocated. kr for increased cooperation between the police and the control settings – an additional 28 million. kr. This type of crime is very closely related to other types of crime, trafficking in human beings, for example. This is why the government has set up a joint analysis and intelligence centre to monitor the movements of these criminals and to exchange information and make better use of the resources of the police and the control budgets than could have been done at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2746	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2753	On 5 December 2013, Stortinget adopted a new occupational pension law. That's what Stortinget did unanimously. In that law, there was one element missing, namely the disadvantage, and the disadvantage is what is proposed in the present case in a new chapter, Chapter 8. It deals with new rules on disability pensions in private occupational pension schemes. On 1 January 2015, i.e. at the turn of the year, the new rules for disability benefit came into force, and it is now natural and necessary to make changes specifying the framework for the disability coverage of private so-called tax-advanced occupational pension schemes, so that they are adapted to the new disability benefits of the People's Security Act. Chapter 8, which is proposed here, replaces previous rules laid down in the Occupational Pensions Act. In March 2014, the Stortinget adopted new rules on disability pensions in statutory public pension schemes. These changes came into force at the latest year-end. The proposal proposed in this legislative text has provisions similar to those already adopted for the public sector. It is important that these schemes in the public and private sectors are as similar as possible. Then it is that in the Civil Pensions Act, including what is proposed here, private sector schemes are so-called voluntary schemes – that is, it is up to the individual enterprise, the individual enterprise, to decide for itself whether to introduce these legal rules. It is also up to the individual enterprise or enterprise to decide whether to introduce parts of this, i.e. make use of the provisions of the law, in whole or in part. There is reason to stress that the Committee has cooperated well in this matter, and I thank you for that. This cooperation includes, inter alia: led to a proposed modification of the point of the child supplement in relation to that contained in the proposition. To put it simply, the proposal is now that the child supplement is paid until the child is 18 years old, compared to the 21st year of the proposal, as the starting point was. In return, the rate has now been proposed higher than that in the proposal. This is the subject of a unanimous vote by the Committee. This means that the scheme will be equal to that applicable to the public sector. The child supplement in the public sector will be further explored. If this leads to changes, the framework for private sector child supplements may need to be reviewed after the government has come back with its assessment of the public sector child supplement. Another aspect that has arisen in the hearing in the case is the actual reporting responsibility of this scheme. Pension providers have stated that, among other things: request access to income information for the so-called ‘a’ scheme in order to calculate the disability pension. The Ministry should consider the practical aspect of reporting responsibilities, which may be perceived as very burdensome for each individual and, where appropriate, make guidelines and proposals to make the systems as flexible as possible. The case shows that there is a special remark from the Workers' Party and SV. I guess it'll be explained to this. However, it is not proposed to amend the legislative proposal itself, and its presentation is therefore unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2772	The case rapporteur, Sigurd Hille, has given a good review of what this matter is about. This is also a matter where the willingness to cooperate has been brought to the attention of everyone in our committee. However, the working party, together with SV, is critical of the government's proposal for maximum framework and child supplementation, and it is therefore good that we in the committee, as the rapporteur explained, have been able to agree that the rate of child supplementation in the Occupational Pensions Act is equivalent to the supplement in the public occupational pension schemes. We are also pleased that it will be possible to continue free police until coverage beyond popular security becomes the standard in all businesses. However, we are critical that the Department proposes a more complex maximum framework than the majority of the Banking Law Commission wants. We don't think it's unreasonable that narrowing down on low incomes is the greatest thing. Our starting point is that no one chooses to be destitute of free will. We are engaged in the social profile and in securing a device so that no disproportionately large part of the company's pension is due to income above 6 G. But it is quite right, as the rapporteur said, that we are not promoting any changes. This amendment of the law thus has the following prognosis: It seems that it will be unanimously adopted – and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2783	This is a matter that I think in many ways is a little strange that does not create more attention than it does, because it affects many. Nevertheless, there is little interest, which today is the great difference between occupational pensions in the various parts of the world of work, and which helps to create division in the labour market, with barriers that prevent people from going from public to private sector and vice versa. These barriers are particularly harmful now that the Norwegian economy is in a phase where there is a great need for conversion. The Progress Party and the Government therefore want to reduce the differences between pension systems in the private and public sectors and thus remove the barriers between the sectors. I believe that in the long term, people should be able to switch jobs between the public and private sectors without having to think about how this affects pensions and other rights. That is why I am pleased that the amendment to the Occupational Pensions Act, which we are debating today, implies that it will be possible to provide private sector disability coverage in line with the recently adopted public sector disability regime. I am also pleased that Stortinget now sets the child allowance rate in the Occupational Pensions Act corresponding to the supplement in the public occupational pension schemes, valid for 18 years. However, at the same time, let me remind you that it is voluntary that a private sector enterprise will link the disability pension to its occupational pension scheme and the extent to which they will benefit from the framework of the legislative proposal. This means that there will still be differences between the private and public sectors, but this is a step in the right direction in terms of harmonising public and private pensions. Some people want to go beyond the government's proposals for occupational retirement provision. These want a compulsory scheme for the holdings. This may initially be a sensible approach, but I am of the opinion that any mandatory scheme can quickly become expensive for small and medium-sized enterprises, with the consequences it may have. Finally, let me thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done and great cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2798	The design of disability pension rules in private occupational pension schemes must balance the need to ensure that persons who are disabled are reasonably insured and compensated for loss of income, in return for being employed if they are able to do so. These are the same reasons on which the reformed disability in popular security is based. I am pleased that the Committee has largely adhered to the proposed legal rules on the new framework for disability pensions in private tax-advanced occupational pension schemes, which will adapt disability pension schemes in the private sector to the new disability benefits in the public sector that came into force at the turn of the year. The proposal concerns disability pensions linked to tax-favored occupational pension schemes under the Occupational Pensions Act, the Pensions Act and the Occupational Pensions Act, and the proposal is based – as the Stortinget well knows – on the Banking Law Commission’s investigation, NOU 2013:12 and on its consultation. I am concerned that the private and public occupational pension schemes should be as similar as possible where possible, and I have noticed that an overall committee also expresses this. Therefore, the proposal provides that the maximum disability pension framework of the scheme is equivalent to that recently adopted in the public occupational pension schemes, including that wages up to 12 G may be taken into account. I have also noticed that the Committee proposes a different upper framework and lower age limit for the child supplement, so that the external frameworks correspond to the level and age limit of the public occupational pension schemes. An important consideration behind the proposal is that legislation should provide incentives to work where possible, and therefore rules have been proposed on proportionate deductions from labour income exceeding 0,4 G and on the coordination of several disadvantages in order to avoid excessive overall benefits. It has been suggested that the Ministry may lay down detailed transitional rules and, where appropriate, the deadline for the winding-up of existing disability pension schemes in regulations, and we will normally consider the need for such detailed rules in connection with the entry into force of new legislation. In conclusion, let me just make a few comments to the representative, Mr Hagebakken, who made the impression that the government has made proposals in violation of the recommendations of the Banking Commission. So that's not right. The maximum frameworks are designed to correspond to those adopted in the public sector and it is difficult to see that the frameworks should be higher in the private sector than in the public sector. The Banking Law Commission concluded its investigation and proposed a maximum framework before the adoption of the rules on the public sector, but the Banking Law Commission has demonstrated in its investigation that it is appropriate to focus on what will apply in the public sector. With that, I am pleased with the broad consensus expressed in Stortinget in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2815	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 14-17 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The cases are the second case of legal proceedings and relate to legislative decisions 58–61 for 2014–2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2866	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 14-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2872	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2880	During the debate, Mr Lundtigen has tabled a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency, pursuant to the Basic Law § 75 h, to allow new state councils to be convened in writing by the President of the Grand Duchy, after a new provision of the Grand Duchy’s Rules of Procedure, in order to explain any unlucky ties of interest relating to the former profession.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e2910	During the debate, Martin Kolberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the members of the Presidency, Marit Nybakk and Svein Roald Hansen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A. Adoption of the Act on the Registration of the Roles and Economic Interests of Government Members I Law 30 November 2012 No. 70 on the registration of the duties and financial interests of members of the Government are amended as follows: New Section 1 (a) shall be replaced by the following: § 1 (a) The King of the Council of State may instruct the members of the Government and the Secretaries of the State to register his former contracting entities where he has worked to promote political or commercial interests. [[1]] [[2]] An obligation to provide information in accordance with this provision is limited to the grantors of members of the Government and the State Secretaries have had it for the last two years before accession. [[3]] An obligation to provide information in accordance with the provision here gives rise to the obligation of professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3250	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3258	During the debate, Ingrid Heggø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message presenting in full the opportunities and challenges facing Norwegian travel life at national and international level and providing the basis for an active travel policy.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3316	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3363	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 2, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop concrete targets for climate finance in poor countries by 2030, which clearly distinguishes the ambitions for domestic migration to the low-carbon society and climate finance in poor countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3387	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to draw up a case for Norwegian climate finance funding in poor countries by 2030. This matter should cover all areas where Norway is already contributing significantly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3418	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legal basis to allow the State to impose fines on municipalities that break the hourly air quality limits.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a bill for additional measures, as well as fines, to municipalities that breach the air quality limits as an annual average.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3631	In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3640	During the debate, Mr Hagebakken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that Oslo's new requirements in the standard public procurement contracts, adopted on 10 June 2014, be applied to all public procurement contracts of a certain size.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3687	It's going to add up to VI. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3702	It will then vote on the Committee's position on I-V.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e3993	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e4004	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e4011	Case No. 14–17 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 58–61. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-28.ana.ud1595e4385	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
