ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e150	The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, has again taken up its seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: for the province of Finnmark: Ronny Berg for the Nordland counties: Willfred Nordlund for the counties of Troms: Christin Kristoffersen The requested alternate of the State of East-Agder, Lene Langemyr, shall be granted an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen 24–26. March due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Aust-Agder County, Odd Gunnar Tveit, are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e190	Odd Gunnar Tveit is present and will take the seat. There are very many permit requests: From the Røjres Storingsgruppe on the leave of the representative Margunn Ebbesen on 25 and 26 March to take part in a trip with the Government Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation to Finnmark. From the Workers' Group on the leave of representatives Jorod Asphjell, Ruth Grung, Per Rune Henriksen, Irene Johansen, Sonja Mandt, Marit Nybakk and Knut Storberget, and from representatives Rigmor Andersen Eide, Kristian Norheim and Sivert Bjørnstad, on the 25th and 26th of March – all to participate in the Nordic Council's ceremony in Copenhagen. From the representatives Bjørn Lødemel and Anette Trettebergstuen on leave of 26 and 27 March both to take part in the 132nd session of the Interparliamentary Union in Hanoi. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It is deemed to have been adopted, From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Lasse Juliusen, from the first and second alternates of the Telemark County, Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen and Thorleif Fluer Vikre, and from the first alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Audun Otterstad, there are applications for waivers to meet in the Stortinget on 25 and 26 March under the representatives Knut Storberget, Kristian Norheim and Jorodd Asphjell, respectively, for welfare reasons. From other alternate for Oslo, Prableen Kaur, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Thursday 26 March under the authority of the representative of Marit Nybakks, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: for the county of Hedmark: Thor Lillehovde 25–26. March 26 and Bente Elin Lilleakseth 26 March for the province of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen 25–26. March and Marianne S. Bjorøy 25–26. March for More and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten 25–26. March of the county of Nordland: Jonny Finstad 25–26. March for Oslo: Prableen Kaur 25 March and Vegard Gröslie Wennesland 26 March for Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 26 March for Telemark counties: Roy Bjurholt 25–26. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== ==References====External links== March of Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen 25–26. March
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e338	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Ola Elvestuen will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e343	I am delighted to present representative proposals on behalf of myself and representatives of Pål Farstad, Terje Breivik and Abid Q. Raja on more comprehensive and long-term management of ants in Norway. And I am delighted to present my own representative proposals and the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, on the involvement of the Stortinge in matters of large mining plans and marine landfills.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e350	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e353	I am pleased to make a proposal by the representatives of the big business of Anniken Huitfeldt, Stine Renate Håheim, Helga Pedersen, Eirik Sivertsen and myself that Norway needs to contribute more to remedy the refugee situation in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e358	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 – that was an understatement! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 22, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The unit should be examined before midnight in the interests of the Committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e487	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, SV 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines, with replies from the main speakers of each party group and member of the government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e498	It is high time that the Working Environment Act finally came into force in the United Kingdom, not only because the process has been in existence for a year now since the debate began, but since it is soon ten years since the current Labour Environment Act was passed. Today's law is almost ten years away, and I am therefore pleased that I, as the case rapporteur and committee leader today, am able to present a position with broad support in Stortinget. Both the communication and the compromise in Stortinget ensure the tripartite cooperation with which Norway has been blessed. Of course, we have tried, since the government chose to bring forward two issues — the temporary employment and the obligation of activity in relation to the social services law — to deal with this in parallel in the committee. And we've made that clear. I would first like to commend the Committee for a very good cooperation. Not least, I would like to thank our partners in the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one of us to realize our dreams and ambitions and that it will pay off to work. Working and having a job to go to has changed significantly in recent years. That's why the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that the changes that are going to continue are going to have to be met by a work environment law that looks something different than today. The Labour Environment Act covers a very wide range of employers and employees. The law shall apply to small individual enterprises and to heavy limited liability companies and, in particular, to enterprises with thousands of employees; industrial groups. The law applies in public, private, local, national and international establishments in Norway. This poses a challenge for the Storting, because the same law applies and sets the same rules for all businesses, regardless of size, ownership, national and international competitive conditions, physical or stationary work, services or production. And then we know that an increasingly large part of the labour market is exposed to international competition. Another development that has been going on for a long time, without the Storting ever addressing the problem, is that many people choose to take out the growth we've seen in recent years, differently. For some, it means the growth in income that they want to work even more, since it's profitable. For others, increased income means that they want to work less and have more leisure time, as they now get better advice. Experience in the last two decades suggests that, overall, the population wants to take some of the prosperity development we have had out in more leisure time. It requires the Labour Environment Act to offer increased flexibility to the labour market in order to address precisely these challenges. Demographic projections show that labour shortages are becoming one of the major challenges in Norwegian working life in the future, regardless of the current situation — with somewhat adjusted unemployment. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are followers of a strong labour-environment law, where the main rule is fixed employment, where the working time framework is to be continued, where the flexibility of the workplace is to be greater than today, and where violations of the labour-environment law are to be penalised harder and more stringent than today. The Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left are now fulfilling the commitments to increase the use of working time averages, which will help to resolve the needs of many enterprises for flexibility, as reported. Variations in the number of jobs are common, and employees need to be able to work more for one period, in return for equivalent freedom in other periods. The cooperation parties believe that the use of a long-term watch could help to increase the number of full-time employees and increase the number of employees. A number of jobs using this today report an increase in service quality, while a number of jobs report a central rejection of the renewal of these tour arrangements by trade unions. Local trustees together with employees and employers will, in our view, be able to find good solutions to tournament arrangements, as they do today, without going about Oslo and the trade unions centrally. If there is doubt or disagreement, this may be agreed directly with the Labour Inspectorate or the Petroleum Inspectorate. Now there is also an embellishment about Sunday work, i.e. you can work more Sundays in a row than today. It will benefit the travel industry, it will benefit the restaurant industry, it will benefit young people, but not least it will benefit those who do not want to work on Sundays, because more people who want it will have the opportunity to work more, as well as those who do not want to work more, will have the opportunity to get free – in other words, that there will be an average calculation for Sunday work where the framework is maintained, but where the number of Sundays in a row can be worked is increased. That means an increase in flexibility. Life expectancy for men at 65 years of age has increased from 79,5 years in 1986 to 83.4 years in 2013. Life expectancy for women increased from 83.7 years to 86.2 years in the same period. There is an increase in the remaining life span of almost 4 years for men and 2.5 years for women. The average age at which economically active people can expect to leave the labour market has been increasing, from 61 in 2003 to 65 in 2014. And I'm pretty sure this, with the changes the size of today, will rise in the future. An increasing proportion of the active population can expect to wait to leave the labour market until after they have reached the age of 67. The share that continues to work shows research, increases by 20–50 pst. when the age limit increases by one year. Raising the age limit in the Working Environment Act will make it easier for those who want to work even after the age of 70. I do not see any serious reasons why 70-year-olds are going to lose the protection against dismissal they currently have in the Working Environment Act. I believe it is wasted on human resources and I am therefore committed to limiting access to lower occupational age limits than 70 years to cases where this is only necessary for health or safety reasons. There I am pleased that the Center Party has broken out of the red-green cooperation and supported the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The cooperation parties are associated with tripartite cooperation between the country, the employee organisations and the employers’ organisations. The right is dependent on the organisation of working life in Norway. Organised employees through trade unions and organised enterprises through employers' associations contribute to the stability, structure and seriousness of business. That's why the changes we've made, largely favored the organized working life to a greater extent than the unorganized one. It is part of the entire package that Stortinget will now take a decision on. But of course, the Right is also a member of the Freedom of Association. It's the individual human being and the individual enterprise that has to decide for themselves whether you're earned membership. The cooperation parties agree with the government on a number of other proposals, including: Today, it is decided to remove collective redress, as proposed by the government, and as promised in the election campaign. It's a system that's not used very well, that has legal challenges with it, and that we're now proposing to cancel. In addition, the government has received full support from all parties in this room to increase the penalties for breaches of the labour protection law and the Public Service Act. We provide significant resources for research in Norwegian working life, and we provide increased resources to the Labour Inspectorate in order to ensure good and rapid processing as a result of new tasks and responsibilities, not only in this law, but also in the matter that comes next. Collaborative parties strengthen the work between relevant supervision to improve the information available on alerts. We're going to strengthen alerts legislation, there's going to be a common guide with information about rights and obligations for all the parties involved, there's going to be an information campaign on alerts in cooperation with the social partners, we're going to suggest that alert procedures should become a mandatory requirement and a minimum content of these procedures should be clarified. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee again, and not least Committee Secretary Berit Skovly and Senior Consultant Ingunn Oppsahl Viered for good work. We have been able to deliver quite well from us over three dense weeks of treatment. As I have seen the situation, the Committee has been satisfied with the way in which the work of the Committee has been carried out. The size will today adopt a forward-looking work environment law that will help to equip Norwegian working life for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e543	The representative, Kambe, said that the Stortinge today adopts carefully decorations in the Working Environment Act. It is strange, then, that thousands of thousands of people went to a general strike on 28 January – if these are careful decorations. The voters don't get what they voted for, and the right went to the election. In its programme, the Right says, among other things: that they would ‘soften the rules for temporary employment if necessary’. When the national meeting adopted this in 2013, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said: ‘We do not go as far as the Bondevik Government as’ — at that time — ‘proposed a general access to temporary employment’. When we warned that this was going to happen, we were told that we were painting black. But the government – and the Right – is now going beyond what they promised in the election campaign. Is the representative Kambe satisfied with the new general access to temporary employment, or did the representative Kambe prefer that the Right did as they promised in the election campaign – reserved temporaryity for temporary work, and so did not break the election promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e557	The right is very pleased to present changes to the Working Environment Act — which is high time. After eight red-green years, it was over-mature to do something about the flexibility of working life, which the Labour Party had completely ignored. This, together with the fact that so many hundreds of thousands of people had been out of work for a long time – without the red-green government being able to find a way – made it necessary to find new solutions to get them into the labour market. Therefore, we introduce a general access to temporary employment, which is not so general that it is fully general. It has a number of constraints. One is, among other things: that no enterprise can have more than 15 pst. temporary staff. No enterprise that chooses not to hire the person temporarily employed for 12 months is allowed to use general access for the next 12 months. We have also tightened up on average calculations – to which other companies have access. I believe that in sum this is an excellent simplification for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e566	What we are adopting today, too, is a very good example of the fact that even though the Right won the election, you did not gain the mandate of the people to do what you are doing now. The representative Kambe is also now trying to create confusion about what you're actually adopting. It's not like you're doing what you promised in the election campaign. You open up a general access to temporary employment without any conditions. You promised that temporary work would be carried out on a temporary basis. Kambe's own State Council, State Council Eriksson, is a little more honest when he says in answer to a written question that there is nothing in the bill that requires tasks to be of a temporary nature in order to use the access. I give the representative Kambe the chance one more time: you promised the voters to maintain temporaryity related to work of a temporary nature and not a universal access without conditions. Can the representative at least in the name of propriety today admit that the Council of State is right, and that you in the Right promised the voters something quite different from what you are now adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e575	The President will draw the attention of the representative to the fact that all speeches should be addressed to the President, and they are not said to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e578	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e583	One of the main reasons why this government is promoting the proposals is the sense of reality we totally disagreed with the previous government. There were hundreds of thousands of people outside the labour market, who, despite good Nav actions, despite well-meaning employers, were not able to participate in the labour market. They stood and knocked on the door — especially young people, especially immigrants and particularly people with disabilities. We lower the threshold to give them a new chance in the world of work. We're sure this will increase employment. All statistics in Norway show that half of those employed in temporary jobs are in full-time permanent jobs after one year and two thirds after two years. This has led us, among other things, to: I have also undertaken to reduce the four-year rule to a general three-year rule, except for projects, which I hoped the Workers' Party would also agree with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e590	Holy peace is important to many of us. We may not be able to do it, but that's our personal goal. It's a great good. For the Central Party, working for the Holy Day is also a political goal. The government is proud of the softening, one is proud that more people are going to work Sundays and holidays, and this is called flexibility. At the same time, it is told that this flexibility means that there are several people who now do not need to work on Sundays and holidays. Cannot the representative explain the content of ‘flexibility’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e596	In the case of Sunday and public holidays, the Cooperation Parties shall maintain today’s wording on this, precisely that it shall be prohibited. In the case of Sunday work, the cooperation parties increase access to this. Today you can work two out of three weekends in a row. Now we're increasing it to three out of four, and that, in addition, within an average calculation, not more Sundays, but more Sundays in a row within the same rules. The flexibility in this of course applies to students, who would like to work a lot in July, August and maybe September, when they have time, and it's about the tourist industry, which has peaks, whether it's winter, Easter or summer season for travel. Then it makes sense that if more people want to work Sundays but are not allowed to work, the employer has to find someone else to work on those Sundays. There could be people who couldn't imagine working that very day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e601	I understand here that what is right is that some older people who don't want to work so much on Sundays and holidays are going to get better out because they're being relieved of the duties that they're part of today. But my question really depends on what kind of value anchoring today's management in the Right. Is there something you want to avoid with increased Sunday and holiday work, or has it simply become a goal for the Right that it is okay that it evolves in such a direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e608	In the case of Sunday work, in all the proposals in this case, either the primary proposals or what has been negotiated in the Stortinget, the Right said that the number of Sundays to be worked per employee should be equal. What we have said is that society has changed, and the fact that you can only work two in a row instead of three or four in a row, or five in a row for that matter, is overdue for a change, just because we believe that Sunday work is needed. There are many who need to have Sunday open-air – not necessarily shops, but in the case of nursing homes, old-age homes, happy institutions, preparedness, culture, catering and tourist destinations. We believe that the embellishment we are doing is a necessary part of living in a modern society, balancing the interests of the labour market, the interests of employees and employers in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e613	The representative, Mr. Kambe, spoke about how the government wants to change the practice of approving working time and the tour. All of us in the Labour and Social Committee were at the same hearing, where both the Nurses' Association, the Trade Union and others who organize the people who work the tournament could tell that most of the tournaments today are centrally approved by the trade unions. In cases where this does not happen, there is talk of the fact that decisive rest periods for employees are not being observed – it is then about extreme tournaments that can harm people's lives and health. When there is a backstop, that most of the tournaments are being observed today, except very few where one cannot reach an agreement on a rest period – why do you think that it is essential and necessary to change that approval system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e620	For the Right, it is important to ensure that employees are given the opportunity of larger job fractions, that more people are given the opportunity to have full jobs, and that users of the services or customers – at the places where they have it – are given a better service offer than they are receiving today. Then it is absolutely correct that many of the tour arrangements that exist today will almost in any case be approved. The problem is that they are approved for one year at a time. It gives you little stability. Many of the trade unions centrally have called this monster tournament, and several municipalities now report that they get no, and that they are notified of no. In a number of workplaces, people report themselves out of the trade unions, so that the local workplace and local staff can accept the tournament scheme to which the central trade unions have refused. Since there is no longer a trade union at work, the Labour Inspectorate takes care of this and often approves it because the Labour Inspectorate – obviously – has a more comprehensive approach to it than any of the central trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e627	Central trade unions today make a significant contribution to this recognition work and have a unique competence both in terms of tariffs, subject areas, research on rest periods, etc. I wonder if the representative Kambe sees that there can be a great pressure on local trustees to go in for, or approve, tournaments and working hours that could be dangerous to their health?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e632	No – simply because the prerequisite for the approval of alternative rotational arrangements is that there should be sufficient rest between the sessions. It's solid, it doesn't change. The point for us is that when a challenge or need enters a job, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that it is best solved by the employees talking together, and that the trustee locally talks to his employer, who is a serious employer, to know how to do this in order to improve the conditions of the employees and the users of the services. In addition, we increase well-being, increase jobs and increase job breaks. It is such a good project: I believe that the dialogue you have locally at the workplace is important, and I hope that this process helps to strengthen the influence of local trade unions, that more people actually become members of their trade union and do not sign up to prevent the union from vetoing their working hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e642	The Labour Party is concerned that we should have a world-class working life, where the policy facilitates high employment, high productivity, high levels of innovation and adaptability, and that we should have a working life where both women and men and those who are 100 pst. fresh, and non-participating. We're concerned that our job should be a good place to be, where we have influence, where we get to evolve, where it's a short way from head to employee, and where people feel security and thus create more. The Working Environment Act is only a small part of the policy that creates the fine machinery of the Norwegian working life model. The law has been amended 50 times. I heard the representative Kambe say that today's law is ten years old. That's not right. Most of the time, the Working Environment Act has been amended by the Labour Party — always in line with the needs and challenges of work and society. We changed it by 2013 at the latest, when we introduced increased entitlement to full-time work, in order to overcome involuntary part-time work. And we put in place new, powerful instruments to combat work-life crime. It's because there's two of the biggest challenges in the world of work and society. It was modern and necessary changes. I guess the government parties also have an ambition to preserve and develop a world-class working life, and they're also trying to set up policies to that end. But it seems that today's government is weakening the Working Environment Act because it's an objective in itself, because the changes we're going to adopt here tonight don't reflect in any way the reality of working life, the challenges or the everyday problems that most people experience on their bodies. What is the reality of working life, and what challenges do we have to solve? Yes, we have to get more people to work – regular work. The combination of working life and family life must be easier and it must be more difficult to be unprofessional and work-life criminals. Then we need work time regulations that ensure people's health, so that they can stand out in work, that ensure that both women and men can combine having family and children with working, and that people who are not 100 pst. the whole time, also gets one place and not squeezed out. And we need more powerful measures against social dumping and labour crime. If the government were concerned about meeting these challenges, they should have made proposals today for changes to the Working Environment Act that made it easier to meet those challenges. Is that what the government is doing? No, it doesn't. On the contrary, the government is looking at professional advice that says that the changes in total can lead to increased sick leave, more exclusion, that it may be more difficult for people with disabilities to get into work and to go to work, and that more women will choose part-time to be able to hang out with. That's what the Labour Inspectorate says, that's what the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work says, that's what the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman says. And a collective employee page, which organizes millions of workers, went to the general strike against the proposals. This is because longer shifts, more overtime and more weekends as a whole increase the risk of health problems, accidents, sick leave and exclusion – the plight of the opposite of working life and ordinary people in very common occupations, with heavy lifting or many patients, now needs. The proposals could make it more difficult for many people to combine family life with working life and to strengthen the time frame, which we are dedicated to solving. None of the small children's parents I know, who are struggling to get the cabal with houses, homes, jobs and leisure activities to go up, say that only they got to work a little longer guards, a little more overtime and a little more weekends, then it would be much easier to get the cabal to go up. Nobody says that. Norway has a higher level of female employment than other countries. This is because of, and not despite, the working time rules. It also says the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and an overall employee page. It's these rules that government parties are now moving in the wrong direction. It's the true opposite of the working life and the common people who are struggling with the time clamp, now need. The government's proposals will make it more difficult to combat social dumping and crime at work. We have a reality where people are underpaid and treated in the most unworthy way. Serious actors in many industries are being wiped out. We have almost weekly examples of this happening – despite the strong efforts of the red-green government. Then we need more powerful measures against social dumping and crime at work. Then we need the policy to facilitate more transparent conditions, more fixed employment and fewer loopholes for the unprofessional. Does the government's changes do that? No, on the contrary. We are used to the fact that the government parties and the right-hand side do not listen to the Workers' Party, but on the contrary our proposals for action against social dumping and labour-life-criminalism are opposed – not later than Christmas, when we proposed 22 new ones. We're used to that. However, they also do not choose to listen to the Labour Inspectorate and Kripos, who warn that changes by the government will make it difficult to combat just work-life crime serious. More use of temporary employment, less equal treatment of hired and permanent workers and the removal of social dumping measures will make it easier, not more difficult, to be unprofessional — the very opposite of what the labour market now needs. It is the very opposite of the construction worker from Lithuania, who is underpaid and not afraid to say because he is dependent on income, and who sees that his proud trades are in danger of confusion, needs now. That's the very opposite of all of the serious Norwegian companies that are going to go bankrupt because it's impossible to run seriously, now needs to. The changes we are making here today will make it harder to meet all these challenges. People see that, and that's why people are against it. Its own trade unions and supervisory bodies are also negative. Nevertheless, government parties continue to pretend that changes are the best thing for people's everyday lives, and that they will have a positive impact on employment, sick leave, time lag and crime at work. We've seen it before. The same batches claimed that the right of reservation was for the benefit of women themselves. The victim would profit from being deprived of social security. The Community would serve to sell away from natural resources. Once again, the government parties claim to know people better than they do, and rely on the government's brother-in-law's research from Verdal. Many ask why it is so dangerous to expand the average calculation – most people have tipped the top of the job and a cool boss! That's right. Norwegian employment consists largely of serious enterprises and employers who would never like to cross the line and treat their employees badly. Yes, most of the employers I'm talking to are so serious that they really didn't need any work environment laws to behave properly, but that's not the whole picture of what Norwegian working life looks like. The employers who are not such do not organise and do not attend our hearings. We need a work environment law that innovates that some people need flexibility, while others need more protection — hence, the Labour Environment Act precisely emphasises the need for flexibility and protection. Unlike the Right and Advance Party, we take inwards that it is not that the employee and the employer are equivalent parties. Then we can't have a law like that later on. An employee of a car wash where the employer presses can use the legal framework as an emergency brake, while an employee of an IT company, who wants to work a lot, can agree to it. This is how the law works today. People are different and have different needs – the law takes that into account. Enterprises are different and have different needs — the law takes this into account as well. The government's proposed changes do not offer any new opportunities for the type of flexibility and no new benefits for workers they do not already have through the contract work – none. On the contrary, they weaken the protection of those who already feel the pressure. In addition, the law today makes it more difficult to understand, use and enforce by introducing complex rules and discrimination against temporary staff. It is also the true opposite of the Norwegian working life now needed. The working party is too flexible for those who want it, and we're too protective for those who need it. We need changes in the Working Environment Act that make it easier to get people into permanent jobs and to keep people in regular jobs, easier to combine family life with working life and more difficult to be unprofessional. It is the needs of the labour force and society. The government's proposal for amendments, which we are going to adopt here today, is immature. These are weaknesses and old ideas that you've tried before and that don't work. In total, changes make it more difficult to meet the challenges of working life and the needs of society. That is why the Labour Party is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e682	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e685	I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e691	The representative Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e696	Under the legislation of today's Working Environment Act, nine out of ten dispensations applications for the approval of alternative turns are approved by central trade unions. But it also happens that central trade unions say no. And there are many cases where local trustees agree with the employer, but leave it to apply, because they know they're going to get a negative answer. Why does the Workers' Party think that central trade unions should have the power and authority to reduce the number of solutions that both employees and employers want locally? And doesn't the Labour Party see that there is something fundamentally problematic in that one of the parties has a central veto right in negotiations on working time that there is agreement on local?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e703	It is based on a fundamental misunderstanding that trade unions have a central right to veto and a right to say no to what is agreed locally. What we have said, in the law, and on which there has been a cross-political agreement until today's government took over, is that because the social partners and trade unions are at the heart of tariffs and already negotiate pay and working time issues – tariff agreements can reduce working time less than what the legal framework limits – trade unions can, therefore, centrally set aside the whole law if you want to. It is such that nine out of ten applications are accepted, as the representative here said. It is a flexible system that works well. When we want to keep the system as it is today, that the trade unions are central to making the decision, it is because the trustees locally want it. They say that in those cases where there is no real consensus locally, it's okay to have the central associations to rely on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e710	Increasing the age limit for job protection to 72 years, we believe, has an important symbolic effect. It gives a signal that older workers are wanted in the workplace, and it is more adapted to the new pension reform, where you can earn pension credits until you are 75 years old. Age limits have not changed since 1972, and people are both healthier and live many years longer on average than 40 years ago. Today's 70-year-olds are actually called the new 50-year-olds. Why does the Workers' Party oppose the strengthening of employment protection for seniors in working life when they say in the comments that they see the need to make this adjustment to the age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e717	We in the Workers' Party have as programme formulation, and we also say this in the remarks, that it will be necessary to adapt the age limits to the new pension reform and in line with the fact that people live longer. What's the point here is that unlike the government parties, the Workers' Party would do that job of raising the age limit in working life in a proper way. Tripartite cooperation is available for use. We would have done it with the parties. We listen to our friends in Work, in the NHO, in the UNIO and in the LO who say that this can have negative consequences. It may work against its purpose. And we have to look at all the laws taken together, and not, as the government is doing now, impose on private business and private sector demands that are not given to the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e724	I understand that today must be a little sad for the Workers' Party when much of the horror propaganda that has come is now being clearly refuted. The previous question was also about age limits, because the Workers' Party has been a party that has tried to give the impression that they want to strengthen the rights of workers, and takes the credit for being the party that has provided it historically. Today, we have a concrete proposal to increase the protection of older workers, thus strengthening the rights of older workers – not an obligation – and shifting power from the employer to the employee. Then my question is: why is the Workers' Party opposed to strengthening the rights of older workers, why would they rather strengthen the rights of employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e729	We are voting against the government's proposal to raise the age limits in the Labour Environment Act because the government parties have not taken any interest in discussing this with the social partners, either with the employees' side or with the employers' side. We're voting against because the same ones, NHO, Working, Union, LO, etc. – The Pensioners’ Association also – says that the way this is done, without seeing all the laws as a whole and without taking the rest of the senior policy up to discussion, may lead to the opposite of what the government parties want to achieve. This could lead to employers leaving to hire older people. It's not a wild development for us in the Workers' Party. We believe that tripartite cooperation is needed to be used, even when it comes to reforms that will be sustainable over time and have a proper impact. We would have come, if we had power, to do this thoroughly with the parties, look at all the laws at one time and take the entire senior policy up to discussion, so that we could actually achieve that several older people were in work longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e734	I have noted a great deal of commitment from the representative Trettebergstien and others in the Workers' Party to the changes that are going to be adopted today. At least I have registered that they want to reverse the changes concerning temporary employment. What I am asking is: what does the representative think about the changes for the average calculation, overtime and alert protection, the criminal penalties for combating crime at work, etc.? Is it such that the Workers' Party wants to reverse everything that is adopted today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e739	The answer to that is no. We are in favour of the criminal code of criminality that we are adopting here today. We're in on them. Then we've said that we're going to reverse what the government is doing now in terms of temporaryity, because we think people are going to have job protection. It's best with regular work, and what the government is now doing is going to lead to fewer people getting a regular job. We're going to reverse that. We are voting against all the changes in working time because, as I explained in my post, the rules are taken in the wrong direction and make it harder for people to combine working life and family life, etc. When we return to government, we guarantee that we will reverse the general opening for temporary employment. Then we're going to do what we did in 2005, sit down with the social partners, listen to the trade union movement and look at the needs of the world of work. Then we have to introduce new rules into the Working Environment Act in line with the needs of the labour market, as we have always done. It has always been, until today, a strengthening. It's also going to be when we get government again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e750	The representative Trettebergstien gave a very good story about the relationship between a good working life and a good private life, and was very clear that the Workers' Party will reverse the temporaryity when they return to the government offices. The Central Party fully agrees with this. We're on it together. There are a number of rules here that go in the wrong direction. At the same time, the representative says that more and more people are being underpaid in the most unworthy way. It's an important confession to the Center Party. So, despite the fact that a number of good things have been done, evolution goes for a lot of people in the wrong direction. My question is then simple: Is the time for some maritime criticism in the Workers' Party as well? Perhaps something has gone wrong – something that could have been done better? Does the representative have an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e759	Thank you for the question. The red-green government, of which the representative Lundtigen's party was also a part, led to a strong effort and a fight against social dumping and labour-life crime. Through four action plans with over 50 measures, we were able to stagnate some of the developments we are now seeing. Fafo has evaluated the effort and says that there had been more work-life crime without the red-green effort. When we lost the election, we had by no means finished developing society. We had by no means completed the fight against social dumping and labour-life crime. We presented a new action plan with 22 powerful new measures before Christmas that the government voted against. We have presented 10 measures to combat social dumping in the transport sector. We continue to fully strengthen the fight against the crime of working life that the representative here describes the consequences. But unfortunately, we do not get the government parties on the same page.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e767	The Labour Party has warned that they are in favour of any proposal for more flexibility in working time for the individual worker, with a significant mistrust of the individual employee, local trade unions and the Labour Inspectorate. In January, when the debate went high in all channels and there were demonstrations, Centio Research carried out a poll asking people – workers – whether they thought flexible working hours were good for workers, and whether they thought it was good for employers. A large number of people said yes to it. On the question of whether they wanted to have the opportunity to work more in periods against getting more time off in other periods, a large majority said they did. My question to the Workers' Party is: If the representative Trietenbergstuen had been called in January by Centio, would she agree or disagree with the plurality of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e778	I can confirm that I am also of those who believe that flexibility in working life is a good thing. Today we have. As I said in my post, the Working Environment Act emphasises the need for protection and the need for flexibility in a very good way. None of today's government's proposals offer more flexibility for workers who are not already available today. What the government is doing is moving power and making it harder to resist. On 28 January, there were 20,000 people outside Stortinget. There were thousands of thousands in all cities in all the counties throughout Norway who demonstrated against the so-called flexibility they get. It wasn't the Workers' Party they demonstrated against. They demonstrated against the government because most people have understood that the law today provides opportunities. What the government is really doing is making it harder to say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e787	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e790	Finally, the day is here – a day that I think many have looked forward to. It's basically two big things we're dealing with today. Afterwards, we will deal with a matter that is about helping people into working life, while now we are dealing with a matter of creating more flexibility for those who are in work – we are dealing with a matter that can make it easier to continue to be in the workplace for people who are at risk of falling out of it. Creating flexibility in the workplace is about securing jobs, and it is about having a work environment law that is adapted to modern society. The Labour Environment Act is an important law, which provides for a good and orderly relationship of power between the employee and the employer. But it is also a challenge to create a law that will apply to all types of enterprises, both large and small, in different industries and in different municipalities. It's a challenge, because no people are the same, and no business is the same. It is then important to have flexibility in the Labour Environment Act, so that there is room for discussion in the individual workplace, up to good arrangements adapted to the needs and wishes of both the employer and the employee. Some people try to produce employment in Norway as if there is a high contrast between the employer and the employee. It is a claim that both I and the Progress Party strongly disagree. Because there is something the employers and businesses depend on, there are well-motivated employees. It is the most important resource in each and every enterprise. At the same time, however, employees also depend on having a safe job, and I have confidence in the local discussions in the individual workplaces. The statistics show that nine out of ten workers thrive at work. They believe that good solutions are found in good dialogue between the employer and the employee. I am therefore pleased that the main act we are doing today is transferring power and authority down to those who know where the shoe is pressing, so that we can get customized solutions. Despite the fact that there has been a considerable amount of scare propaganda about this matter, let me make one point: all the changes we are proposing here today, require local consensus. This means that if the employer and the employee agree on changes, changes can be made. If the employer or employee does not wish to change, there will be no change either. I would also like to thank the government and the Council of State very much, which provided a good basis for putting this heavy, big and important law into place and the adjustments and modernisation of it. I would like to thank the employers' and employees' organisations, which have made many good contributions along the way, and I would like to thank the cooperation partners Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left for having demonstrated good flexibility – all parties have given and taken to achieve our common goal, to secure jobs and to provide flexibility. Today's work environment law dates from 1977. It was then a good work environment law in many areas. Then there have been some adjustments, but we have to realize that society in 2015 is different from society in 1977. No human being is an A4 human being. Work life has changed. Fewer and fewer have standardised jobs – eight to four jobs – but all have different needs, abilities and desires. We see that family forms change, we see that more have shared care for their children. I'm glad that with this law, we are better able to make sure that a single mother or a single father who cares for his children every other week, now, if they want to, will be able to work more in the periods they don't have the children, in exchange for more freedom in the periods they have the children. That's an example of some of the flexibility we want to give. Then there has also been a lot of focus on Sunday work. With the changes we are now proposing, it's not about someone working more Sundays than you do today. Not one Sunday more than today we add up to. What we're adding is that you can work a few more Sundays in a row in exchange for free on other Sundays. It can be excellent for people in different situations of life. A student who is at home on vacation and perhaps wants to work three Sundays in a row, will now be allowed to do so. And what happens when those who want to work a few more Sundays in a row, for example. The student, is that allowed? Then those who may not want to work on Sundays can get more out of work on Sundays, because we have now opened up so that the student can do it. During the debate that has taken place in the last year, it has also been presented by some parties as if people can now be forced to work 13 hours of work, and that is not the way. That is incorrect information. In the proposal Stortinget deals with today, there is no increase in overtime imposed, but if the employee and the employer wish to do so locally or local trade unions should be able to work a little more overtime to make ends meet. It's about the basic trust we have in local relationships, not only for the individuals, but also for the local trust leaders – that they know best where the shoe prints. That's also why we move power from Youngstorget down to the local trustee when it comes to the famous right of veto in tournament arrangements. We believe that this is more democratic and will ensure greater flexibility. Then, at the same time, we ensure that we have a safety valve by ensuring that the Labour Inspectorate as a neutral and independent party is to check that the HMS requirements are satisfied, because that is important. However, if the HMS requirements are satisfied, the Progress Party considers it unproblematic to agree locally on other tour arrangements. Another thing that is pleasing to the Progress Party that we are getting through today is about the unworthy treatment of many older workers. The party of progress has long been in favour of raising the age limits in the labour market, because we want individuals to be able to choose for themselves how long they want to stand in the labour market. Those who want to leave between 62 and 67 years of age should still have the opportunity to do so – freely – while those who want to work beyond 70 years should have the opportunity to do so. Many older people might want to work in half jobs, for example, when they round 70, and I don't understand why the opposition in this room is voting against our proposal to strengthen the rights of older workers, and that you want more of the power to be with the employer than with the employee. The party disagrees that older people should wear a date stamp. We believe that it is the ability and the desire of the individual worker to determine the length of working life. Now that we are creating a more flexible labour-environment law, which provides greater room for action locally, it is also important – and I am very pleased about it – that the government is in favour of, and the Storting is now deciding to increase the level of penalties for breaches of the labour-environment law. Because when we have a flexible law, it is also important to follow it. We're going to have zero tolerance to work-life crime, and I'm very happy that where others talked, we're acting, by now increasing the level of penalties for breaches of the labour-environment law. A 1977 Labour Environment Act is being adapted today to the flexibility that many people want in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e821	I thought I would ask a question about something the representative Wiborg chose not to mention in his post, but that is an important part of the matter. The Progress Party likes to call itself the party law and order and the little man defends, and I guess the representative Wiborg has a clear view of who is the ‘small man’ in labour crime cases about illegal rental and social dumping. If so, why does the law-and-order party go in to abolish the collective redress system?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e826	We are clear that if you are exposed to unreasonableness, you should of course be able to raise a case about it. But there's a difference here: we're clear that the rule of law has some basic principles, and that's that if someone wants to go to trial on behalf of you, you have to want to do it yourself. We're against anyone going to trial on behalf of others who don't want to do it on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e831	On the basis of that answer, does the Progress Party really believe that it is more in line with fundamental legal principles that people continue to be illegally hired and underpaid than actually to reveal and put an end to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e836	No, and that is why the Advance Party and the government – and now the cooperation parties – strengthen the level of punishment for the crime of working life. By doing so, we send a clear signal to the unprofessional employers that this is behaviour we do not tolerate and that we are going to hit hard. That is also why today's government has chosen to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate considerably more than what Lise Christoffersen and her government did, because we believe it is important to have an independent and good agency to control working life. The representative Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party want to rest everything, to a large extent, on some trade unions and let them have the control task – and they do a good job of controlling. But there's still a lot of people out of organized work, up to 60 pst. Then it is important that we have strong work supervision, that is why we strengthen it, and I think it is nice that the Workers' Party did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e841	The working party is a supporter of strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, and we have done so several times while we have been in government, and we will continue to do so too. But I have another question, which is about unprofessional employers, local consensus and the things that the representative Wiborg has been talking about in his post. The Drammen's Official Journal currently writes about a case which started with a so-called local agreement, but which really applies to gross underpayment in the garden area, with working days up to 14 hours, without holidays, and with 18 000 to 20000 kroner in wages and salaries for six months of work. Only one of those who was exploited wanted to explain himself to the court. Can the representative Wiborg imagine why the others don't want to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e848	Yeah, there's a lot of reasons for that. But what I'm saying is that we have a strong focus on work-life crime: we strengthen the agencies that control and detect this, and we increase the level of punishment. But I think it's interesting that the representative Christoffersen is dealing with underpayment challenges, because it's not long since we've been dealing with a case here that it might be time to work out a national minimum wage, which would ensure that no one could be underpaid. It was then decided by the representative Lise Christoffersen to vote against, to get at least an investigation of that question, which would ensure that we would not have people underpaid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e856	There were some words that went a lot again, and there was «flexibility» and «modern society». But nevertheless, there are some values that stand firm and some stabbestones that are placed in a community, among other things. That cohesion makes it strong, that it is important to be trade-organised, and that it must be promoted, and perhaps most importantly that we stimulate the authoritative human being, stimulates man to get up and tell him what is right and wrong without being afraid that he will lose his relationship with the employer. There are some basic values of fixed employment and freedom of expression that intersect through this talk of flexibility and modernity. But the modern society of which the Advance Party is such a supporter implies, according to the values of the Advance Party, that more people should work on Sundays and public holidays?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e863	This may be the difference between Lundtigen and the undersigned. I don't want to interfere in how people choose to organize their lives, which jobs they want to have, or when they want to work. I think it should be up to the individual worker to decide for himself what is appropriate for the individual rather than for us in this room to decide what is best for 5 million Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e868	It's a very important clarification, what the representative of the Progress Party here says, that with words like «flexibility» and «modern society», society at the Stortinget should not facilitate rules that make the «black» days the days on which we work, and «red» days are the days when we try to rest, it should be up to each one, it should be up to the conditions of power in society what becomes the situation there. It's very clear that this is what's in the concept of modern society, because then we're all about a completely new social organization, contrary to the values that we've built up so far, and that's what more and more people are experiencing, that it's the basic vision that's at the root, and what creates more freedom for the many because they have to work at times that someone else doesn't want to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e875	I didn't see the exact question in the last line. But let me say that with regard to the proposals we are dealing with here today, it is not a matter of someone working Sundays in total, but it is a matter of people in different phases of life perhaps wanting to work a few more Sundays for some periods in exchange for free other Sundays. I find it strange that Lundtigen and the Senterpartiet are against a student who is at home on vacation to be able to work three Sundays in a row. That is what the Progress Party believes and I am positive, and it is also positive for those who have other wishes and choices. Those who want to be free on a Sunday will be able to get it easier when, for example. are students who have the opportunity to work on a Sunday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e880	The modern society, which Wiborg's representative is talking about, is in many industries today characterized by the fact that only the work environment law protects the individual, and hardly that. In those jobs that do not have a collective agreement, which is about 30 p.m., and in many of them with a collective agreement and a lack of education of trust and protection, today's law does not work either. I'm fascinated by this threat that Wiborg has on the individual worker's power. How many retail outlets, how many cleaners, how many hotel added and restaurant added have Wiborg discussed this with? I wonder if Wiborg cares about these big groups that today have so flexible that they hardly know about the next watch, and much less get help using the law that one now will change and weaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e887	Let me say that I'm a little surprised, because now SV has only been talking about eight years and now in the opposition period about the working environment law we have is so perfect, there is no need for changes and adjustments, and it's well adapted, and you think it's modern. And then SV comes here and believes that today's work environment law does not work, and that it affects an inappropriate number of people. Yes, I agree with the reality description that today's work environment law is not good enough for many, whether it is the cleaning worker who might want to work more for some periods in exchange for free in other periods. So I fully agree that today's work environment law does not provide enough flexibility in that area. If these are people, e.g. a student or someone else, who might want to work more during the period when you are not responsible for their children in exchange for freedom during the periods you have children, I fully agree that today's work environment law does not provide enough flexibility. It is interesting, as said, that SV now believes that today's work environment law is not well adapted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e894	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e897	The Christian People's Party fights for a safe, family-friendly and flexible working life. We want to have a working life that creates space for more people, which includes people who have fallen outside or never entered, who create a greater room for immigrants and people with disabilities or working skills, which makes us able to help young people get into work faster, and which allows seniors to endure. Work is important for the individual; it creates social networks; it is human dignity to be allowed to use its characteristics in the workplace. Fortunately, most of the Norwegian working life is serious and good. Then there are some parts of the world of work that are unprofessional and that are not good enough. That is why this matter is very much about combating social dumping and unprofessional working life. That is why we are pleased that we have been involved in strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, that we have other proposals – the Christian People’s Party currently has representatives on social dumping. We are also pleased with the changes that are punishable for violations of the Public Service Act and the Work Environment Act adopted here today. With this as a hindrance, I'm also pleased with the other changes that the majority is presenting to the Storting today. I would also like to thank the Progress Party, the Right and the Left for the good cooperation we have had in order to arrive at the majority vote on which this is based today. I want to bring forward some of the most important changes. It will be more possible to decide for yourself how to work. It's going to be the same framework for the year, but it's going to be more likely to work a little bit less in periods, if you want it, and you need it, to have to work a little bit more later. The whole debate today is about whether it is weakening or strengthening the rights of workers. I fully believe that it is to strengthen the employees' rights, because you get a greater opportunity to agree on your own. And then I have faith that the local trustees are competent. We are pleased that there is increased flexibility, and that thus one does not go further on the proposal to impose more overtime. This is to strengthen the rights of the employee, not to strengthen the power of the employer. At the same time, I can also stress that some of the changes that lie here also make it easier to run businesses. We are pleased with the increased penalties because we need a stronger fight against the crime of working life. There is an important role for the Labour Inspectorate. Criminal law also has an effect, but most of all it is to be out there fighting, to discover, to exercise control – we should also strengthen that in the future. We are pleased to see an increase in alert protection. I can only mention the Monika case from the Hordaland police district. The winners of the Free Word Prize were alerters. Strengthening the situation of alerts is important for the best possible working life. We are also pleased that age limits are increasing. Both the fact that it is possible to be able to work for one is 72 years old and the company's internal age limit up to 70 means that we are helping to strengthen the seniors' rights. We've seen things where people who have wanted to stay longer in work have been fired just because they've reached an age limit – that's something we're about to do. We're also happy with the part that goes on Sunday work, that it won't be more Sunday work. It's because we believe in a different day of the week that it's still going to be that way that you can work a maximum of 13 Sundays and holidays in the six months, but that it could be three in a row instead of two in a row. But it's more about flexibility, that you can choose to work it yourself, if you want it. We are also pleased with the orders that Stortinget gives today to look at, among other things. particularly independent positions. This means that, in the case of part of those exempted from the whole of the Work Environment Act today, one should at least consider how to prevent abuse of that provision. That's an important piece. Late today, we will also discuss what is going on in an inclusive working life and temporary employment. But from the Christian People's Party we are pleased with the changes that lie here. It will create a working life that will include more people and will give more power to individuals to decide over their working day in order to create a more family-friendly and flexible working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e926	We in the Labour Party are pleased that the Christian People's Party had changed the proposal from the government in a positive direction, among others. in the case of Sunday work. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that the main thrust of the proposal from the government is firm, and that this attracted the working life in one direction one would initially believe the Christian People's Party was little comfortable with. Does the representative ever know that he has behaved differently with buttons and glossy images?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e933	Thank you for the question. No, certainly not, and the observer can enter the party program of the Christian People's Party and read the provisions that relate to precisely those points. Later we'll probably discuss another matter where the Christian People's Party had a different program point in terms of temporary employment, but so to speak, the Christian People's Party programme is fulfilled by these changes. It's about wanting the family-friendly, flexible working life that gives rights to the employees. That is why, as the representative also points out, it was important for us to stop, for example, the bit that was imposed on overtime, but also this by making Sunday more a common everyday life through so far perhaps a minor, symbolic change – that it should not be prohibited; the proposal was that it should be allowed. We feared that there could be a change that could at least lead to Sunday becoming more of a everyday life, and that is something we do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e941	The representative is busy working on a different day of the week. Although the Christian People's Party has justly made an effort in the negotiations with the government, more Sunday work is still available. A question that many people wonder about is how the Christian People's Party is addressing the upcoming opening time promise from the government. It is not possible to have an open shop without adding it, so this is very closely related to what we are discussing today. The Labour Party notes that it is soon three months since the government announced that this proposal would be sent out on the phone shortly, but it was still waiting. Is it such that the Christian People's Party has made an effort here also to stop this, and is it because this proposal has not yet been sent to the ears?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e950	I wish I could answer yes to that, but unfortunately I can't. At least the Christian People's Party has done what we can to both make visible and to fight against the government's announced proposals for Sunday open shops. It is the government itself that has chosen to postpone, and unfortunately we have no secret agreement that this will not happen. But I'm not going to hide on, as I was inside, the fact that we stopped the proposal that one should change the provision that it should no longer be banned, but allowed when the nature of the work makes it necessary. We believe that this is important for at least not to facilitate the notified changes. But I also want to distance myself from the fact that there will be more Sunday work. I do that because today is 13 Sundays you can work in the six months, and that's still going to be 13. So it's going to be possible to work one Sunday more in a row than now. I think that might actually be good, because as someone has shown before, for example. a student who is at home on vacation, working a few more in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e957	The representative Holen Bjørdal has asked for a third line. He'll get it. Then I assume that he is aware that it goes beyond the second line of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e960	I wasn't quite done drilling in the wish of a Christian People's Party about a family-friendly working life, so I suggest a line from SV. A number of hearing authorities in this case have expressed themselves critically about the gender aspect of her and the impact it will have on family life. I assume that the Christian People's Party has read carefully. Among other things, the gender perspective says that the proposals will make the combination full-time work and care responsibilities difficult for many men and women. Similarly, the Labour Inspectorate says that this would be unfavorable for many women and single caregivers. Caregivers depend on a busy everyday life, whether it is for kindergarten or SFO, for leisure activities, or for caring for old parents. When the precautionary measures are reduced, the level of negative stress is increased accordingly. In what way does the representative Ropstad believe that this is in line with the wish that the Christian People's Party has expressed about working as family-friendly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e969	I would like to thank you for a good line and an important theme. What we have been concerned about is that an employee can agree with the employer some other way to organise his work. If you need to pick up the nursery, and you may have to do it two to three days a week – or every day a week – we need to be able to make it right, if possible at work. Then, by means of the changes in the law made here, more access is given to the possibility that an employee can agree directly with the employer and calculate the average working time in another way. We believe that it shifts power to the employee, so that you can actually facilitate that kind of alternative. Or you could say, "Those who need a full day off this week may have to work more other days against getting one day off." Therefore, I would also like to stress that the part that went on for the employer to charge you more working time has now been removed from the government's proposal, and that is precisely in view of this, which has been important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e976	On 24 October 1994 there was a major debate on the Working Environment Act here. The Chief Speaker of the Christian People's Party at the time was Ola T. Lånkke. The values that Ola T. Lånke presented then are largely in line with the values that the Christian People's Party has today. It was then that very many comments and several suggestions, where the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV were together with the background in that view of value. Today we're experiencing a big change, but the view of value, it's said, is the same thing. At the same time, it is said from the representative Ropstad that most of the Norwegian working life is good and serious. We agree with that, but what's important is where evolution goes. Are evolutions away from good and serious, or is it such that it becomes more good and serious work life, as the Christian People's Party sees it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e983	First, I would like to thank you for the comparison with Ola T. Loan, who is an honorary. I appreciated it. I believe that the very central question that is being asked, the question of what direction society is going in, and what we are going to do with the non-serious part of the world of work, is very important. But as I tried to find out in my post: Will this debate help to strengthen the serious part, or will it weaken it and contribute to more weakening? My starting point is that the changes we are making are in order to facilitate the serious part of Norwegian working life. Whoever is unprofessional will be unprofessional, and it will break the law anyway. That's where we have to put the powerful tools. As I experience it, this helps to strengthen the serious working life; it helps to strengthen the rights of employees; and then it is important that a parallel to that strengthens the Labour Inspectorate, strengthens the measures to avoid social dumping and looks at other rules beyond those we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e990	It is probably right to say that the unprofessional try to break the law anyway, but it is not said that they will do it if we have good laws. What is now the most demanding development in the unprofessional world is related to the manning companies. Fortunately, the red-green government was given collective legal rights for trade unions against illegal rental. It is strange that the Christian People's Party, which wants a more serious working life, will not have the necessary means to overcome the main problem of unprofessional and social dumping, namely the manning companies. Can the representative explain the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1000	Firstly, we were against collective law when it was introduced. It says in the program that we want to reverse it, as far as I remember, and we now support it. The background for that is, first of all, that there are heavy legal, fundamental objections to the arrangement that someone can sue on behalf of others. And second, it's also that the union can declare party help, and so on, assist the employee if necessary. Very familiar is it used once more now. Therefore, I do not believe that this is the instrument that will help clean up. As I said, I think you have to be able to help the lonely worker, who I perceive is not tough enough to go to court on your own, in other ways. I would also like to say that one also in the personnel sector has unprofessional actors, and one has serious actors. Our main objective must be to combat the unprofessional actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1007	The representative Roppstad took up several important things in his post, including: social dumping. Collective actions were one of several instruments introduced by the Red-Green Government in the fight against social dumping and in the fight against gross exploitation of workers. The representative Ropstad just expressed his view on collective law, and therefore my question is: Does the Christian People's Party believe that it is more important to protect workers who are exploited against unprofessional employers than to protect workers from unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1015	No, absolutely not. That's why I say that it is entirely possible for the trade unions to declare party assistance if they want it, and it has almost not been used. Very familiar it was used once, and the time it was used it was not given consideration because it was valid in the wrong case. That's why I think this is a debate that makes you lose focus on what's most important. We have a proposal on, for example: to look at the number of subcontractors, because it is known that the challenges of, for example: different public contracts are if there are too many subcontractors to be able to control what is happening down the chain. Another proposal is to demand apprentices, just to unlock the seriousness of the unprofessional actors. As I see it – as I said instead – I believe that removing collective redress is not a problem in terms of social dumping. There are other measures that we must jointly take to combat the small part of working life that unfortunately are not serious enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1024	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1027	It is an important debate we have today on working life. When we look further south in Europe, we see the consequences when society does not manage to organise work in a safe way. It is rocking throughout the democratic stability of society. This is an important debate; it is clear ideological dividing lines. For the Central Party, agility between peoples in the economic and social sphere is very important. Public information, knowledge building, popular governance and the authoritative human being who thinks and takes responsibility are at the bottom. Without it, society will not work well. We must have long-term, predictable and balanced conditions of power in the workplace and in business. Trade organisation is very important, we stimulate it. The Working Environment Act is important; it clarifies the rules of the game and the conditions of power in the world of work. There have been many heated debates in this Chamber over the years, and the Central Party has been attacked for its anchoring of values from the right – from economic liberalism. It's quite natural, because that's not where we stand. I'm proud that the Center Party represents something more than the short-term winnings. In the debate on 24 October 1994 my former colleague Morten Lund said: ‘Is this review of the Working Environment Act good and good enough medicine against the tougher workplace conditions?’ And... ‘ that, for example, the Working Environment Act: becomes a lightweight against free market forces.’;» [[...]] Further: «The party believes that all those in permanent employment should be employed on a permanent basis and that all regular and continuous work should in principle be carried out by permanent staff. [[...]] Temporary employment shall not replace probationary period.» And on the other hand, ‘We in Norway must not find that labour is considered to be an item that can be purchased in the quantity and at the price determined by the market at any time. In the longer term, such attitudes will seriously harm society.’ It was well said what Morten Lund said here, he was predictive. He predicted what would happen as a result of the EEA Agreement and that market forces would give greater freedom. He predicted that a work environment law would cause major problems in relation to the unruly strength of market forces. Social security is important for solid, long-term employers. There are many more solid, long-term employers than we know. The purpose of the activities is something far more than to serve as much as possible. It's amazing what attitudes many Norwegian employers have, and it's incredibly important for employees, regardless of party, to have social security. When one understands that there is also a sea, I notice – when I travel around – that regardless of the party people want security, stability and predictability. The situation of people in the labour market is crucial for the formation of income in society. Labour income is absolutely crucial, and there is a solid and secure link with employment that has made very many people have had a high real income growth in the last 15 years. At the same time, those with a weaker employment relationship have had a much lower real income growth. There are increasing differences in the income of annual works. In addition, when we have a trend in unemployment-free incomes that are so unevenly distributed, this gives a huge difference in income formation over time and also large differences in wealth formation in society. It challenges egalitarian Norway — this is one of our great advantages. In the case of working hours, the Centre Party is on watch for the normal working day and the weekend peace. We are not attached to increasing access to agreeing the average calculation of normal working time; we are not attached to increasing the limits of required or agreed working time. The centre party has agreed on the need to go beyond the normal working day and impose overtime, but today’s rules are good enough and flexible enough, and the central trade unions do an important and good job on these issues. In terms of access to work on Sundays and holidays, we don't want to change that. There is already too much Sunday and holiday work. There is not so much work being done on those days, which is necessary. One can rather tighten than expand this. There's no greater well-being. As far as age limits are concerned, the Central Party supports the government, and in the case of security, we are opposed to the government's proposal. The emergency watch system is a good system that enables the employer to get good help with cheap money. If one weakens that system, there will be fewer people interested in security, and that option is far worse than today’s system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1072	It is no surprise that the representative Lundtigen is also in the EEA. As I see it, Norwegian working life is part of a European working life. It is also true that many Nordics have benefited from studying abroad, and people coming from Europe have benefited from the Norwegian labour market. What I want to ask is: How does Lundtägen imagine Norway and cooperation in Europe without an EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1079	I'll answer the question, sail if the question is most related to the next case. The centre party is said to have a free labour market in the Nordic region. That's because it's worked very well. There's a very similar relationship in the Nordic region, and it's easy to make it work. We also want Norway to be part of a larger European labour force. However, unlike the EEA members, we want to regulate the availability of labour from those countries that have a completely different situation in terms of unemployment and in terms of income from work. What is the Central Party's alternative is a regulated labour immigration from the EU area outside the Nordic region, so that we can ensure that what is the quality of Norwegian employment can work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1088	Did I then understand the representative so that the Nordic labour market is clearly distinguished from the European labour market, so that it becomes an A layer and a B layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1093	That's absolutely correct. The Nordic labour market is a labour market which has evolved over time, where it has proved very beneficial to have free movement of labour. We see how it works for the many in the Nordic countries who are exposed to unemployment and who come to us. It works positively on Norwegian working life in all ways. They do not contribute to the pressure on pay and working conditions, because they are accustomed to rights from their country of origin. They are authoritative people who are used to saying from far more than that of people who are subjected to oppression to far more severe extent, powers to do in their practical function.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1098	I look at the Center Party as a party that is engaged in local democracy, business in the districts, and perhaps especially travel, production and export businesses. They are largely established in the districts. An important contribution to strengthening these jobs is more flexibility, more overtime and also the use of temporary employment. I wonder if the Central Party really does not see that it ensures business and more jobs in the whole country by providing companies and employees with more flexibility to adapt to economic conditions and varying market situations. How is it possible that such a fantastic flexibility can be turned into something negative?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1103	The centre party has great respect for local democracy, but it is within a national law and legislation. There must always be a combination of national rules and local adaptation. In the field of working life, it is quite obvious that we need clear national legislation. The flexibility that today's Working Environment Act provides works well. There are no particular problems in the practical working life in that area. Not many people say this is something you, Lundtegen, have to fix. There are many, many more important tasks to address. What most people say to me is that it's now developing a culture in parts of the world of work, linked to a crew company, which gives so much insecurity, makes it so difficult to claim its interests, so difficult to ensure that one gets the salary and the benefits that are, that it's there, Lundtegen, you have to put in your workforce. And so do I, on behalf of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1110	It's good to hear that the Center Party is occupied with local democracy. Then I also think a little about the right of self-determination and the individual right of self-determination. Why does the Central Party want to give the trade unions the opportunity to bring an action on behalf of a worker who does not want to bring an action? Does this not conflict with the local democracy thinking of the Center Party and the belief in the individual's free will and fundamental principles of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1116	No, it's completely in line with our legal principles. The people concerned have such a weak position in the labour market that it is very demanding for them to assert their rights to the employers concerned. It requires that we have to have power at a higher level, so that society can ensure that these people are cared for. This sets a standard for the organization of working life, so that those within the labour market who want to make a living know that they meet a counter-power that is so strong that it is turned down and stopped. And it's important to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1121	First, I have to say that it is a pleasure that the representative Lundtigen is in favour of the open borders in the Nordic region, and that he has come up with better thoughts since his party fights against this when it was introduced. But my question is about flexible working hours. I understand that the Center Party is a party that has a special anchoring in it and I want to understand the challenges of our primary industries. Then we talk about a part of Norwegian business that definitely understands that sometimes there is a desire and need to work a lot for periods to then work less in others. My question is whether the Senterpartiet and Lundtigen do not understand that this is a need that also applies in other industries, for example in an important district industry such as the tourism industry, where it is a fact that one is seasonal. Sometimes a job needs to be done a lot, and then one can take more time off later. Why won't the Center Party allow an example in the high season to work more than two Sundays in a row in such an important district industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1128	As a representative of a professional group who has worked a lot – long days and late beyond evening, early in the morning and many Sundays – I can tell you that it is not always a person who wants to do it, but there is something you have to do. Those who are seafaring traders are allowed to do so, for they are their own master. But it has not been said that the freedom to work in that way is an advantage for these people, whether they are seafaring entrepreneurs or others. Those who have learned what it means to work many Sundays, far beyond the evening and early in the morning – working so hard that one does not hear the bird singing – have learned that it is not only enjoyable about it, it is also a great burden. That's why I, as a representative of that profession, may have more respect for dampening that kind of work, because I've experienced the negative aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1133	I want to thank you for your answer. I'm in and out of agreement – it's not always a wish or a pleasure to work a lot for periods. Therefore, one should not be imposed on it either. But in the unity that is presented to the Storting today, a local consensus suggests that this is something that is desirable, this is something that will. Then I have a bigger problem seeing why the Center Party, as I see it as a party occupied by important district industries, which is business-friendly, does not see the great desire and the great need of local trust leaders and workers, from local businesses and business organisations, which says that we would like to be able to work more in periods to work less in others, so that we can create values, so that we can take away from the work stops that come, and then take time off for other periods. I didn't think the representative Lundteg gave a satisfactory answer to why the Center Party doesn't want that flexibility, but he's going to have another chance to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1138	It is quite right that the Center Party is a business-friendly party – yes, we are so nutritious that we are concerned about a development where the country does not create as much as a consumer. We're so nutritious that it's very central to us. When we now talk about working hours, the Central Party says that working hours can be agreed with the local trade union and with the central trade union, which is different from the normal working day. It is a principle that we are monitoring. What we're now discussing is how much more than the normal working time that can be determined at the different levels. Based on life experience, I know that local trade unions are not always as strong as they are against the watch situation, and therefore it is an advantage to have the valve in the central trade unions. But for the Left, this is not so central, because they have left the connection to central trade organization, which was once a slogan for the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1150	For well over ten years, the representatives of the Left have stood on this platform and asked for a more modern and more flexible working environment law to adapt the time we live in. I'm glad to say that today we have multiples. Many have been said and written about temporary additions. This is what I will come back to in my next article, as I will also address the obligation of activity and the other suggestions in Prop. 39 L. In this case, in the view of the Left, it is very much to be missed. It is particularly important that we ensure greater flexibility in terms of working time. Moderate blurring in the average billing code makes it possible to agree to work more in periods to take more time off in others. This is a great advantage for many workers, for example those who commute far to their workplaces and for parents with shared care for children. There is an advantage for many users of care services that can reduce the number of people to stay on during a weekend shift. And it is an advantage for many businesses – especially those who are engaged in cyclical and seasonal industries, such as the tourism industry. There are two ongoing moves on the changes Size accepts today. The first is that no annual framework for working time, overtime or weekend work is being extended. In other words, it is a mistake for someone to work more closely after the changes that are made here. The second continuous feature is that the opportunities to work more during periods to work less in other places constitute local unity between employees and employers. We strengthen this role for the local trustees, and no one will be able to be charged with anything other than the normal working time according to the Work Environment Act. The left initially agreed with the government that one could extend the ratio to the average of Sunday and holiday work something more than the Stortinget agreed today. We are also sceptical about the proposal to increase the penalties for breaches of labour law, but in negotiations it is important to seek good compromises that can bring together wide-ranging pluralities. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party for constructive and good negotiations, all of which are now involved in ensuring a broadest possible number of people around reasonable modernisations of the work environment law. Furthermore, the left is pleased that we are now strengthening the employment protection of older workers. Everyone has something to contribute. Older workers are a very important resource for working life. It is only fair and reasonable that the protection against dismissal is strengthened in line with increasing life expectancy and better health. Not least in the light of the pension reform, which was agreed in this Chamber. That's a shame we can't get a consensual decision about the natural follow-up of it. So it is disappointing and strange that the Labour Party and SV will still give companies the opportunity to send workers on their doorsteps, even though they still have a lot to do and want to work. ‘All shall bring’ clearly with an age limit of 67 years. The left is pleased that the majority of the population subscribe to our desire that an adjustment to the age limits in the country should also be followed when we are now amending the work environment law. We are looking forward to the government bringing a case about this to Stortinget. In general, the Left wants as many obligations as possible and rights between different sectors of the labour market. We are pleased that this vision has gained a broad impact in the comments in these two cases. Finally, I will be allowed to point to the strengthening of the alarm protection system, which the majority of people today are asking the government to implement. Standing up to their own employers and their own colleagues to warn about the illegitimate and illegitimate conditions at work is a heavy burden. More brave people have taken this heavy burden, but it has strengthened us as a society. Today, we ask the Labour Inspectorate to take a stronger and more active role in supporting and assisting alerts, and we ask that good alert procedures in the enterprises should be a mandatory requirement with minimum requirements for the content of the alert procedures. All in all, Left believes that this matter, together with the matters we will deal with later, will contribute to a more modern, flexible and safe working life for individual workers. Norway is facing major challenges in the future. If we are to be able to ensure that everyone gets to participate in the world of work as they wish, with their skills and knowledge, we need a code that facilitates it. We're getting a solid step closer to that goal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1181	The representative Rotevatn mentioned the important opportunity people have to address unfortunate issues in the workplace. One such instrument that we have had and that we have until the decision is taken today is the collective court of appeal. It is precisely an opportunity, on behalf of those who do not dare or have the opportunity, to address unfair social conditions, whether in the working environment, occupational safety or pay and employment. In the comments of the majority parties, it is used to mean that it is contrary to human rights that we have collective legal remedies. Then my question becomes: why is it a problem for human rights that you can reveal and take over payments, but not a problem for human rights that people are being underpaid and poorly treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1188	The problem with the question to the representative Andersen is enough, as we have said before, that the question has been asked incorrectly. It is never a problem to deal with serious and illegal situations in a workplace. But I thought it was surprising that a description as an important possibility of a system that was put in place against large protests and that has never been useful in a successful way in the judicial system – never. The principle of this is that a union should be able to sue on behalf of someone who is not a member of the unit, who does not want to be a member of the unit, and who does not want a member to go into business. That's why the Association of Lawyers and others were so critical when this was introduced, because it is against the traditional thinking around our civil process, and that's why they also support the fact that the majority in the Stortinget now removes it from the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1193	I do not know anything about the experience of the representative Rotevatn in working life, but it is actually that in some cases it enters temporary jobs or via subcontractors and is in a very weak position with regard to the position you have with the employer, but depends on the crowns you can get out of it. This means that it may be difficult for the person to raise a case against the employer. It is then possible for a national organisation to bring legal proceedings in order to protect the interests of that person. Of course, it will never be used against that person's interests. But my question was, why is it a problem for human rights that someone can raise a case on behalf of people who are unfairly treated, but not a problem for human rights that people are being treated unfairly? That it is revealed that people are being treated unfairly is – as far as I understand – the problem of the Left, and I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1201	But then Andersen's representative has not understood the Left's approach to this. What makes one of the comments, as many others have done in their hearing, question the human rights side of it, is the freedom of organisation, the right to be a member of an organisation and the right not to be a member of an organisation. Then a person can think of many reasons why a person doesn't want to raise a case, for example. that one does not want the tax it is to be in a court of law and witness. There is likely to be a charge if a case is brought against their will. That is why so many have been critical of this. So I would say that when this possibility, introduced against strong protests, has never been useful, a question can be asked as to how important it really is, or whether there is only symbolism policy for the Labour Party. On the other hand, I would say that it is positive that the Labour Party announces a positive attitude to something we do in this setting, despite the fact that they are against most, for example that they will at least be open to the strengthening of the alert protection that we now establish and adopt. It is an important step in securing individual workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1210	Now it's not really my role to answer, but it's true that we're positive to it. We're positive to increased punishment as well. We're positive for what makes sense. But what we are against, in a situation where labour market challenges are unprofessional actors and social dumping, is that the majority of parties take away one of the instruments we have against social dumping. The fact that the rule is there is in itself a means of cleaning up the workplace. That's how the work life works, even though not all things come to justice. That's why I'm concerned that I'm disappointed that the Left here actually contributes to the removal of one of the instruments we have against social dumping in the proposal that has been put forward at a time when social dumping is one of the major societal problems. That's why I'm wondering why it's a human rights problem that jux gets revealed, but not a human rights problem that jux goes through.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1215	Now the question has been asked for the third time. I would recommend that the representative Andersen find a copy of the European Convention on Human Rights and read out questions of freedom of organisation, which is an important both positive and negative right. It's not that the system that was introduced against big protests is a violation of it, but several heavy hearing agencies have raised that question, so it's also mentioned in the setting. The reason why one takes it away is that it's not being used, and the second is that it's a problem – and I think it's surprising that the Labour Party doesn't see it – that one should be able to go to court on behalf of someone who's not a member of your unit, who doesn't want to be a member of your unit, and who's against going to court. This is about the fundamental principles of our civil process. And then I'm going to say that if the Labour Party really wanted to tackle the issue of social dumping, they had a good chance to do it earlier, in this Chamber, when the Left proposes to introduce a minimum wage to address just the highly critical low-payment ratio, which is legal, and which the Labour Party believes is legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1222	I almost have to be allowed to comment on it. Although minimum pay is not a topic today, it is a central theme in Norwegian working life, and it is probably an example that a liberalist person can come up with many proposals that harm serious working life. There is a broad consensus that, as an alternative to the free formation of wages and salaries in Norway, which has given us a good pay level will affect the role of the parties in the formation of wages and salaries in Norway – it is an important principle issue – but above all, all experience in Europe is that when a person introduces a minimum wage, it is not something that gets the level of wages and salaries up; it is something that helps the level of wages and salaries down. So it's going to be a further spiral and it's going to pay worse for those who've paid the worst. That is why I am pleased that the Storting rejected the Left's proposal on minimum wages. It was a liberalist proposal, which fortunately was rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1227	I always thought it's a little fascinating when people use 'liberal' as a kind of shell word. Making sure people have individual rights, also to get a decent salary, I think I'm a bit positive. I thought it was surprising that the bulk of the population – with the Workers' Party at the head, must be able to say well – would not even investigate what possibilities exist, what knowledge we can gather. They had decided in advance. But then I also record that the Labour Party and the Left have two different approaches to these questions. That's why the Left agrees with the plurality and the Labour Party with the minority. We emphasize that we live different lives and that we have different desires and needs. Some people think that things should be the way they always were, or maybe whatever they once were, it's not a progressive approach to working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1234	As far as I know, all the parties in this room are followers of freedom of organization, and then there are some parties that want to facilitate professional organization, the centre party is among them. It's important, and we're proud of that. The new left goes away from that position, but we just have to admit that. What we are discussing in the context of collective law for trade unions in the illegal hiring of people in the context of recruitment companies is that this contributes to an unsafe development of the labour market – not only in the manning companies, but also to an increasing number of enterprises and businesses. My first question is: is this development related to a crew company considered as a problem in the Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1241	The Left Party is and always has our positive to people organizing themselves. This is why the Left was behind and prepared for the main agreement – the foundation of the labour market. But we are also concerned that half of the work force is not trade-organized. This means that we also need to have a work environment law that facilitates them. Therefore, we are now increasing – moderately – the ability to agree to increase the average calculation between the individual employee and the individual employer. It is a great benefit for the individual worker. When it comes to the issue of collective redress, I believe that I have answered it quite carefully in response to my representative Andersen, but I would also say that for the Zenter Party, with its traditions as a party that sees the individual citizen, it is a new collective and corporate view that one should be able to go to trial on behalf of someone who is not a member of the union, who does not want to become a member of the union, and who does not want one to go to court. It amazes me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1248	I am fascinated by the fact that both the Christian People's Party and the Left seem so happy today that there is more flexibility and what one calls "self-determination" in working life. I like the word «participation» much better. Rotevatn says that no one should work anymore and that the proposals strengthen the role of local trustees. Is the Left now confident that the individual workplace in the districts, in travel life and otherwise is strong enough to strengthen the flexibility of the individual employee and not just the flexibility of the individual employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1255	The answer is yes. And if that's not the case today, there's at least room for it to be that way, by giving a person so much more flexibility if a person organizes himself, and if one has local trust. To the extent that this proposal has received criticism from someone, there is now a partial increase in the difference between those who have a collective agreement and those who do not. It's true that the Left today is happy with the decisions that are now being made, and that's because we've been working for this for very, very many years. For eight years we received in response from SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party that everything should be as it always has been, we see no need for any additional flexibility. Well – today, the left-hand side of a work environment law that is quite up to our primary position, quite close to what we have been choosing. There's of course reason to enjoy it. And then you could ask yourself what we would have been through to go to SV, to the Workers' Party, to the Center Party. The answer is: Absolutely nothing. But while some stand still, others have to take responsibility for taking Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1267	I want to start by lifting the SV's proposal. The Working Environment Act is one of the laws that work most in our everyday lives. It determines how long the working day will be, and under what conditions and within what framework we will work. The government paints an image of – as we see in the debate here – that the labour market has changed so much that the labour law also needs to be amended. It is constantly repeated that we are working in completely different ways than before, and that modern societies must have modern solutions. I'm sure there's a lot of things that have changed in recent years. In particular, we have received more technical solutions that look completely different today than both 10, 20 and 30 years ago. However, even if the shopkeepers no longer charge the price of goods manually, they are still stacked in the shelves of both back, arms and shoulders. Although there are machines that house the floor, most floors are cleaned by people with mops. And even though kindergarten employees may have access to iPad, kids are still being lifted up and down for comfort and care — often in rooms with quite high sound levels — of their backs and shoulders to their employees. These are examples of important tasks that are being done in modern societies – and crucial tasks that need to be solved in order for a modern society to move around. However, there are also examples of work that can negatively affect both body and health — if workers do not have sufficient legal protection. It is this protection that we feel that the government is weakening by the changes in the Working Environment Act that are on the table today. If it is that longer working days and more weekend jobs are what is modern, yes, then I am proud to belong to an old-fashioned party. The government completely disregards the conditions of power in society and the conditions of power in the labour market. The freedom to work at any time is very quick to expect to have to work at any time. When the government says we're going to have a more flexible working life, we have to ask ourselves: Who – who is it that loses power, and who is the one that gets more opportunity to decide? Is it the single mother who doesn't reach the kindergarten before the closing hours because the boss expects her to stay longer at work? No, she's not the one who'll get more flexibility. Such a working life as a majority now adds is difficult to combine with a real life, because expectations of longer working days and more weekend work are a threat to equality. I fear that will both weaken equality and increase the differences in society. I also want to clarify the importance of limiting Sunday work. For many, Sundays are not necessarily more sacred than other days, but having some common holidays together has a great value in itself. Of course, some have to work on Sundays, but it should be limited in number of weekends and number of weekends in a row and also limited to work that is absolutely necessary. Although the issue of Sunday-open shops is not to be dealt with here today, I would like to remind you that someone's freedom becomes the freedom of others. It really isn't about life and death to buy shoes and makeup on Sundays. People who work in stores also need free time for their kids. There are several things we react to. I'm not going to go into everyone here, but we're responding to the fact that when it comes to approving working time arrangements, the government – with the supporting parties – has taken into account the power conditions that exist in society. We react to the proposal to weaken the compensation of the security guard, and we react to the proposal for a change in age limit, without the parties participating in that process. We believe that it shows an illusion about a working life rather than a real strategy for people to be able to work for a long time. SV will vote against all the weaknesses that workers will experience through the changes in the Working Environment Act. We want a completely different direction of work, a work life that you can stand in until you get old, and you can go out of it as a pensioner with your health, instead of working sick. We want regular jobs, full jobs. We want to go in a completely different direction than what we see drawn up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1291	The President understood it so that proposals were made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1294	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1299	It's nodding. Kirsti Bergstø has then taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1306	When you read what the Socialist Left Party writes in the comments on age limits, yes, you realize that those comments are written by a socialist. There, the labour market is seen as a static size that is never developed and some groups are pushing each other out of the labour market. I am curious if the representative Bergstø sees how uncomfortable that argument can be if you take it further – the elderly take our jobs. I'm not going to embroil. The drawing is drawn. In this regard, I would like to ask myself carefully: if a person is competent and does a good job, does the representative Bergstø think it is worth being laid off because you have reached an age?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1313	SV believes it is important that people have protection in a working life. We also believe that it is important that we have rules of play that make us worthy of departure from the labour market, that we can leave the labour market both with health and with dignity. That is why it is very positive to be able to work longer today if the employee and the employer agree on this, and there are also many good examples of this. We believe that getting people to work longer – that work starts somewhere else than starting to relax at the age limits that are in the world of work. Then I wonder if the representative has actually read SV's comments, because there we do not refer to anyone pushing others out. On the contrary, we insist that it is such that employers can work hard to hire good adult people if that change is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1320	We have seen enough examples in the media that under today's legislation there has been enough unworthy departures, just as the representative Bergstø is concerned about. The problem is that she doesn't want to do anything about it. But she will also not do anything about the involuntary part-time, she will not implement measures that can reduce involuntary part-time. We know that where people get more control over their own working hours, more over their own tour, it often happens that more people get increased job breaks, yes, in some places the involuntary part-time is removed. The shift/turnout committee said that measures that did not directly address the so-called weekend problem could only solve the part-time problem to a limited extent. What measures will Bergstø take to address this? Will she get nurses to work more frequent weekend shifts, as former Minister of Health Støre suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1327	The red-green government and the SV have taken the fight against involuntary part-time seriously, and therefore we have had our own strategies in health companies, among others. For that. We are quite clear that permanent and full-time jobs must be the rule of the labour market, and that is where we want to strengthen the rights of people. But here a picture is drawn that if you want to work full-time, yes, then a job has to be done in ways that can go well. That is the description of reality we do not agree with, saying that central trade unions should not be allowed to approve tour arrangements, saying that one should stand alone locally and negotiate with the manager what your working time should be in order for one to be worthy of a full position. That's the description of reality and the solutions we can never agree to, because we see that workers need strong protection. The power conditions in society and in the workplace are not at all equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1332	That was an interesting point to hear – at least that the Socialist Left Party is clear that they are against any kind of weakening of the protection of the workers. With respect to reporting: in the matters we are dealing with today, there is no weakening of the protection of employees. On the contrary, the proposal on age limits is about strengthening the protection of workers. That's right. That's right. I must also say that I strongly believe that the Socialist Left now believes that equality in Norway will be weakened by women gaining more power. This is a position in which the Progress Party totally disagrees. We believe, on the contrary, that equality is strengthened by women gaining more power and authority to determine their own lives. But the representative Bergstø also claimed that now people have to work more, and then I have a clear question for Bergstø: Do people – with the change today – have to work more than you do today in a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1341	The reality is obviously both red and blue in this room. It is true that equality has progressed in the country just because it has not been the Progress Party that has defined what is freedom for women, but the women's movement and labour movement to a greater extent than the Progress Party. When I point out that people have to work more, it's precisely based on the crooked conditions of power that exist in the individual workplace and in the workplace. When it is proposed to negotiate more locally, to be able to stand up and negotiate with their boss about how the working day should be – that it is the flexibility it adds up to – yes, I fear that more people will have to take longer working days, even when it does not fit into their lives in any way. That is why SV wants strong trade unions, and that is why we want a strong protection law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1348	I did not initially get an answer to my question from the Socialist Left Party. The representative claimed that today’s change will mean that people have to work more in a year – against their will. Then I ask the representative to refer to what proposals we have to deal with today, which means that people have to work more – against their will?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1353	I understand that it doesn't necessarily look like this from the Wiborg desk, but every day to a lot of people, the changes – what you call decoration, flexibility – will have such an effect. For many industries, I'm just afraid that you'll experience having to work longer days, even if it doesn't fit you yourself, because it's suggested that you agree with your boss about your working day and working time. I fear such a development, among other things. health and care, where the pressure on privatisation is high. I fear it in the grocery trade, where too few are organized and there is a long way between the tariff agreements, and I fear it, among other things. in the cleaning industry, where very many people experience a day-to-day life based on high work rates, pressures and competitive outsourcing. When it comes to creating a working life where you can negotiate with your boss the length of your working day, within a limit, and you also open up to temporaryity, and you open up the door to less protection from trade unions and the Working Environment Act, then negatively strengthens the conditions of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1359	I would like to commend them for being – and for a long time have been – busy reducing involuntary part-time. It's a goal for the working life that the left is completely united in. It's a big problem that you get walking around with too many in small settings, in the vicaria, to get the crew to go up, not least on weekends. Therefore, I am surprised that SV will not now be involved in doing perhaps the most important thing to give more opportunities to work all the time, i.e. to give more flexibility around working time and more local self-destination. When we do important grips around this, we say, among other things. KS, representing the municipal sector, our main welfare producers, will make it possible for one to have more people in a full position, not least in the care and care sectors. What is the SV that the country's municipalities have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1368	I'm very pleased with Left's commitment to full-time jobs. We're dividing that. We still believe that there are better ways to do it. We also see that where you really want to, it's also possible to do it. I would like to give an example, a happy local example, namely Gamvik municipality, where SV rapporteur Inga Manndal sits at the rudder – together with the Workers' Party. There you have worked very systematically and concretely to give everyone who wants it full jobs in the municipality. They have worked systematically with the trade unions locally and found good solutions, which means that in the municipality of Gamvik no one currently has an involuntary part-time job. This means that the opportunities are there, if you use the most important resource and power available, namely the trade unions locally and the trustees, the employees and a little flexibility and goodwill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1373	But then I wonder why SV does not trust these trade unions locally, where one is able to get good solutions, for everything that is done in the working environment law we adopt today, maintains local unity. If a sheep for local solutions that everyone is in, that no one has a problem with, yes, that the Labour Inspectorate thought is quite ok when it comes to health, environment and safety, why do EN mean that someone else should be able to sit centrally and say no, they are not allowed to. What makes one not able to trust that the wit is actually fairly well and evenly distributed around the country – that perhaps it is sometimes such that as they are closest to the problems, they are also the closest solutions? Then they should be able to find these solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1380	The local solutions can be found today, and you can see that through today's system, where 90 pst. all applications for rotation and alternative working time arrangements are accepted. It varies a little bit from industry to industry. But we are taking seriously the research that is quite clear that night work, longer working days and evening have a perfectly obvious price for the individual's health, for safety and for opportunities to make mistakes. That is why we believe that there must be protection and clear rules there too. Then there is a big difference between trying to find local solutions within some framework and opening up to tournaments that can go on life and health loose, without having sufficient security around it. And that's where we believe that the competence of the trade unions is central, in terms of both tariffs, health and research, is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1390	It is a joyous day when we decide today in this room to have a safe, flexible and family-friendly Norwegian labour code. The working life has changed over time. The family situation has changed. People's everyday life and working life and regions change. It is then important to make policies, to create legislation where exceptions do not become a permanent derogation, but that what is the actual situation becomes the main rule in Norwegian working life. What we are deciding today is no longer imposed on overtime, no longer imposed on Sunday work, no longer imposed on total working time. What we're making decisions about today is that it's going to be easier to be serious, harder to be a basement. And there will be better job protection for older people in the workplace. I think that's a good thing, I think that's important and correct. If we take a brief look back, we see that the age regulations that are now in the Working Environment Act came into force in 1917 – no change of 98 years. I think society has changed relatively much in the last 98 years. People get older, have better health, more want to stay longer in work. Why do we have to have a provision in the Working Environment Act that says that one has to go off just because one has had a birthday? I think it's a little forward-looking, it's a little modern. That is why I am pleased that we now have good rules that are also adapted to that everyday life. I would like to extend my special thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left who have been there and made it possible for us to have a modernisation, a better work environment law, that better takes care of people's everyday lives. It makes it easier for most people. People are going out to work – and I've been talking to many of them both up through the years I spent on the Storting and in the almost two years I've been the Council of State. I've visited a lot of jobs, different jobs, different people, and I record that the workplace of people is not necessarily right outside the living room door where they live. People want to live one place with their family, and then maybe you're working somewhere else. I have experienced that many have gone away to me and said: Why do we have to have exceptional provisions and walk the long, winding road so that I can go to work Monday morning, work a little longer on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, then go home Friday after lunch and have dinner with my family and actually have the whole weekend off? Why can't we decide it locally at the local workplace? I fully agree with those who have gone away and said this to me. For this reason, the government, together with the majority in Stortinget – Right, Advance Party, Christian People’s Party and Left – meets the wishes of people. We move more power to the individual worker and the individual business locally. So you say in this room that there's a shift in the balance of power, there's more power for the employer, and there's going to be a distorted relationship of power. If you think that there is a distortion in the labour market, that there is a turbulence in power to say that individual workers should have greater freedom, greater opportunity to influence their own working life – if you disagree with this and feel that there is a wrong direction to go – then I disagree with all those who claim this. I take people seriously, I take people's everyday lives seriously, and I trust that people themselves are best able to control their own everyday lives. And I have faith in the local trustees out there who are incredibly good at both understanding the needs of the company and taking into account the employees to secure jobs, making the job more competitive and facilitating the creation of new and better jobs in the future. I want that flexibility. It was said in a previous post here – it was probably the representative of the Trettebergstuen who said it – that the Workers' Party is too flexible for those who want it, and for better protection for those who need it. I fully agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen. That is why, within today's safe rules, the Working Environment Act provides for more flexibility in which individuals themselves can agree. Then I will give homage and praise to the Christian People's Party and the Left to make sure that it is also easier to warn about unprofessional relationships. You give better protection to those who need it. The opposition is too rhetorical, but is opposed to the political grips to make sure that we get in the situation that we get better protection for those who need it, and more flexibility, freedom and opportunities for those who need it. I want a work life that is safe and serious. That is why we also take care of the safe protection provisions of the Working Environment Act. Let me also correct a manifest misunderstanding. In this hall it is said that now there is more Sunday work. No, it's allowed to work 13 Sundays in a year. With the decision taken today, it will still be allowed to work 13 Sundays in a year. It will not be possible to oblige an employee to work more Sundays than what he is working today. Nor will there be any changes to the terms of when you can work on Sunday. Today's law says that Sunday work is not allowed unless the nature of the work makes it necessary. The new law states that Sunday work is not permitted unless the nature of the work makes it necessary – exactly the same as the main provision. The only difference is that the chef who comes home to the mountain village, at the mountain hotel, can work three days in the Easter – three red days in the Easter, both on Thursday, on Friday and on Easter Day. He can agree himself, that freedom I want to give to the cook who comes home to the mountain village to Easter. And a student can make three Sundays at work in order to take more time off when he reads to the exam. I mean, it's a good thing. It's good to take people seriously. It's good to give more freedom to the individual. Then I feel that some people are also against it with tour – that you can now agree to better tour arrangements locally, in the healthcare sector, in the care sector, where 70 pst. part-time workers in the municipal care sector. We know that according to both the AFI report and the municipalities that have tried alternative tours, more people get bigger jobs, more people get into full-time jobs, sick leave has gone down, there is more freedom to plan their leisure time and get the cabal home to go up, while at the same time feeling that you have less conscience towards the individual resident in the hospital home, the patient in the hospital, because you have time to follow up better, give better care, better care, it gets more warm hands, more worthwhile older care. I'm glad. At the same time, employees work fewer weekends. It is a good thing that the individual should have the freedom and the opportunity to do so. Fauske municipality, which is the President's own municipality of residence, is a good example in this respect. There was 55 in one experiment. The test is completed, but the scheme is continued. 30 of the 55 came up in larger positions. But it's voluntary. The same can be seen at the Hospital in Vestfold – voluntary agreement between the individual employee and the department, both in the maternity ward and in the surgical department. When I meet people, I think you have to take them seriously, make rules that are modern, and adapt to their working life. They know their lives very well. I'm not going to be a bother to them, I'm going to give them the opportunity to be more head of their own lives. With that, I feel that some people are protesting and calling it brother-in-law's research. This room can feel confident that I will also talk to people in the future, talk to workers, different industries, different jobs and take them seriously. That's what I call good ombudsman policy. A politician must be a good ombudsman. That's what I want to keep on being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1416	The Council of State described here that workers will now have the opportunity to choose for themselves – how to work on Tuesdays and on weekends and to adapt as much as they like. It could have been tempting to ask if the employers no longer have anything they should have said. But that's not what my question is. This flexibility and these alternative rotational arrangements described by the Council of State are, of course, schemes – and flexibility – under which people work today, under the law of the day. Nine out of ten applications are accepted. Only the trade union alone approves nearly 200 applications every year. Governments will, however, change this system, towards an overall employee side. All trade unions are opposed to changing the scheme. The elected representatives locally, which of course constitute the members of the trade unions, do not want the trust that the Council of State says he should give them. They even went on a general strike against this increased flexibility and the confidence of the Council of State claims that this is the case. Doesn't the Council of State have the impression that all the trade unions and local trustees are against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1425	What makes the impression on the government council is when he meets people, talks to people and sees what their everyday lives are like. Yes, it is true that many alternative tournaments are also approved by the central trade unions, with a one-year duration, but in terms of something that works, and something that you want locally, I cannot in my wildest imagination understand why it must always be determined every year, with new applications submitted to the central federations. Why can't it be agreed locally through voluntary schemes? Why can't the individual manager and individual employees be allowed to participate on a voluntary basis and influence their working day locally, where you work and live? I think it's important and correct, and that's why we've taken these steps. The people who come to me, who want more power shifting locally, have made an impression on me. That is why we have included it in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1430	So that's what people have today, and basically this is what they're going to do. And the employees themselves are against changing the plan. The Council of State has not decided to extend the period of approval from one to two years. We could discuss that, but that's not what you're proposing today. You move power and make it harder to say no. On top of something else: not only are the employee organisations opposed to the changes that the government is presenting today, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, the Labour Inspectorate, the Equality Ombudsman, etc. are opposed to the changes, because, as they say, there will have to be a risk increase for work-related injuries, accidents and diseases, and because the proposals hamper the effort to reduce accidents and the response to social dumping and labour crime. What causes the Council of State to choose to ignore the resistance and professional warnings, and to make changes that no one wants and against which the trade unions warn?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1437	First of all, I'm taking the colleges very seriously, and I've read their reports very carefully. So I think it's important that you have the ability to distinguish between snares and bars, considering what's in these reports. There is nothing in those reports that says that an average calculation from ten hours to twelve and a half hours will lead to dramatic changes in health risk. But what you say is that long shifts and little rest – when you go straight on the evening watch and over on the night watch, and do not have good enough rest arrangements in advance and afterwards – over a long time leads to health risks. I fully agree with that. That is why, through the changes we are proposing, we have made it possible to maintain the safe safeguards for the health, environment and safety of individual employees. The fact that a person is free on Thursday [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1445	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1448	This is precisely the point, because the same authorities point out that making it more difficult to say no to that type of long watch can lead to an increase in accident risk, when involuntary. But I see and feel that the Council of State is once again trying to undermine not only the employee side, but also its own supervision and professional bodies. I think that's sad. The Council of State has previously signed a zero visa for accidents at work, and he has said that he should "smoker out the criminals" and work against crime at work. Nevertheless, the Council of State is concerned that the Labour Inspectorate, Kripos and STAMI warn against making the work against accidents, social dumping and crime at work more difficult with the changes adopted today by the majority. What is it that the Council of State has understood, which has not understood Kripos and the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1455	Firstly, we have taken the signals that came, and we have also included recordings that came in the consultation round, from among others. The Labour Inspectorate in their consultation notes. What they criticized at the time, which they thought could be a health risk, was guards up to 93 hours. That's why we say in the proposition adopted today – and I expect that the representative of the Trettebergstuen has noticed – that you can't have more weekly working hours where you combine overtime and that with averaging, than 69 hours a week, i.e. today's rule. You can't work more than 54 hours on average over a week, just like today's rule. You open up more flexibility within the secure framework, and you've listened to it. Yes, it is becoming more difficult to be a basement when we have both presented an action plan against crime at work and significantly tightened the penalties in relation to the red-green government, with up to three years in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1460	Councillor Robert Eriksson is not like other FrPs. He has a different life experience, and he well describes it in many ways based on the background of experience. I therefore choose to believe that when the Council of State says that he wants a safe and serious working life, he believes so. I also expect the Council of State to experience what is happening in the labour market in the case of crew companies, i.e. companies that have no own activity, they hire people, and they hire people, and that the Council of State is aware that this is a development that gives a more unsafe working life for those who are involved, among other things. because of the introduction of a form of employment known as fixed-term unremunerated employment. My question is: is the development of crew companies a problem for the Council of State's view of a safe and serious working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1469	I would like to thank the representative of Lundtigen for his question. It's a complicated and difficult question, but I'll try to answer it well. Firstly, the manning industry is around 1-2 pst. of employment. Having a serious and good manpower business is both important and right in a working life, both to have enough labour and to have access to the right labour force. So it's not that fixed employment without pay between assignments is a new form of employment. It also applied under the previous regime. There are many limitations there, and as I've said, I've had a meeting with the social partners, and I still want to have a dialogue with the social partners about this to see if we have a right delimitation or not. But when it comes to whether it is contrary to the law or not, I believe that in that case it must be tried in court. It's the courts that are right to decide that, in order to find out what's legal in it. I record that no one has yet tried to bring it to justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1476	There are several people who have taken the case to court, but it has meant a settlement, where the employer has given the employee full rights, and thus one has not received a court order that has settled it. But it's a fact that we have employment forms that are called fixed-term employment without pay between assignments, i.e. one has a salary one day, one has no pay another day, and then one has a pay one third day. This is a clear breach of the understanding that most people have about what rights and obligations they have on permanent employment. What the government is doing is taking away the collective right of action for trade unions at illegal rent, i.e. what is an instrument until today, but which is now being rejected, to try to fix some of this. The Christian People’s Party has said that they want better instruments. What does the Council of State want? Does the Council of State want to replace it with anything else, or will he just let it go on?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1483	Firstly, I believe it is both important and right to allow the Labour Inspectorate – and we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate during the two years we have been in government – to have a greater opportunity to go in and monitor the proper and proper enforcement of the provisions of the Work Environment Act. Collective rights of appeal have been used only once. The case was rejected, as it was also used for the wrong case. This is nothing new that has come in the last few months. I agree with that description that there is unprofessional out there, but if that is the case, as the representative Lundtigen describes it, why is not collective redress – if it is the good, the important and the right instrument – used more often? I record that it has been in force for a year, and it has not been used more than once. So it's also important, I think, that we should have decency, and the people who choose to work hard in the manning industry are not forced to work in a manning company. It is entirely voluntary to apply and take a job in a crew company, but also to apply for another type of job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1492	In the last few days, the government has been criticised for wanting to create a vague law through the changes that are on the table today. It is easy to support that criticism when it is also seen that schemes that work well today should be changed or moved. While SV wants a strong work environment law, it would be thought that the government is using the opportunity to create an employment strategy for several bureaucrats. Not a bad word about the good job done by the Labour Inspectorate – on the contrary, we have many promises – but we believe that supervision should concentrate on its core tasks. We do not want to have a work environment law that could have been a work title: with bureaucracy the country should be built. My question is: how many new jobs in the Labour Inspectorate will you need to be able to keep track of all the new changes in the current labour law that the government is proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1499	I'm a little uncertain about the representative's questions. I fully agree that the Labour Inspectorate will spend its time on its core tasks. I thought that the reason we set up the Labour Inspectorate in our time was just to make sure that we have a decent working life, to ensure that the rules of the Work Environment Act are followed, and to ensure health, the environment and safety at work. That's exactly what we're giving them the opportunity to pursue more fully with the policies we're now using and that we're leading. With regard to the number of annual works, I have no clear answer as to how many annual works it will be. But it works the same way when we're in government as when the red-greens put in government, having dialogue meetings with the underlying agencies, and I expect them to be in a good position to see for themselves what resources are needed to enforce the laws and regulations that the Storting will adopt, and will normally report it back to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1509	Over 100 years ago, people on demonstration trains went for regulated working time and that day would consist of equal parts of work, sleep and leisure time. In the 1970s, women were on trains to combine work with family life. Now the government and the majority of the population will reverse the clock by weakening the Working Environment Act, which is one of the cornerstones of Norwegian working life and equality. Here in the hall, the right parties have referred to the Working Environment Act as a museum object. That's not right. The Labour Environment Act is a law that has been constantly developed and amended in the course of labour market developments. Since its first adoption in 1977, more than 50 amendments have been made to it, most recently when we adopted the multi-time paragraph, which guarantees important rights for those who work involuntary part-time. And more importantly, the law has been designed to ensure that the good solutions are found in the workplace within a framework that ensures the lives and health of employees. That's good for the individual, and that's wise of society, because if we push people too hard, we risk pushing people out of work and into disability and disease. The Perspective Communication showed that the labour force is our sovereign most important resource, and it underlined the need to take good care of the labour force. Today, we should expect a knowledge-based approach to take account of the changes you are making. The government chooses to rely on the Minister of Labour's brother-in-law's research. What the government is doing now is changing the law, in strong conflict with an overall trade union movement. The Minister of Labour may have taken individual people who believe that the law does not apply to them, but a collective trade union movement – UNIO, YS and LO – representing about 1.5 million members, is opposed to this. The government also acts despite criticism and warnings from all available expertise. According to the Labour Inspectorate, the changes in the Labour Environment Act can lead to more sickness, stress and accidents, and they also warn that the changes in the laws will facilitate more labour market criminality. The Labour Inspectorate refers to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, which shows that temporary staff stood for about 30 p.m. of all damage to construction that was treated at Trondheim Municipality Medical Care, even if they were only 5 pst. by employees. These higher figures are particularly dramatic because we know that they are also underreported. Nevertheless, the government is capable of producing the legislative changes as moderate and almost as a labour market measure. This is part of a long tradition of the two government parties. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have voted against all the main proposals we have had against social dumping and crime in the labour market. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have always argued – as they do today – that it will close weak groups out of work. Here's a pattern: they're trying to wrap the right-hand side ideology into noble intentions to help someone in, while they're actually pushing people out and contributing to a B team in the world of work. If the government was so concerned about those who are out of work, it is strange that they cut in action places rather than bet more on it. More than 200000 people receive redundancy benefits today. Nav assesses that around 120 000 of these need action sites. The Right Party and the Advance Party have no answer to that question. It's because of a lack of reality. They make it appear that Norwegian working life is rigid, stuck and without ability to change. The truth is the opposite: today we have a flexible system. It's a negotiated flexibility. We don't have job security, but we have job security, and we have a lot of that security thanks to tripartite cooperation, local and central. With its approach, the government is weakening this vital strength of Norwegian employment. They talk us down where we are good, and attack some of the foundations of the trust and cooperation culture that are among our foremost competitive advantage. The Labour Party is opposed to these changes and will vote against them today, and we have also been aware that the proposal to open up temporaryity on a general basis is a change that will be of the most temporary nature. If we get a majority in 2017, we'll reverse this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1527	The government's proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act will create greater freedom in many workplaces. Recently, I visited a nursing home in Asker, Bondistanza, — housing for people with developmental disabilities. Both the manager and the employees were very pleased with the proposed decorations in the Working Environment Act. Almost all of the 50 employees want to work longer shifts on weekends to get twice as many weekends off. Only five–six employees have chosen to follow the usual rotation of work every three weekends. In this nursing home, they have applied for a derogation in order to be allowed to work double guards every six weeks instead of every three weekends. Because the tour is so flexible, many more employees are offered 100 pst. position. Sick leave is low, residents are satisfied. They do not have to deal with so many employees during the weekends, and they can add up to excursions and trips without having to take account of this break in the middle of the day with a shift change. With the government's new proposals, many more jobs themselves will be able to agree such schemes locally and not apply to central trade unions for law. The proposal opens up the possibility for a local health home to agree on a tour with watches of 12,5 hours and longer free periods. This means, for example: that they are able to cover the weekend by two shifts per day, as opposed to the day's provision, where a minimum of three different shifts are required on a daily basis. The changes in the rules on averaging could contribute to the reduction of overtime in periods of extra labour pressure. Norwegian work has changed a lot in the last ten years. Therefore, there is a need to make some adjustments to the Working Environment Act. Today we have a law it has become common to apply for an exception from. The government has proposed to make some moderate changes that are more adapted to today’s work and family life. These changes will provide a more flexible and modern working environment law. There will be no weakening of the law of such trade unions, with LO at the head, claims, but there will be a weakening of the power of the central trade unions, that is. a shift of power from central trade unions to local trustees and to the Labour Inspectorate. Marte Gerhardsen, head of the Agenda think tank, wrote in a chronicle in Today's Business that the veto court has expired. The left-hand side should listen a little bit more to her. She says, ‘Today, one of the parties is entitled to veto working time negotiations. It's basically problematic. The time is ripe for the government’s proposal to transfer the decision-making authority to the Labour Inspectorate.’;» The majority of lots will not weaken the Working Environment Act. On the other hand, we want to strengthen it and make it more adapted to today's work and family life. The Labour Environment Act is an important law that guarantees the rights of the worker in terms of health, environment and safety. The law will contribute to an inclusive working life, and it will have to be perceived as reasonable and minimise obstacles to good local solutions negotiated by workers and employers. Therefore, it is important and timely that central trade unions are deprived of the power they have to put down for solutions that both employees and employers want locally. Local trustees do not need ‘bodyguard’ from central trade unions; they are able to decide and decide for themselves, in close cooperation with those with whom they work. The Labour Inspectorate has the power to lower the foot if the contracts concluded are of health concern. Individuals and families live different lives. Workers and employers need flexibility and different solutions. Therefore, the government wants to open up alternative working time arrangements without having to apply for recognition from central trade unions. The government wants to be able to reach an agreement on this locally. Langturnus means that employees work longer and fewer shifts against corresponding more continuous leisure time. This gives more flexibility to the individual. The same applies to the average calculation of Sunday and public holidays. The Government proposes that the employer and the employee – as today – be able to agree on the average calculation of Sundays and holidays, so that the employee on average over 26 weeks will work half of the Sundays. There will be no more Sunday work, even though the LO and the left-hand side constantly falsify it. The change is that the rest of the week has to be spent on a Sunday and holidays at least every four weeks, towards every three weeks today. This means that students and others who have a lot of assignments and exams during periods can work fewer Sundays against working more consecutively in periods of more time. This proposal provides a flexibility that many workers actually regard as a good one. Today's practice of applying for a derogation for alternative working time arrangements is difficult and demanding. I know all about that after many years as a care and care manager. We have received input from several workplaces that would try alternative tours when there is an opportunity to arrange it locally. They did not have the power to initiate the exemption applications. In order to work in such a tour as Bondiranda – as I mentioned – a dispensation application must be made from the requirements of the Working Environment Act for central trade unions once a year. There is a lot of time to argue why you want to deviate from the requirements, and sometimes it is difficult to agree. The veto rights of the central trade unions will be lost by the new proposal. It involves more power and authority for local trustees, who, together with employees and employers, can agree locally, without interference from central trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1549	Unfortunately, we see that more and more young people are losing their lives and that many are out of work and become Navs. This is very unfortunate for the individual, but also unfortunate for society as a whole. Work is important to reduce poverty, and it is important to maximise the economic freedom to be able to support themselves and their families. But it's not just the economic argument that's important to help get the most into work, psychological relationships like better self-esteem, belonging and the joy of being part of a social community are at least as important. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the Right-Fremskrit Party government is taking several important steps to get more people to work. An important step is wage subsidies. It will help to stimulate and reward employers to employ people with disabilities. Another important measure is the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients. Persons who have serious reasons for not participating shall be exempted from the obligation of activity. But still, this small but important measure has led to major protests from the red-greens. I have to say that the protests amaze me. The obligation of activity for those who can contribute to society is exclusively positive both for those who live by public benefits and for society. The obligation to work will also serve as an extra incentive to get more people to work. We can see that, for example. in the municipality of Drammen, which has very good results in referring to the activity obligation of social assistance recipients. Steinar Hansen, the Nav manager of the Drammen, is quite clear that it seems to set conditions for social assistance. Social assistance expenses in the Drammen went down by over 15 pst. after Nav started to make higher demands for the youth. There are great opportunities for what kind of work or activity this might be. In the Drammen there is a cooperation between the Church's City Mission, the Nav Drammen and the Centers for Drug Prevention. You can pick used syringes and garbage. Other current tasks related to the obligation of activity may include simple janitorial tasks, snow-moking, bedding, repair of playgrounds, painting and cleaning of paths, bathing areas, well-being, etc. But it's not just important to help young people get a job and contribute to society. At the other end of the ‘age scale’, we have those who have reached retirement age but still want to work. It is also important that legislation and employment do not exclude older workers who still want to contribute to society and who still want to work. The changes now adopted by the majority of the population open up to provide workers with a job protection until they reach the age of 72. This is not how someone has tried to produce it, that you now have to work any longer. It only opens up an opportunity for those who want it to work until they reach the age of 72, without being ‘retired’ against their will. Either way, it's a little illogical with today's age limit of 70, which is what has been until now been adjusted up to 72 years, since the possibilities of pension credits in the population's population are up to 75 years old. Older workers also have enormous skills and experience and are therefore a great resource for society. As there is fewer active persons per pensioner, society depends on more people coming into work, and those who work, also work longer. It is important that we stimulate more people to work. Given that life expectancy is increasing, it also makes sense that more people can get to work longer. In this context, it's a little interesting to note that skilled entrepreneurs, such as IKEA founder Ingvar Kamprad or our own Olav Thon have both gone far 72 years – they are probably closer to 90 years than 70 years – but they still contribute enormously in society to growth, employment and value creation. The violent criticism the government has been subjected to because we want to open up for people to work a little longer in shorter periods, I must say, seems mildly unreasonable. The right-wing Party government only proposes that it be possible to work, for example: five hours more per month. It's actually going to be no more than a little over an hour a week. The total number of hours of overtime in a year shall be fixed — it is unchanged. In view of how long the meeting day – or perhaps the meeting night – is going to be today, it is a little paradox that we are now dealing with the Working Environment Act and the small adjustments that the majority of people are going to make regarding a little longer working days. But thanks to good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, the changes in the Working Environment Act are now being adopted. I look forward to continued good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which can be continued in other good matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1580	The decisions that are going to be taken here sometime in the evening make me think that today is a sad day. For my part, I started my first full-time job in 1977, the year the Working Environment Act was adopted. I was so lucky to get into the labour market in a situation where those who had gone ahead of us politically had made sure that working life would become progressively safer. I know that my parents were concerned that we were going to get a regular job, a safe job and a basis for establishing ourselves when we got that age. So that year the Working Environment Act was passed. Since then, the Working Environment Act has been amended 50 times. It is not that we today have a work environment law from 1977. However, in common with the changes that have taken place, there have been gradual improvements for workers in this country. The last one concluded that it would be better to get a regular job when you had worked a lot of part-time. This is the first time we have a majority in Stortinget that actively and ideologically weakens the Working Environment Act. Especially provocative, I think, is that some people are trying to make it like a weakening of the work environment law in the interests of the weak in the labour market. The Disability Joint Organisation, the Disability Association – representatives of the weak groups in society – was very clear on this when the Stortinge had a consultation on the Working Environment Act. They're upset. Of course, it is not such a way of weakening the Labour Environment Act in the interests of the weak in the labour market. The situation on the labour market today causes us to see more and more cases of social dumping and of labour crime, often linked to other crimes, even trafficking in human beings. It calls for us to strengthen the law and regulation, not for us to weaken it. Today, too many in Norway have only a temporary job to attend. The problem in society today is not that we have too few temporary posts; the problem today is that there are too many in temporary positions. So the council says he takes people seriously. Yes, what is clear from the big papers, from the proposition and from the hearing, is that he does not take the Labour Inspectorate seriously, which strongly warns against what is going on, he does not take the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work seriously, he does not take the Petroleum Inspectorate seriously – he does not even take the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality seriously, who has asked for an investigation of the gender consequences. The hearings are not taken seriously either. Against all the input that has come into this process, partly in the government's own documents, is the government's self-produced anecdotes – about people he's talked to around the country. I am pleased with the successful examples of flexibility that are being mentioned, but this way the Council of State confirms the fact that today we have a very flexible work environment law, where one finds good solutions when there is agreement on it. We are in favour of a balanced and flexible work environment law. That is why we are opposed to many of the amendments proposed here. It's not unknown what we see in front of us here. We've seen it in international politics, in many countries. We've seen it in Thatcher's United Kingdom. We've seen it under Reaganism. And we've seen it under the right wave in Sweden. What it has in common is that it has produced poor results for society, it has given high unemployment – in Sweden, youth unemployment is around 20pst., and half of those in employment are in temporary employment today. That's not the society we want to live in. We will build on a model that has given Norway a good economy and Europe's lowest unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1601	Through Prop. 48 L has sent a clear signal by the government that you want to take older workers, or the seniors if you want to, seriously by giving the opportunity to stay longer in the labour market. It is positive, shows that older workers can fill important functions in the workplace, and at the same time change our view of what it means to be older. However, this will require more attention to be paid to the resource of older workers. In our society with a high emphasis on younger workers and their working capacity, it is important to look at the experience skills of older workers. In everyday school life, it is important to maintain the skills of older workers in meeting pupils. It is precisely the interaction between competence and experience that is the most important. It is quite obvious, in my opinion, that authority — and the elderly — is needed in Norwegian school, in the day-to-day school you meet. The same is true in professional subjects, where seniors who have learned many practical skills over the years do not necessarily learn in school. At the same time, we must not forget those who want to stand longer in the workplace but who do not have that opportunity because of impaired health. It's a group that is easily forgotten when you think of those who have a desire to stay longer in the workplace, beyond 70 years. I often think of Arne Næss as an example of a person who worked even after retirement – with important philosophical questions. Arne Næss was a well-known professor of philosophy at the University of Oslo from 1939 to 1970. Through his textbook to graduate philosophy Some elementary logical subjects and the curriculum book Philosophy's history he had a great influence on Norwegian university education, and he had it far beyond retirement. There are many such as Arne Næss in Norway — where work and quality of life are two sides of the same coin. Those of us who are over 50, and there are some people in this room, probably remember the physics program on the root room with Ormestad and Øgrim, which was obviously an exciting, small crowd who had fun working, but who at the same time saw the positive quality of life by standing in the work. The government wants to make it easier for older people to stay longer in the labour market. An important overall objective is to create a working life for all, where the elderly are not discriminated against. Many factors argue that those who want it can work longer, even after 70 years of age. High labour input is important for society, among other things. because it contributes to economic growth and to the financing of public sector expenditure. For the individual, work yields income, and the workplace is an important social arena. There is also no doubt that linking social networks has a lot to do in the workplace — which may be lost for some older people when you have to stop brutally because you have reached a certain age limit. Legislation that contributes to increasing the age of retirement from work also contributes to the mobilisation of labour at a time when this is becoming increasingly important. The general age limit in the Working Environment Act may appear as a signal to workers approaching 70 years of age that their work is no longer wanted. This may in itself contribute to a decision by employees to terminate their employment, even if they had a desire to continue. An increase in the age limit of today’s 70s could be seen as a signal that older workers are wanted in the workplace. In the long term, this can help to increase the participation of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1622	The government's websites say that for years to come, we need more hands to work. Everyone agrees. And everyone agrees that a large proportion of these hands must necessarily be women's hands. The government says that we need to facilitate working time and family life better together. We're still in agreement. This is one of the major challenges in working life – today and in the foreseeable future. But then that was the answer to the challenges. Yes, then we get to the point where they all, most of these of the load and in vain try to find the logic of government policy. What is it that is family and female friendly in longer working days, more overtime, more temporaryity and more Sunday work? On the contrary, heavy hearing bodies show that in the wake of such family-friendly proposals, we see clear contours of an increasing part-time culture. At the same time, the government manages to claim that such setbacks for equality are modern. And the worst of all, the retreat is going to be adopted. The government wants more women in full-time positions, but adds up to the opposite. Among those who have problems seeing the logic of the government and the majority of the population add up, there is a collective movement of trades, with the UNIO, like, among other things. organises nurses, YS, NITO, LO, with their employees in trade in goods and care professionals, and heavy professional bodies such as the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate underlines inter alia: that the proposed liberalisation of working time, overtime and Sunday work would be detrimental to many women and to single-parents. Caregivers depend on day-to-day predictability, whether in kindergarten or in the SFO, on leisure activities or on taking care of old parents. Thus, they are also more subjected to negative stress when the predictability of everyday life is reduced. The majority of these caregivers are women. Nursing and care professionals face major challenges in recruitment. The majority of employees are women, and studies show that 35 pst. of those who work in the so-called consolation and carrier professions, are no longer active from the age of 55 and up. It's way above the average. The Labour Inspectorate – not the Labour Force Party, but the Labour Inspectorate – warns that longer working days and more overtime can lead to even more early endings, more part-time jobs, a change of job or a greater burden on health. So this is going to go into the government and the population of the population with open eyes, and it's not going to be true. In addition, the National Labour Market Institute refers to research that says that in health-related professions, the risk is doubled to make errors in job placements over 12 hours. We are not just talking about equality, family life and recruitment problems; we are also talking about the quality of important welfare services, which are crucial for the quality of life of people with daily needs for care and care. So the following reasoning is not sucked from your own chest, but here it comes: Women's weaker relationship to work is well documented. Longer employment rates and increased unforeseeableness can negatively affect the role of women and men in working life, and the role of fathers and mothers in caring at home. ‘We ask for an gender impact assessment to be drawn up, cf. Point of the Exploration Instructions. [[...]] 2.3.2. Fortunately, in the negotiations the government has had to listen a little. The Christian People's Party has been given the opportunity to continue today's ban on Sunday work, but it may quickly turn out to be a pyrrhoeque if the government carries out the election promise on Sunday open shops, because then the provision «unless the nature of the work makes it necessary» will enter with full weight. Sunday-open shops must also have employees at work. Today, 46 000 employees work in commerce on Sundays. With Sunday-open shops, a further 200,000 people have to cover themselves on Sunday work. In addition, the Left and Christian People's Party have accepted that you can work three Sundays in a row instead of two, as today. It is better than the government's wish for five in a row, but in any case, unfortunately, with the help of the Christian People's Party, it becomes more Sunday work than today. It is neither particularly gender equality nor family friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1639	After many years of neglecting the part-time-full-time problem, the challenge is now being addressed. ==References== 40 pst. by Norwegian women work part-time — many of them involuntary. Involuntary part-time is a form of unemployment we have to combat. That is also the goal of this government. But it's weird about that -- there's a difference between people talking a lot about something and people doing something. They're not always the same people. It is a fact that could not have emerged more clearly during the discussion on changes to the Working Environment Act. The shift/turnus selection was quite clear – you have to tackle the so-called weekend problem, i.e. the need for staffing during the weekends. The working party had its way of getting hold of it. When Støre was Minister of Health, he said that nurses had to expect more frequent weekend shifts. Not everyone was so happy about it. Our approach is different. It's about being able to decide more about your own working hours, deciding more about your own tour. Then it's up to each job to assess which solution is best. In many cases where attempts are made, our approach leads to fewer sanctuaries than today, and more people are getting job breaks. For example, there has been an increase in job breaks. seen as a consequence of the midwives at the hospital in Westfold. In the acute psychiatric ward of the hospital in Telemark, all involuntary part-time hours have been removed. From our point of view, we have expressed astonishment that red-green parties are so little concerned with following up assessments they have been involved in, for example. in the messages as the perspective message. When you've asked about this here, the answer from the Workers' Party has been that they made the perspective statement, so they know what they're talking about. Yes, we know that – that is why we are surprised at the lack of interest in responses to the challenges. 165 hours is what you've calculated that every Northman has to work more this year to maintain the current welfare level in the future, and we know that it's not a good goal because you're going to expect higher quality. To achieve this, we need to include more people in work, and we need to make sure that more people who want to work full-time are able to do it. We lower the thresholds to work, and we have a policy that facilitates the possibility for more people to have increased job breaks. Red-greens call it a rage – it is not a believer. Politicians from the left have said that the changes will lead to more overtime and more Sunday work. That's not right. It's not that because you distribute existing possibilities differently, it becomes more of it. The Labour Party has had a remarkable strategy in the discussions. When I met the representative at Trettebergstuen in Political Quarter not long ago, I asked her if there would be more Sunday work. "Yes," she said. When the programme manager asked the same question, she said ‘no, but let me explain’. That's how you can throw out a statement. After that, it's moderated. But it doesn't matter – you've made an impression. Such rhetoric is not a believer. The working party does not believe that what they say is for believers either. That is why they refuse to answer what will be reversed and what will be retained by the changes. It is not possible to get an answer – the NRK has not been able to get an answer; the newspaper has not been able to get an answer; we have not been able to get an answer. These are the same people who talk about a safe and predictable working life. Irony is striking. When we say that we must overcome the discrimination of older people in the workplace, the Labour Party says that they see the need, but they vote against it. I remember them calling themselves a constructive opposition party. We've heard arguments about unworthy career endings. Because it is clear – discrimination is what it takes to provide dignity. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have agreed on necessary and good adjustments in the Working Environment Act. We have agreed because we see that working life has a different set of challenges than it had when the Working Environment Act was passed almost 40 years ago. We want a work life that is safe, a world-class work life. In Norway, we have the best assumptions for continuing to be like this. But we have to see the challenge picture we have today, and we have to meet it together. It adds up to this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1669	Right has a long tradition of pushing weak groups and misunderstandings individual freedom over its arguments to weaken the protection of workers. Before the law on factory supervision was adopted in 1892, the party refused to regulate the working time of mature workers and explained that one should not prevent grown-up independent men from taking on as much work as they themselves would. Nor did the law prohibit child labour, as the labour movement demanded, and although it introduced a lower limit of 12 years, it did not follow with control mechanisms to ensure compliance with the laws. To ban child labour would be the same as taking the bread out of the mouth of many poor families, asserted Right then, and a ban on night work for young people between 14 and 18 would make it difficult for young people to get work. That's it. Now, today, it's the work environment law that's going to the press. The right party and the employers' organisations in my code are too good that it doesn't fit the reality of the day. So they're busy making work environment laws more flexible. This flexibility is just a tribute that hides the real agenda: reducing staff costs and making life easier for employers by shifting power from employees. The right hand side has always listened more to employers than to employees. The working party is critical to such a shift of power because the force ratio is already biased. The employer sits with the strongest cards, and only through strong laws and good professional organisation can this be smoothed out. If we weaken the work environment law, we give employers even greater control over the working day. If exceptions to the laws are to be made at the workplace, it is more difficult to say no to the individual worker. In fact, the work environment law is flexible and opens up too many local adaptations. Often it is the business leaders who complain the most about the law, who have at least looked into the scope of the law. If there is a local trade union, the employer may agree to a very large exemption from the main statutory working time rules. Large exceptions to working time arrangements are granted by the Labour Inspectorate and even greater exceptions are granted by national trade unions. These exceptional destinations are a kind of four-stage rocket that, as I see it, makes up an existing balance point. Your major exceptions to the main rules for working time, the higher your system needs to approve. We should note what kind of rhetoric the Right Party and the Progress Party uses on the Working Environment Act. They are systematic in their use of words about their own proposals for changes of promise: softening, flexibility, modern. In this way, the government will leave an impression of the work environment law that it is rigid, rigid, old-fashioned, immature. This is completely wrong. But this tactic is going to be the basis for the right-wing ideological changes that we're now seeing coming. The difference between the Labour Party and the Government is that we don't want to weaken the power of ordinary workers and give the organized working life poorer conditions. We don't want anyone else locked in the security of temporary additions. More evening and weekend jobs, longer days and more temporary additions are not emulations; there are restrictions on employees. We don't want a work environment law that only fits the healthy and fast ones and those who can do their work with the iPad from the sofa hook in the evening. A safe and decent working life is an important part of the Norwegian social model, which means that we are at the top level internationally when it comes to combining even income distribution, good welfare, competitiveness and innovation. It is precisely this government that is at stake when they claim to modernise their working life and soften their work environment laws. On the other hand, the changes they propose will lead to a harder work life, and their historical failure is to believe that a more modern work life will be restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1689	We basically have a good working life in Norway. We have a high level of professional participation, we have a flexible law and an agreement that facilitates safety and well-being at work, too high productivity and too high adaptability in Norwegian working life. But it's not that the sky is sloppy and everything is joy and vulture. Sometimes it's not just clouds in the sky, it's howling in some industries. In 1978, I began working as a carpenter. It was a good profession, fairly well paid and as safe as it can be in the construction industry. Throughout the 1980s, we fought a fight against the contract industry in the workplace. In the 1990s, it was illegal to hire foreign labour because it was a construction boom, and in the 2000s and until now, social dumping has been the theme. This has particularly affected the construction industry. I'm talking to old colleagues who are frustrated by the state of the profession now. We see that the profession is being undermined, health, the environment and safety in the workplace are being weakened, and productivity has gone down steadily and steadily. In the 1990s I was employed by the Building Workers' Association to monitor illegal labour and renting. We saw then, as now, that this was first of all about social dumping, and it's a straight line from the time we see it now, but with the difference that it's much worse now than it was then. The question is, who is it that is affected when you have a large element of illegal hiring at a workplace? Yes, it is quite clear that it affects those workers who have their daily work in the companies that suddenly get a large amount of rent and illegal rent. It affects the job security of the people, it affects the working environment of those at that place of work, and it affects health, the environment and safety at work. For those who are hired, we know that it's also about social dumping and their job security. However, when a majority in this Chamber is going to eliminate collective redress, it is hampering work on undermining employment and on social dumping and on the good working environment that we have fought against. It's a tragedy and a long retreat. Then I hear the Council of State says that it is voluntary whether you want to work in a rental company or not. Well, well – my experience, also as a former long-term unemployed person, is that when you leave long enough, you take what you get. However, we can hardly interpret the Council of State differently now when he says that this should be voluntary, rather than that those who go unemployed and refuse to take up work in a rental company will still receive a daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1700	Today, the biggest challenge in the health and care sector is that we waste scarce resources, both because the part-time share is so high, and because the high level of sick leave causes large losses of labour resources. The high proportion of part-time work has its background in the change in the regular rotation from the second to the third weekends of the 1980s. Then the need for part-time positions increased by 50 pst. With today's tour, it's mathematically impossible just to fill up with full-time jobs unless one facilitates significant overstaffing at the most curative times of the day. Turnus is simply a rather complicated puzzle game. A good solution to the part-time problem is to facilitate flexible tournaments and long-term watchmen. This is the way far more jobs can be offered throughout. In addition, long-term watchmen contribute to stability, continuity and complete safety for users. In dementia care, we see this clearly. There will be fewer shifts and shifts in the day and fewer people to deal with. It also means that users are surrounded by qualified staff throughout the week and day. It contributes to better quality of life. And it feels motivating and increasing the mastery of employees, because they see that long-winders have a positive impact on users. I believe that the conflict and level of debate about the moderate changes in the Working Environment Act have been removed from proportions. Anette Trettebergstien says in the debate today that it might be wise to know the everyday life of most people. In fact, some of us have quite recently worked on the famous ‘goldenware’. As a nurse, I have therefore missed a more constructive participation in the debate between the opposition parties and the workers' organisations. It's very difficult to recognize in the horror propaganda that has shaped many of the posts, and on me it just seems distant from the clinical everyday life. For what is the clinical everyday life? Indeed, one of the main challenges in both Norwegian hospitals and Norwegian hospitals is repeated breaches of the Work Environment Act. Most people working in busy departments have worked double shifts — many times — to save colleagues from overwork alone, and to secure patients until the next shift. Last September, Romerikes Blad told us that Akershu University Hospital broke the Working Environment Act 15 000 times. The representative Lundtägen said today that there is more than enough Sunday and holiday work, and that more of it would not create more well-being. But better tour arrangements would ensure more quality and competence on watch on Sundays and holidays. It creates more well-being and creates more patient safety. I am now pleased that alternative tour arrangements can be negotiated and decided locally. It is the local staff and local trustees who know patients, the pressure in the department and the need for proper competence in a timely manner. With more flexible working time arrangements, we help to reduce the number of offenders in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1718	Last week, I visited Trondheim Prison at Tonga to talk to the two trade unions there – the Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Association and the Association of Criminal Services – after they had invited me to talk about the work environment law and what they perceive as its faults and shortcomings. The two unions have a long job to get permission to double the guards, and then to have a period of leave later. They're not allowed to do that. Until now, it has been possible to be compensated in the form of money, but not in the form of leisure – there has been the fundamental limit. An arrangement that both the employees and the prison management have intended to facilitate work and make everyday life easier for the employee and the employer has been stopped. After repeated trips to Youngstorget and LO centrally to get an understanding of their situation and to get permission for this scheme – which they did not get – they almost gave up. LO, the Workers' Party, SV and others would like to claim that local trustees are under pressure from the employer and a few colleagues who want to work longer shifts. I have more confidence in the local trade unions than that. I think they work for the best for themselves and their members. You may disagree with the proposals or make policies out of it, but undermining adults, up-and-coming and self-employed people to become puppets for the few or for the employer are statements I think we should be very careful to use in such contexts. At the end of the day, it is about trust that, as politicians, we should have confidence that, in each job, both employers and employees, they can manage their own lives better than we can do as politicians in Oslo – a framework that, moreover, continues to make the Labour Environment Act a safe protection law, with clear external constraints, but much less rigid than it has been now, with local freedom of action for those who have the kaloses on their feet, and not for those who wear large-scale and departmental pennies. Another important proposal to be debated today and finally adopted is the strengthening of the employment protection of older workers. Life expectancy of Norwegian residents and workers has increased considerably over the last decades, as a result of the wealth we have gained and accumulated. Many people have better health and want to work longer. It is quite right, as the representative Rotevatn said in his post: this is the competence we have to manage and use far more than we have now. This increase in the age limit in the Working Environment Act will be an important signal and will make it easier for those who want to stay longer in work to get a chance to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1731	I had my first full-time full-time job, which I received in 1982 – at a hotel, where I worked for 17 years every weekend in a profession where weekend work was and is necessary. All the works I have had have been separated less free in nature than being here at Stortinget. I am therefore provoked when representatives compare our seasonal little swings with some evening work, with most people. We are separate working time destinations and have freedom others can only dream about. For those of us who have our place in the organized working class, this is just one day we could imagine ahead. It's only been eleven years since the last time the bulk of the population broke down the fence and protected the weakest part of the swap. It was Victor Norman and the Bondevik II government. In the largest market place in life, such as working life, we were able to get most in place again in 2005, with a new government. The working life we're talking about, the modern working life, is not as different as the working life that was when tradesmanship started its work. It's the most important arena of power and power that we have. The strength relationship we have here is very decisive for the security and quality of life that the individual can have – yes, for the society that thus becomes very affected by what kind of regulation and organization we provide here in this room. There's a lot of power here. It is very difficult that the government party and the supporting parties have decided to give priority to those who have the most power in the world of work, i.e. the employers. SV's perspective is to continue to fight for a work environment law that fulfills the purpose it was supposed to have, and which is a protection law for the large majority that needs it. As our member of the committee, Kirsti Bergstø, has taken up earlier in the debate, whole and full positions are fully possible if it is willful, under the laws of today, as they do in the hospitals of Finnmark and in the vast majority of Clas Ohlson and Jernia shops where the people work at the mall, but which they cannot get at the same mall where women work. There is nothing to do with the laws. In order for more people to remain in office for up to 70 years, and for more people to have some leisure time, we need strong trade unions as well as strong legislation. Today's proposal for a decision, which is supported by the majority, will weaken both. It hurts me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1746	On 1 March, the deadline expired for applying for admission to high school. Many young people made an important decision for the future; what do I want with my life, where am I going to work, and what are the opportunities in working life? There are opportunities — especially as skilled workers. There is a broad consensus that there are too few who are trained to be skilled workers. NHO, LO and other organisations are concerned about recruitment. So a lot more people should choose a profession after high school. There are several reasons why recruitment has failed. One of these is that industries are largely characterised by social dumping, poor working conditions and labour crime. The government's proposals for changes to the Labour Environment Act will facilitate more social dumping, not less. In addition to the introduction of temporary employment, working conditions become tougher, not better. The construction industry is very exposed. The same applies to the cleaning industry and the restaurant industry. There is a need for strong clean-up with increased supervision and control of taxes, taxes, the use of illegal labour and other illegalities. A good work environment law that does not allow for more temporary use is an important tool to combat unprofessional conditions. We want to give our young people a safe and good working life with permanent employment and the opportunity to plan for the future in the certainty that they will enter a clean working life with a good protection for workers. This is necessary in order to give young people the certainty that vocational training is a good choice, a good choice for their own future and a good choice for the future of society, because today there are both too few skilled workers and their working days being challenged by more teams. So our task is to make young people's choices about becoming skilled workers more attractive, not less. The Workers' Party has proposed a plan to raise a professional profession. It is now being treated in the Stortinget. We expect a broad majority for many of the proposals. It can do a lot with the training that we hope will get more people to choose a profession, but it is worth little if it is no longer attractive to work in the sectors that employ skilled workers. We must fight, not facilitate social dumping. If we're going to succeed, the changes we're now seeing under the Working Environment Act are just bad policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1759	The representatives of the government parties continue today to pretend that the changes they are making make them their own best for the workers, despite the fact that a single employee side went to a general strike against these changes on 28 January and protested strongly. Despite the fact that disabled people through their organisations will have asked to be used in this way, the representatives of the government parties continue to say that this is in their best interests. Later on, it seems that by depriving the trade unions of the central right of adjustment and transferring responsibility to the locally elected trustees, several dream tournaments will be held. It's not going to be like that. Those who want dream tours and long-term guards get it today. Trustees locally do not want to have the responsibility they involve to approve such extreme watch arrangements. They want the law of the day. When they demonstrated outside the Stortinget on 28 January, it was not against the Workers' Party, it was against the government parties. 20 000 people stood here, and you should listen to the trusted locals who know where the shoe is pressing. Stefan Heggelund says that we claim that there will be more Sunday work and longer shifts. Yes, we do, because it will be. It doesn't matter to the single mother who can now be imposed longer working day and more overtime for a week and therefore can't follow her son on football training, it doesn't matter to her when she doesn't get to do it there and then, that the annual frameworks are in place. People live their lives here and now and not within an annual framework. More people will experience the need to be forced on longer shifts, more overtime, and the possibility of planning for leisure time and combining working life with family life may be compromised. This again shows that government parties do not understand people's everyday lives and the problems and challenges that small children's families, for example. It has. Nor is it the case that the government parties do not get an answer to what the Workers' Party wants to do with the Working Environment Act when we return to power. We've repeated it once again, and I can repeat it once again: we're going to reverse the grip on temporary employment. When it comes to the rest, we'll look at the challenges and needs of Norwegian working life, hopefully in 2017, sit down with the social partners, with the trade union movement, and look at the needs then. I don't think it keeps going back to the 2014 level. I think that working life needs more powerful action, for example. against involuntary part-time, against work-life crime. We've always strengthened the Working Environment Act, and we're also going to do that when we come to power, hopefully, in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1768	I heard the previous speeches, and it can sometimes be a good idea, I think, to update the speech points of reality. When it's claimed from this pulpit that we're today adding that people are being imposed longer guards, being imposed more overtime, it's, with respect to reporting, wrong. If you read the setting, it is clear that all the changes require local agreement. No one can be imposed. It is part of the tradition of this case, that someone has claimed – and even from the pulpit today, SV – that we are now going to tear down the fences. People have used words as a layman's society, that you have to stand by the hand, you have to eliminate overtime payment, 13 hours of work day, people have to be charged. These are statements that are not correct. Therefore, I would recommend that more people read the setting, so that you can actually see that the decorations we do are about having the opportunity to agree to work more for some periods in exchange for free in other periods. The representative Anette Trettebergstuen mentioned an example with a mother who wants to accompany her child to football training. Yeah, that's exactly this flexibility that the law could give. If you have shared care for your children, you can, for example: the week you do not care for the children, work more in exchange for working less during the periods you care for the children. As I was in my main post, the Progress Party is very pleased that we are now strengthening the protection against dismissal for older workers. It should be a matter of course. The Labour Party criticises us. They say yes, this may make sense, but they have to get approval from LO first. That's a strange attitude. It has been eight years if you wanted to strengthen job protection for older workers. YS wants this. So there are people on both the employer and the employee sides who want this. Then it is strange that the Workers' Party is not ready to do this today. It's about who knows the world of work the best. I want to make a few quotes that former State Secretary of the Workers' Party, Stein Lier-Hansen, joined the Newspaper. He belongs as well known Norwegian Industry now and knows the business well. When he was challenged by what he thought about the Workers' Party and the reactions of the trade union movement to the changes in the Working Environment Act, he said the following: «I think they exaggerate the matter very much.» I fully agree with this statement. The last statement he made is: ‘I think the changes proposed are a modernisation that adapts the law to a more modern and flexible society.’ I also fully agree with the former State Secretary of the Workers' Party, Stein Lier-Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1793	The Labour Environment Act is a protection law, and it is designed to protect the most important resource we have in society, namely the labour force, and to take care of it. Some of us are so old that we've been through before the Working Environment Act came, and we still have so much memory that we know that the direction you want to move in now, at least is not modern – it's old-fashioned. One wants to weaken a protection that one has fought for because one wanted to protect the most important resource — and the everyday life and working life of all, so that it was possible to participate too many. It is also very strange to hear in this debate that you should have confidence in the trade union movement, when the trade union movement has said so unisonly that you do not want these changes. Then you can ask the question, who is not listening to the trade movement? There is flexibility in today's law, and it has been managed very responsibly and finely. The examples referred to here today are within the scope of today's Working Environment Act. So it's actually fully possible to get to. You get it when you agree locally and you conference with the trade unions centrally. So we have a modern work environment law, and we don't have to make it more old-fashioned. I have also been among those who have reacted very strongly to the fact that people with disabilities have been pushed in front of them. In order to accommodate people with disabilities in the workplace, provision is often needed. It is very unlikely that an employer will be involved in the organisation of a temporary job or job offer. Disabled persons need permanent work, and it is fully possible even within the current law to have temporary employment when the need is temporary. You tell some kind of adventure that only you get to these changes, everyone gets to work right when they want to. No, I guess the bus is going to go when the bus is going to go, the kindergarten is going to be open when the kindergarten is going to be open, the store is going to be open, there's going to be someone in the hospital, and there's even going to be someone in the factories. It's not going to be that way that people can choose to work right when they want to. The problem now is that they can be pressured locally to work at times that are even worse with a good family life. Some of the strangest thing about this debate is the full-time and part-time argumentation. In today's working life, it has been possible to provide full-time people. In all the sectors where there are men working, it's full time. It's in the women's workplaces it's not full time. At that time, it is not the Labour Environment Act that stands in the way, but attitudes and instruments to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1808	I would like to congratulate the government and, in particular, the Progress Party on another step towards dismantling the Norwegian welfare society. When the party president of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, made a settlement with the Norwegian model at the party’s national meeting, few thought that a deterioration would become a reality, but that is exactly what is happening now. The combination of tax cuts to the richest, privatisation of well-being and a more unsafe working life is the recipe for more inequality, injustice and insecurity. This is not a policy for most people. The conclusion of the Norwegian welfare model is firmly anchored in the Norwegian people. It's therefore sad that we have a government that doesn't care what people think, but who run their ideological project, cost what it will cost. Our welfare community has been built up over decades. Today, one is attacking one of the supports of this proud construction plant, namely the safe working life. This government specialises in forcing through policies that most people are opposed to — which are also relevant to the attack on safe working life. A solid piece of legislation, a strong trade union movement, a balance of power and equivalent tripartite cooperation have made Norwegian employment robust, growth-intensive and secure. I understand that one's eager for more inequality, injustice and insecurity seems to have to weaken the trade union movement and the employees' rights. It's the recipe that right-wing forces in every country follow. In that fight rhetoric is used as ‘more flexibility and freedom of choice’, but the question is who. At least it is not for the regular worker. Health is also important in this context. There is much evidence that a more liberalised working life, with impaired rights, leads to more pressure on the health of workers. A good and safe working life is also a good public health policy. It is strange to hear the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter. It seems that a weakening of workers' rights is a gift package for most people. The systematic work of the government for more inequality, injustice and insecurity must, in the opinion of the Right and the Advance Party, provide safer jobs, provide better welfare services and provide more work, even if the experience of such a policy, from all other countries where the right forces have controlled or controlled, leads to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1823	It is important to ensure the framework conditions for workers, but it is also important to safeguard the interests of users. It may not be in the interest of a demented person to have to deal with 70 to 80 different employees during a month, and it may not be such that the Youngstorget should decide that it has to be all over the country. Therefore, it is important that we today facilitate a few more full-time positions in the care sector, and that we can get tournaments that go up in another way, for the benefit of patients. That someone can then have the opportunity to work one Sunday extra, e.g. a student, is positive, while others can actually get the opportunity to work fewer Sundays. This has been largely achieved in the extension of the HVPU reform, which has other tournaments in that part of the welfare sector, but we have not managed to do so in the care sector. The new law makes it easier to find solutions locally, and the fact that the Labour Inspectorate is to guarantee HMS supervision is, of course, ensured. Another important point is the increase in age to 72 years. Some municipalities actually use older labour and employ support contacts and visiting friends in the care of dementia. We know that there will be more and more dentures in the next few years, and to meet that need, it is important that more older people over the age of 67 may have the opportunity to have employment with municipalities and other actors until they are 72 years old, and preferably longer, to contribute. We're not going to call it volunteer, because that's actually a reason why they're employed, and that's because the municipalities want to teach them and give them competence. This is an important part of the legislation, for which there is no loud scream in the trade movement today, but the offer out there shouts for more warm hearts and warm hands that can contribute with their wise life experience into dementia care. The left welcomes the changes we have made through the negotiations with the government parties, and also the changes we are making to the Civil Service Act, which means that there will be less use of short-term positions in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1834	The President will remind you that we are still on case No. 1 of 21 things on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1837	This is at least one thing we don't take lightly, and that's important. I have to say that I feel, having followed this debate, as a left-wing representative and as a social liberal, among those who believe that in the most serious workplaces you use kalosi – in my world you use it when you're on your way to a party – and the others who think that this can only be conveyed by simple slogans that can be painted on a banner, and who believe that you dismantle a welfare state by developing a work environment law after a changing labour market. This has the left hand job for a long time. We've been working on it for a long time, and we've had big, strong organizations that have spent a lot of money campaigning against us. Nevertheless, we've got a majority here in the main hall for what we stand for, no matter how much money the rich organizations have spent to stop the Left in making the changes we're now making. The person who is happy in the welfare state must make sure to develop it. The left has been involved in developing all major important reforms in this room, and if you are not willing to change anything, you are not taking care of anything either. The challenge of temporaryity is that it's hard to get in, and in some places people are forever temporarily. These are the two challenges that our society faces. Then we have to take action to make it easier to get in – and at the same time more difficult to take the long breaks. The aim of the left is not to weaken the trade movement. Moving power down doesn't mean you want weak trade unions. Strong professional organisations are anti-conflict in many workplaces – they train trust-elected people and ensure that people are qualified to make decisions. But for the Left, since the dawn of time, it has always been important to move power down into society – closer to those who actually feel the challenges. We think it's very good that we've been strengthened on alert protection, sail if this is just a step further on the way. However, it is important to ensure that there is a much greater transparency in Norwegian working life and good solutions. I believe that the changes you are making will strengthen women in the workplace, precisely because you're going to get many full-time jobs. Traditional women's churches are often about taking care of people 24 hours a day, while traditional people's professions are about caring for machines that don't always have to be taken care of 24 hours a day. We have a country where you can make very good arrangements around those who are going to take care of our oil, but those who are going to take care of our children and the old, you can't make good arrangements around. I imagine that we will now have many more full-time jobs, many better watch arrangements, and that it will be much easier for women to organise their working life. In general, I think these are good solutions. I think we're going to see the consequences of this that makes it not change once it's worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1856	Several of the speakers have referred to the general strike in January. After hearing the debate, in this matter in particular, on Prop. 48 L on working time, age limits and penalties, I would say that there has been a great deal of silence for nothing. The representative Anette Trettebergstuen, who was the main speaker of the Workers' Party, told quite clearly that the Stortinget decided in this case tonight, will not be automatically changed. There I think you're in for something, because there will be no more overtime on this matter, and there will be no more Sunday work on this matter. But there's going to be another average calculation within the same framework that applies to today's work environment law. The Social Democratic Thought Tank Agenda recommended that the Workers' Party review the policy, for example: in the case of long-term tour. Raymond Johansen, a party secretary, did the same at the cartel conference after the 2009 elections, where LO was challenged to look at less rigid working hours in the future. So five to six years later, the Workers' Party copies what was proposed at the time, and on which the Workers' Party really hoped that the LO would be involved. In terms of age limits, I'm pretty sure they're over time. We have a broad bourgeois majority for all the proposals for decisions in the Chamber today, but with regard to age limits, the Senter Party has broken out of red-green cooperation and supported the government on all points. I appreciate that very much, and I'm going to pay tribute to the Center Party for that. But I'm a little surprised if the Workers' Party – of all – is the party that's going to run election campaigns in 2017 to make it easier to kick 71-year-olds, 70-year-olds or 72-year-olds. Is it following the line of work? Does it follow the needs of society for labour? No, it can't. In summary, this proposition is standing regardless of what may happen to choices, because it is high time for most changes. They are involved in modernising working life, and they are responding to a number of the challenges we face. And for 2017, no matter what happens when it comes to elections or government, these are the points that stand out so well that as case rapporteur I am willing to come back to this room and look at the status – if I am still elected. It's a good law that's being passed tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1870	In 1908 the brother of my tippole father, Andreas Blattmann, was the strike leader at the strike in Rjukan. They fought for 14 weeks to get a living — to the extent that it can be called viable in 1908 — working environment and a living wage. At that time, it was clear that the Labour Environment Act was not for workers — in so far as there was some law that was at all for workers — it was definitely only for employers. Since 1908, workers throughout the country and around the world have fought for better working conditions, wages and tariffs. We've strengthened that law and made it the world's best work environment law, and even we've gone with the red book in the back pocket and had it with us at work, when, for example. one has been elected to trust himself, or others have been representatives of my dear Workers' Party. Then, for the second time in history, we experience that there is a civil government that wants to ‘desimate’ the Working Environment Act — make the rights of employees worse — and they claim that the background to this is flexibility. When I said that we have the best working environment law in the world, we also have it because it gives a great deal of flexibility. There are very few jobs that experience that the Work Environment Act prevents day, evening or weekend work from taking place under the provisions of the Work Environment Act. There were arguments used in this room, such as that many people stop working or join the union because they cannot accept the tournaments that they have submitted. It's a statement that I find very strange, because I think it's like 98-99 pst. of the proposed turns are actually approved, without the need for a very bureaucratic or central decision on it. I think this proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act is going backwards into the future, and I think it is disappointing that this proposal is going to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1883	First of all, I want to say, yes, we have a good law in Norway. We have a good work environment law, which is there to take care of issues in Norwegian working life. But the matter that we now have to deal with, just makes this law even better. The background to having this type of legislation is that we must respect the workers' opportunities and rights, but also the needs of business. This is also about creating jobs, making it easier for those who have fallen outside the profession to return to work — get a foothold within. I think most of us sitting in this room know that the most important thing you can do about a job application is to get a foot inside. It is much easier to find another job at a later stage if you already have a job. This is about giving workers more opportunities. I must say that when I heard the post from the representative Blattmann, who referred to the red book in the back pocket, I was a little uncertain about what sort of red book he had in the back pocket, because that post reminded me of some other red books. But leave it. The issue today is not whether you are going to work anymore, and work several Sundays. The issue is not whether to work even more hours throughout the year. The issue is whether we're going to see the working life we have in front of us and move in now, or whether we're going to live in the past. The issue is whether individual workers and businesses themselves can have greater freedom to agree on the tours they themselves want to participate in. The issue that we have to deal with today is to help more people get into the workplace. It is about flexibility, a flexibility that the workers themselves want. So we've heard that some organizations don't want to give up the power they have when it comes to central recognition of tournaments etc. I think, to be honest, that this must be allowed even more than today to be agreed on in the individual workplace, so that the working time you have, the rotations you have, and the arrangements you have, are arranged according to what you want – and not according to what some others might want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1898	The Tritebergstuen tends to say that the Right uses as an argument that people don't understand. Now the Trettebergstien believes that no one else but she understands. I think it's good, I, that people think about, assess, have the opportunity to change their mind – also politicians. But is it too much to expect people to be able to have the same positions from one week to another? The class struggle a few weeks ago: the Trettebergstuen goes out and tells you to reverse everything. Political quarter of the week: The Trettebergstuen now believes something quite different – now you have to sit down and discuss and find out what you might want to reverse, and what you should not reverse. In the notes, the Labour Party says that they see the need to make changes in age limits – they vote against. Earlier in the debate, Trettebergstien said that none of what we're doing gives more flexibility. No, what's so hard to say that you're going to reverse it? Ingunn Gjerstad, from the Socialist Left Party, said earlier that she thought participation was better than self-determination. Yes, it sums up the social vision of the Socialist Left Party. But then the question is, are we going to move on? Can we rust Norway for the future? – Not if we say that everything should be like today. We have the projections that tell us how it works if we do everything just like we do today. We do not equip Norway for the future if we cannot identify any challenges we face and propose solutions to them. And we're going to do that now. That's what we're doing now by lowering the threshold into working life. That's what we're doing now by decentralizing. Actually, everything doesn't have to be centralized. It's a partnership, also in the workplace, and it works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1907	The reason why I take the floor is a number of obvious things that have been left in the debate, which I just need to underline. It is not right, as has also been claimed by the representative of the Trettebergstuen in her last post, that there is more overtime imposed. What we're talking about is that locally, you can now agree ten hours more overtime on a voluntary basis than today's rule, in a month. Half an hour more per day, each employee, together with his/her chosen trustee, may have the opportunity to agree on more overtime – not a requirement, but an agreement, and within the current legal framework. Take, for example: The shipyard that has a mission, where at the end of the mission you can see that you can go over the time set for delivery and are at risk of getting a day ticket. I think it's great that the employees, along with the management, can make an agreement to work a few more hours in the last month to get to port, to drop daily fines. The option will be a session lease to avoid those daily fines. I expect that it is not the opposition's wish to increase rent. Then I think it makes sense, wise and right to give it half an hour more per day. That's what we're talking about. I am in favour – and I record that there are many in this room who disagree with me – of moving power down locally to the individual employee and to the individual business. I think they're best able to take care of their situation, the business situation, in a good and correct way. I trust them. I think they're the best ones to do it. That is why the government is making these proposals, and we are therefore pleased that these proposals are being adopted. And so it also becomes a little bit historyless with part of the rhetoric that characterizes this pulpit today. Yeah, we've been listening to instances. We have also listened to the Labour Inspectorate, by setting a limit on working no more combined overtime and average calculations than 69 hours per week – which is the rule of the day – but opening up a little more flexibility within this. No more working hours, just to take care of health, the environment and safety in a good and proper way – there is also something I ask you to take over. I also record that the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, the representative Helga Pedersen, indicates that the undersigned has met some people. I meet a lot of people, and I'm going to keep meeting people. I'm going to be sensitive to people. I'm going to include the experiences of the different people in my further work. I record that some people believe that there is an unwise way to do this, and only relate to the management of certain associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1922	The representative, Nesvik, referred to the fact that he wants more people into the labour market. I just want to refer to the government's own Prop. 39 L and the following quotation from the situation description in the legislative proposal: «OECD refers to research indicating that if temporary employment rules are liberalised while maintaining strict protection of fixed employment, employers tend to seek temporary replacement.» In other words, more temporary employment means fewer permanent employees and more temporary employees in general. Then we say, yes, but it's a work environment law that we're debating here today. Very familiar are most people in Norwegian working life very interested in getting a regular job – not a temporary job – with all the benefits of having a regular job. Then I can't wait to say that the red book that I walked around with as a trusted person was not a different book than what it actually was: a very good book that made sure that as a trusted person I could do a good job with my members – make sure that the principles of the Working Environment Act were followed, make sure that people didn't work too much overtime, make sure that the working time regulations were followed up. It's important, and our work environment law is the world's best work environment law. There's no reason to change it -- it's good as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1934	What is really historyless in this debate is that some people believe that a single worker in a workplace is as strong as an employer. Everyone who's been in the world of work knows that it's not like that, and I've been there for 17 years, so I've tried a little bit of each. What is historical here is that workers have understood that if they are to be able to balance this and get their share of the value creation and get laws and rules that allow you to act as workers and family people, and preferably to work at retirement age. It's this community that makes you get the productivity of the most important resource we have in this society, the people, and it's this community that's necessary even when someone is tempted to work late and early and weekend and search and all the time because you're young and strong, and it's fun to work. I learned this from my father, who was a forest worker. He looked at some of those who were younger than themselves, and who blew up all the chords and worked and ruined the hell before they were 30. My father stood as the only forest worker of retirement age, because he realized that he had to take humane care of his working day. No one wants everything to be like before. No, on the contrary, SV has proposals for reinforcements of the Working Environment Act, e.g. to legislate the right to full-time, and there are many things that have to be done differently than before if we're to get well into the future. We have to share more. And then we're going to be more productive. That's also saying that the OECD, we're losing $9 billion. kr per year not to share well enough. We need to strengthen the well-being and working conditions so that fewer people get sick, we need to strengthen it so that more people can get full time, and we need to start limping money from economic crime, which is about to hit our working life and our society. There's a lot to pick up. But it should not be done in the way that the right-hand side now prescribes, which is old-fashioned right-hand policy. It's not modern at all. One of the first things the government did when it came to power was to remove the requirement for healthcare companies to work full-time. Yes, it is an effective act by the government, which eliminates full-time work in the area for which the government is responsible and where you are an employer. So there's nothing to suggest that this government is busy full-time, but there's a lot of evidence that it's busy weakening employees' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1943	It's pretty strong to hear Harald T. Nesvik and representatives from the Right who say here that it's a do, is to help more people get into work and establish a flexibility that employees want, while UNIO and YS protest. Representatives of those parties have probably experienced that UNIO and YS are also protesting, it's not just LO. There are people in this room who have problems with the Landsorganisation. I guess it's a complex that you bring with you from some point of time – at least I don't have it. Why not listen a little to these organizations? They have some shoes on, they also, they're now working on this every day, and it's pretty unisony. Turning the case then until the opposite degrees are reasonably free – that when you get a weaker national law, it becomes more secure! Greater security for whom? Greater security for those who need a law the most? Fortunately, we are different than humans. Some are good footballers; others are good at driving excavators. We have different conditions and positions in the labour market. Every law will be used to protect those who need the most protection of society. I agree that having weak rules is for the benefit of someone. Yes, it is to the benefit of those who have a strong negotiating power in the labour market. Talking about something else is historyless. It breaks with every experience you have in your life because it's a multiplicity, we have a responsibility to make the diverse society work, and we have to give a hand and help those who need it the most. Why does the Progress Party dare to say what it is, why do they not dare to present their basic view of economic liberalism, less power to those who want a well-organized working life, less power to those who are weak in the labour market? What happens is short-sighted, it weakens the Norwegian predominance internationally, it weakens the confidence of the labour force, it becomes more conflicts, it is unfortunate, it breaks with the temperament, which is at least the flag of the Central Party. We're happy to have a community here with SV and the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1952	First I have to say that this representative, and perhaps some other representatives, knows in his stomach that it is a long time since breakfast, and that it may be time for a little lunch, and I think it is a good idea that we should have a new case soon and finish this one. I took the word because the representative Heggelund stated in a previous post that to me «participation» is more important than the word «self-determination», which is a new word that I do not know very well, but as I read in the press release that was published by the government and the supporting party in connection with this law that they had come to an agreement on. I have the good thing to understand completely what this self-destination is, because then one in a way ignores the power relationship that many of us have been talking about is so unequally distributed in today's world of work, and for which we, who support it to have strong protection laws and strong unions, are for – that is, to give more power to workers. But for me, the co-destination is one of the things that is mentioned in the main agreement that regulates organised working life, and that describes how one should benefit from negotiations, how one can resolve disputes, how the groups in the individual enterprise and upwards in the system can become some with each other, and how one can argue with each other when one is not. And for me, the Norwegian model, which Siv Jensen and some other meninges stand a bit in the way of the Norwegian people, is a very important thing to defend, and the co-determination, which regulates the party relationship, is one of the berebels in the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1966	I will not spend much time on the post of the representative Heggelund. The representative of the Trettebergstien has answered carefully already, so I leave it at this point, but it was the Council of State's posts that made me take the floor. It is true that what the Council of State really wanted – first at the hearing, with access to 15 hours imposed overtime for a week, and in the proposal, with 12 hours – has been stopped in the Storting of the Christian People's Party, and what I see as, to say the word, a blessing! However, this does not mean that there is an equivalent relationship between the employee and the employer in a situation where one says that this can be agreed locally. If you believe that, a Norwegian working life knows very badly. This leads to more pressure on the employee in the practical everyday life in which workers and employers live. Otherwise, the opportunities to work more if one is approaching fines on a shipyard are a good example of how flexible today's work environment law is, and that we need that flexibility in the future. What is clear is that employment in Norway is under pressure. We have long seen social dumping in this country, and we have put forward many measures in three different action plans against it, but we can nevertheless see that the unprofessionals are winning, with an estimate of crime, trafficking in human beings and serious conditions in working life, and we can see that it is spreading. That is why we strongly disagree when the government proposes to abolish collective redress. So we're worried about those who are underpaid. We are not so worried that someone will reveal those who are being underpaid. What we think is right is that the employer is exposed. Then we're concerned that those who work as temporary workers should have the same salary as those they work for in the position, so using temporary workers is not a way to save money, but something that can work when it's necessary. That is why we are in order to maintain the principle of non-discrimination. I don't see any reason why we're going to stimulate the vicarbransia to give them the opportunity to pay people less than they're going to substitute for. What disappointed me most is not that the Progress Party has a liberalist policy. Their party leader stood at the national meeting in 2013 and said ten times that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people. We've been prepared for this. We know it from countries that have already implemented liberalist policies. What disappointed me is that former representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen was so ready for the elections: he even called it the ‘work party’ for a period and promised that the proposals now presented would not be implemented. It disappoints us that there was no reason to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1977	I have a little trouble understanding the minority's strong resistance to the fact that older people will be allowed to stand longer in the workplace, and the strong resistance to greater local flexibility. I didn't think the arguments against have been so good, but now, towards the end of the debate, I've realized what this really ends in – this is the big conspiracy: it's Thatcher and Reagan, it's right forces in every country to dismantle the security net. It is, to quote the representative de Ruiter, that one is about to ‘disassemble the Norwegian welfare society’ — no less — by allowing people to agree working time more locally than they can today. It is still claimed on the pulpit that there is so strong unison resistance to the great majority today to be adopted. Firstly, when you ask people in polls, they are positive to more flexible working hours. Secondly, a large number of options have matched a large number of people in this room who have asked for more flexible working hours. Thirdly, the resistance of trade, to which it is referred, is not unison. To the extent that there is some unison resistance, I feel that all the big organizations have been opposed to what is involved in the temporary addition. We'll get back to that. However, when it comes to working hours, and not least when it comes to age limits, there are rather divided views on the employee side. Both representatives, Andersen, have stressed that there is indeed someone in this room who thinks that employees and employers are in a completely equivalent relationship. I haven't heard a single person say that from this pulpit. If that were the case, we wouldn't have had any work environment laws, then it could have been full contract freedom. On the contrary, the fact that a strong work environment law is now in place is a recognition that yes, it is not balanced. But that multiple is busy, is that the equilibrium can also be found locally, where there is a desire for it. And show me the local trade unionists who pop the champagne cork when they get no from the union centrally for their desire for an alternative rotational order. Show me! I think in the light of history this debate will look a little strange. I believe that the changes we are making today – around working hours, around age limits – will prove to be widened not only in this room, but also out there, and eventually also in later accumulation periods. I've been a little hurt to interpret the minority in some other direction through what has been said here today, and I think we're all going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e1989	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Before we move on to case 2, the president will take the rest of the record under case 22, which in the event of an incursion was not referred at the beginning of the meeting. 12th@item: inlistbox Notification for the year 2014 by the Civil Ombudsman (Document 4 Notification for the year 2014 by the Civil Ombudsman’s Prevention Unit against torture and inhumane treatment in the event of detention (Document 4:1 Norwegian fisheries agreements for 2015 and fisheries by agreements in 2013 and 2014 (Report. [[202]] [[203]] [[204]] [[205]] St. 15 Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout top sport (Report. [[206]] St. 16 Rein driftsagnung 2015/2016, and amendments to the State budget 2015 m.m. (Prop. [[207]] 68 S Consent for the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 256/2014 of 12 December 2014 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2010/63/EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes (Prop. [[208]] 71 S Representative proposal by the deposit representatives Liv Signe Navarsete, Kjersti Toppe, Trine Skei Grande, Sveinung Rotevatn, Bård Vegar Solhjell and Karin Andersen that Norway should work for a ban on nuclear weapons (Document 8:72 S [[2014-2015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2041	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, up to 10 minutes of speaking time is proposed to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to six lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2052	We had a good heating in the previous case, and since it went away so quickly, we have plenty of time for this matter. We have now concluded an important debate on how to create greater flexibility for those who are in the labour market and make it easier for those who are already in the labour market to remain in the labour market. But the issue that we now have for treatment is even more important, because it is about how we are going to help people who are now totally or partially out of work, how we are going to make sure that they can also realize their dreams of getting a foot in the world of work and taking advantage of the skills and opportunities they have. Then I think you have to go back a little bit and see what the background is for the government to promote this case, and for we now have a wide majority in this room. There are several hundred thousand people — some claim there are 650 000 people — who are at all times out of work for various reasons. Then we're talking about people who are in working age, and neither I nor the Progress Party think it's like it's black and white, that either is too sick to work at all, or a 100 pst is. fresh. A lot of people have different levels of residual working ability, a lot of people want to work, but they don't get in. The door to work is too much too low and too narrow. Then we, who are in the labour market, have a special responsibility not to pull up the ladder after us – on the contrary, I want us to make sure that we have a ladder that catches everyone. For people are different, people have different needs at different times. For those who are already in work, taking one step down the ladder and perhaps getting a quieter working day can be the solution for them to still be part of the working life instead of falling out completely, while for others who have been out of work because of illness, health may change somewhat so that they may have the opportunity to work more. Then it's important not only to talk about it, but also to give those people the opportunity to get a foot inside, and that's what we're doing today. From all the way back to the disaster reform, it has been a cross-political goal that it should be easier for people to combine work and social security, i.e. if during those periods you are better able to get a job, it should be rewarded. It should be easier to create that combination. Not only does it help to create systems of unfavourable reform that make it easier for people to combine work and social security, but we also have to make sure that the workplaces are there and that people are seen. So I want to start off with the message part in the proposition. We have many tools to get people out of work, but the result has shown that many of the tools do not work optimally – it is shown that there are 650 000 people out of work. Nav is really our most important tool to get people back to work, and it's no secret that Nav has its challenges -- they're too rule-driven and square. I'm very pleased that the government put down the Nav committee that will soon come up with its report, where we can simplify and debureaucratize Nav, so that Nav can be an even better tool for those who need it, and not be perceived as a brake pad. So it's about the action system that we're now simplifying. We make the response system more targeted, because by comparison we ensure that we keep a strong focus on sustainable job creation, temporary wage subsidies and other labour market measures. We also believe it is important that these are priorities for future government budgets. Some of the things we're doing, for example. is that we increase the use of normal working life as labour market measures. We say yes and are pleased with new actors who want to contribute, whether it is social entrepreneurs and others who have new ideas and ideas – that is positive. Another important part of the proposition is about the activity obligation that we're introducing now. The fact that we have to make demands on those who receive social assistance is about taking people seriously and taking people seriously. In all other areas of society, it has consequences if you don't show up. If an employee does not show up at work, one is in most cases paid, and employment may also be affected if it repeats itself. We believe it is important to ensure that people who receive passive benefits such as social assistance actually get up in the morning and make sure to have something meaningful to go to, because if we are not afraid that the longer one has been passive at home and received a passive benefit, the way back to work or to education is even longer. It is important that we ensure that the activity we are demanding is relevant. For some, it may be a simple task, while for others it may be a problem to be treated. For others again, there may be some competence measures. So we need measures that are tailored to the individual. So to what may have created the most debate. It is that we should now open up temporary employment unconditionally. Temporary employment is not new in Norway. We have a lot of temporary employment, and we saw that under the red-green government it spread further, to an even greater extent, even within the public, especially the state sector. We now want to give people who are out of work a foot within, people who were never called in to a job interview – whether it's an immigrant who might have a strange name, whether it's youth, whether it's people with disabilities, whether it's a former drug addict who's now become drug-free, but who has a big hole in the CV. There are often groups that unfortunately many employers are somewhat afraid to hire. Many of these are capable people, but they need to get a foot within and to be allowed to show up, and that's what the government and cooperation parties are doing here today. At the same time, we are aware that regular employment should be the general rule. That's also why we're saying that we're tightening up the famous four-year rule. Under the red-green regime, one could be temporarily employed for four years before one had a claim for a permanent job. Now the general rule is that you are entitled to a permanent job after three years of temporary work. So we make sure – as opposed to the red-green ones – that a faster job can be done. With the new temporary employment scheme, we also provide too many measures to prevent abuse. One is that we say that a max should be able to be temporarily employed in the new scheme for 12 months. Once the 12 months have elapsed, the holding will be quarantined for a further 12 months before being able to hire a new person on a temporary basis. This avoids the use of temporary employment for permanent purposes. So there's been a lot of talk about research. In principle, there is little research into temporary employment in Norway, but we have something. We know how many of the temporary employees actually get a steady job. Two-thirds of those temporarily employed get a permanent job within two years. It's a good example that temporary employment can be a stepping stone to ordinary work, and that's what we want to give people who are currently out of work. Because, like the previous case, when we changed the 1977 Working Environment Act, it modernised, made it more flexible and adapted on 2015, we wouldn't sit still and see that many people who have a burning desire and commitment to getting out of work can't show up. We're now going to give people that opportunity by giving everyone who wants it a foot in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2075	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2078	No research supports government claims that employment increases by increasing the use of temporary employment. On the contrary, the government itself says in its proposition that there can be no proven effect in terms of increasing employment by increasing access to temporary employment. So that's what the government's going to do in its own proposition. The experience from other countries shows the same: there are only more in temporary jobs and fewer in permanent jobs. The OECD has turned around and is no longer recommending to open up, precisely because of the experience from the countries around us. The fact that the government is not research and knowledge-based has shown itself on a case-by-case basis in the last year – it is not alarming. But I find it alarming that the representative Wiborg today continues to claim that this is something you do to help people with disabilities get into working life. They would have asked to be used by the government parties in this way. What is it that the representative Wiborg and the Progress Party have understood that not the FFO, the Disability League, the Young People with Disabilities and these people themselves have understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2085	To take the first part of the question, about research and the representative Anette Trettebergstuen who claims that temporary employment does not have any effect at all. It is very strange that during the eight years of their rule, the Workers' Party chose to have a significant opening for temporary employment and even further opening up in the state sector whose temporary employment is so bad. However, research is clear on the effects it has in Norway: when two out of three temporary employees get a regular job, it shows that this is a stepping stone into the labour market. The research also clearly shows that people who would not have had the opportunity to get a permanent job are now given the opportunity to get a foot within the workplace and have the opportunity to build up their CV. So yes, temporary employment is a springboard, and we've also provided a clear framework, so it's not going to be abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2090	I recommend that the representative of Wiborg and other representatives of the government parties actually read the research that exists, and also to read what the government writes in its own proposition. The springboard effect has a current system, limiting the use of temporary jobs to work of a temporary nature. That's why the transition is so big. The research from the OECD and the experience from the countries around us show that when you open up for general access, it does not continue to be a springboard effect – on the contrary. Is it possible for the representative of Wiborg to mention a single research report or a single body or organisation, with the exception of the employer's side, recommending the increased use of temporary employment, as the government now provides for a general access, to get more people to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2099	First of all, when you talk about the springboard effect: yes, it has a springboard effect. But we also want people to get a steady job earlier than the Workers' Party has obviously wanted. While the Labour Party thought it was okay to be temporarily employed for four years, we say that there are three years to be the general rule. In the new system we are now introducing, we are setting a limit of twelve months. I think it is very strange then to get criticism of the Workers' Party, all the time they think it is okay to be temporarily employed for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2104	We're beginning to understand that temporary employment is the answer. That's the good answer for all the people who have trouble getting a leg inside, as it's called, in the workplace. But then the majority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, write in their position: ‘The majority refer to high unemployment in European countries with low flexible labour markets.’ Which countries have little flexible labour markets and are struggling with a high level of unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2116	As I was in my main post, it is often difficult to compare countries in several areas because there are different laws from one country to another. I record that Lundtigen believes that the government parties say that temporary employment is the answer to all possible questions, but we have at least one answer. The medicine for Lundtigen and the red-green batches has been tested, and it resulted in 650 000 people in pre-employment who were out of work. I find it a little strange that you should close your eyes to it and therefore reject any other proposal that comes, and at least when the research itself from Norway shows that two out of three temporary employees get a permanent job within two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2121	Flexibility has continued to be seen in the context of an increase in the proportion of temporary employment. In order to try to facilitate this flexibility as a solution, a European country with low flexible working time rules has a high level of unemployment. So there's a lot of free time and little flexibility. I expect the faction leader from the Progress Party knows which country you think when you write it? I guess that really means something.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2127	Yes, there are several examples. You can take, for example: Spain, which has a very strict protection against dismissal. There you see the challenge for many young people who don't get in and don't get the opportunity to get a regular job. That is why we want a flexible working life here in Norway, where everyone should have the opportunity to try out, where people will have the opportunity to get a foot within, but that fixed employment should be the general rule, and also that fixed employment should be required more quickly than Lundtigen had previously wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2132	The speech for outreach in Norway is that we have heard much lower than in countries that have seen temporary additions to systems, for example. Spain has done so without the need for youth unemployment. My hairdressing friend in a wheelchair – he depends on wheelchairs to work – send me a message here instead: I don't want to be pushed into this case. Does the representative Wiborg believe that more employers will tear down the walls, build disability toilets and facilitate more temporary additions, like my hairdresser, than is currently the case in individual workplaces, despite large-scale Nav support schemes? What makes Wiborg believe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2139	I think this was a good example of the benefit of our cleaning up and simplifying the response system. We're betting, for example. to increase the use of wage subsidies in ordinary enterprises, such as: will make it easier for an enterprise to employ a person with disabilities, who may have some other challenges than a health-care worker. So that's a good example of an employee who will benefit from the changes we're making now. But as I said, it's about too many, it's that they have an alternative – it's not a job. That is the result today: people who want to get a job, but no employer dares to try to hire them. We now give them the opportunity to get a foot within, as we think it's better to have a foot within than no feet within.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2146	Today there is six months of probation in the law. Half a year's probationary period, in many ways, provides an opportunity for employers to test whether or not the employee is fit for the work in which he is assigned, but it requires the employer to take responsibility for following up on how he or she learns things and can continue. Vibeke Madsen, Director of Operation, said to Class Battle on 23 September last year: ‘The problem with this is that when a probationary period is used, the employer has to go through the cancellation process. For many employers there is nothing pleasant. That's why we want a general access to temporary employment." What does the representative, Wiborg, think about the needs of employers here? Is it perhaps as important as the concern of those with disabilities to respond to this discomfort in working life processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2158	There are two main reasons for introducing general access to temporary employment. One is for business purposes. This will make it easier for companies that might want to expand, who want to bet even more – which can generate even more fixed jobs. We want to give them an opportunity to test whether the market is there to expand, so that one gets more fixed jobs. The other reason I've been good at is that it's giving people who are out of work a foot within. But I have to say, it's a little weird when the Socialist Left Party believes that everything is good now with today's system. Today's system of temporary employment is perfect, according to the Socialist Left Party. But what I think is strange is, why is there 650 000 people in the pre-employment age outside of work? Why are we at the top of the OECD when it comes to people outside the world of work, if today's system is so perfect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2165	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2168	The debate we have today shows that there are major differences between the right- and left-hand sides of the Norwegian policy on what kind of work we want and what we want to do to include more people in the labour market. The debate clearly tells us that labour law is not high in stone, but written on paper, which means that more than a hundred years of political struggle for employee rights can be weakened by a pen stroke. Today's debate is divided into two. We have Prop. 48 L about how to pour more juice out of the lemon for those who are already at work, and then we have Prop. 39 L, where temporary additions are camouflaged as a labour market measure. I'm not going to comment on everything in ten minutes. The conflict theme temporary additions will bring the Workers' Party back to other posts, some of which we have already recorded. First of all, I want to spend my time on what's gone by a lot of houses, that's Prop. 39 L also contains 75 pages of government's labour market policy. It's pretty toothless to hide him this way, and there might be something disrespectful to all those who are concerned about labour market policy, especially when we think that one of the first Robert Eriksson's first councillors, was to withdraw our big-time message about more people at work. The reason for this would be that within a short time the government would deliver a corresponding message, only more ambitious and with more concrete measures. It has taken more than one year for the government to deliver a communication on labour market policy, and I must say that we are no longer impressed by the level of ambition presented. It can't be the government either. Since she has been combined with the perhaps most mentioned and significant work situation in 2015, the changes in the work environment law, there is a lot of evidence that the Council of State might prefer this to be overlooked in silence, including in the Stortinget. Rarely has the expression ‘up as a lion and down as a skin skin’ fit better. The Labour Party believes that it is unfortunate and critical that labour market policy does not get a comprehensive and independent review, nor does it help that the communication between the government and the groups that need labour market policy most and their organisations is too bad in this process. The representatives of the government are very concerned about the number of people outside and within the labour market. It's in itself commendable, but for years they've been out with the claim of a so-called outreach, and that Norway is apparently the frame of an unpremeditated explosion. They're trying to create an image of the number of unfinished paths in uncontrolled forms, and that more and more people don't participate in the well-being state. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, the employment figure for the Right in the previous period, liked to talk about the fact that there has been a bomb under the welfare state. Robert Eriksson said that our government was transporting people away from work and into social security, and that we were camouflaging unemployment. The arguments have now been inherited from the representatives Heggelund, Wiborg and Rotevatn, who each have the most right as a walking Civita lecture. But their problem is that the whole outreach is highly misleading, because it's just a combination of all people who, at a given time, receive either sick money, social assistance, redundancy money and disability, or are unemployed. The concept is ideologically designed, and it creates a wrong and confusing impression of how important it is to insert the extra inclusion input. Statistics show that the world is at odds with the rightmost part of the world in many ways. If we compare the number of disabled people with the number of people employed, the ratio is completely stable over the last ten years. The number of uninformed increases is now at the lowest level since the first IA agreement was signed in 2001. Yes, we have major challenges in the labour market. Yes, there are too many people with residual working capacity or disabilities that we can't include today. And for many people who could have worked full time, they only work part-time. But the description of an alleged outsidership with which the right party comes is only grossly misleading. And there's something special to try to represent the greatest success of the welfare state as the biggest problem. The fact that people have security even if they fall outside the labour market is fundamentally positive. We also see this in employment and participation, which is among the highest in the world in Norway. But it is also such that a lot of people want to work without getting it. It may be related to relationships with individuals, such as lack of qualifications or the need for organisation as a result of health or social problems. We also rely on a working life that is willing to assign people with insecure or impaired working skills. Therefore, it is good that the government in this message continues our line that more of the redundancy work should be done in the ordinary working life. This often has a better impact on the transition to work. Another thing we can be quite specific about is that we have good experience with the use of wage increases, and the Labour Party is – with just enough of a few remaining – positive to expand that kind of arrangement. However, we are sceptical about merging and postponing action. Some of this has already been done, and the way the government overrun the Size change last year is not an example for follow-up. It is also interesting that when the Council of State was in opposition, he clearly stated that this field is not suitable for outsourcing, so that, at first instance, the Council of State chair should be set up to compete with important labour market measures. In this case, the Workers' Party is a few people with grossing up representatives Eriksson and not the Council of State Eriksson. The challenges in the labour market cannot be solved only by changing the structure and composition of measures – and at least not by even more competitive exposure. The level of action has to be raised, and we'll follow closely to the government's budget to see if they'll keep what they promise. For the time being, it's not all the world to jump on the roof, which is otherwise interesting, since the Council of State Eriksson has overbid everything and everyone in this field for eight years in opposition, and then he comes into government and may become in particular the Council of State that subdues the most in all areas. The challenge is otherwise that this message is thin. There is a lot of text, but there is not enough content. Actions described here – if any – will primarily benefit those who have the shortest way to get to work. Those who stand further away from the world of work will be able to make little use of what is proposed here. So I want to say a little bit about the obligation of activity for social assistance. Our starting point is that everyone should do their duty and claim their right, in that order. All shall contribute to their ability to get into work and activity, but the community and the welfare state shall contribute to the ability of people in a difficult and vulnerable situation to live decently and not be thrown into the streets. At present, there are already opportunities to impose conditions on people receiving social assistance, where appropriate. It is important to bear in mind that the majority of the beneficiaries have a very temporary and transitory need for social assistance, and the aim of imposing conditions must be to help people get out of a difficult life situation and to strengthen their chances of getting out of work. It is particularly important for young people, and therefore they are most often subject to conditions today. We believe that today's law, with the best use of activity requirements, works well and is entirely in line with the intention of the Nav reform that all human beings and their situations are different, and that the solutions to get into work and activity are therefore also different and must be adapted to the individual and his or her history, challenges and capacity. I would also like to point out that the municipalities themselves believe that this law is sufficient today when it concerns the possibility of making demands. The government's proposal to use the activity obligation in any case may be counterproductive. It will be bureaucratic, and it will be precious for the municipalities. We go against the proposal and think the government should have followed up the Stoltenberg government's work to ensure that all municipalities have resources and opportunities to use the obligation of activity where appropriate. It would make more sense than this proposal we are dealing with today, which may be asking first and foremost for a government that needs to be tough in the pinch. Finally, I would like to comment on the question of the new form of the addendum, which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are dealing with in the committee position. So-called fixed addition without a guaranteed wage, with which the crew industry operates, is an indiscretion in Norwegian working life. There is nothing but camouflage of repeated temporary additions, and in reality such a worker is no stronger than a ringwager. We believe that there is a need for tightening and clarification from collapse and government because this practice challenges the objective paragraph of the Work Environment Act on safe conditions of addition. We found it regrettable that no joint committee could support this challenge image. With that, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, the Committee and the Committee Secretary for the thorough consideration of these important issues of working life, and I would like to take up the suggestions on which the Labour Party is voting. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. Four, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2206	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2211	I expect the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal to agree with me that one of the biggest differences in Norway today is between those who have a job and those who are out of work and want to enter. It is a fact that when you have fallen out of work and have got some holes in the CV that you have to answer for, or if you have not been in work and have no practices or references to refer to, the job application is often put at the bottom of the pile – the employer dares not bet on you. Why is the Workers' Party so negative to open up temporary employment for a limited period of quarantine, when the option is not fixed employment, but temporary employment and the possibility of showing up, or no employment? This is the case for many of those who are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2220	I register that the representative is not interested in talking about the labour market message. The government is only interested in talking about temporary additions. There is certainly one reason for this – either that you want the actions of the message to be ignored in silence, I can understand that, or that a sincere believe that temporary additions will help people into working life. The latter has been rejected repeatedly, even by the department itself in the proposal of the Stortinget. Temporary insertion is not a labour market measure; it is an ideological liberalisation and a weakening of labour law that benefits no one but employers. This is not working, it is no longer in job. The government, in the name of propriety, should have managed to deliver a better labour market policy than the Stortinget presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2227	The representative is wrong. We are also interested in the reporting part and the working life policy, and I'm a little curious about what ambitions and innovations the Workers' Party has in including more of those who are struggling, so that they can get a foot within the working life. I experience a very waiting attitude – there are a lot of words and little action. Everything is fine as it is, we don't have to change anything, and it only refers to previous action plans and previous messages from when the party was in government. In the case of disabled people, only 43 pst is still. in working life, against 75 pst. in the population as a whole. There has been no positive development in the last ten years, and in eight of them the red-green government was responsible. What new approach does the Labour Party take with regard to bringing more disabled people into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2235	If the representative was so interested in what we stand for in labour market policy, she could have read a little more in the big message of our Several working. But unfortunately the government has withdrawn her. But I can draw a short summary. We are very much in order to further develop what was, and is, our policy: more use of reintroduction in ordinary activities, more use of wage increases, more and better labour market measures, stronger job strategy, youth guarantee, a more active competence policy, increased commitment to prevention – because we know that it works. Temporary additions do not affect the employment level. Those who are at the back of the line with today's rules will continue to stand at the back of the line with the government code. The only difference is that in the future, those who stand at the forefront will be temporarily set aside instead of fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2242	My question is about duty of activity. In this debate and in the previous one, there was a lot of talk about research. The health centre has quite unequivocally stated that getting young social welfare beneficiaries up in the morning has a significant impact. I also record that the comments of the Workers' Party on the obligation of activity – you also repeat it from the pulpit today – say: Do your duty, demand your right. There is something the Progress Party fully agrees with, but the challenge is that when it comes to practical policy, the Labour Party's policy is: Need your right, do your duty – if you want. I think it's a strange follow-up to what former labour minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, because he was quite clear that people were going up in the morning, and that you were going to give people a meaningful offer to stand up to. What really is the reason why the Workers' Party believes that young people should not have a claim to get up in the morning and have something meaningful to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2249	We think today's legislation works very well. It is fully possible to set requirements where appropriate. The government's proposal thus opens doors, as they propose something that it is entirely possible to do today. Other things are that the proposal presented by the government is essentially distrusted of Norwegian municipalities and the Nav office, because one does not believe that they are doing the best they can. And those to whom it is not appropriate today to make demands need significantly more than a sweeping meal and a turn-off to get back to work. They need a much more active inclusion policy than setting inappropriate requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2256	I think that was an interesting answer, because that's really the same answer we get to all the questions we ask the Labour Party about employment policy, that everything is perfect, no change is needed, no new thoughts are needed. The fact that there are 650 000 people in working life outside the labour force is clearly not something that should be put in place to remedy the situation. Because when we see the increase in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance, when we see the increase in the number of young beneficiaries of social assistance, and when we see the number of young people who come through social assistance, it shows that today's system has not worked. Then is my simple question to Fredric Holen Bjørdal: Does it mean that the Workers' Party is now in disagreement with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who agrees with what the government is proposing, and which the Storting will adopt today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2265	I have to repeat what I said instead: the working party is to make demands on social welfare recipients where appropriate. That's why it's possible in the legislation today. It is not appropriate to set requirements very often. Then we have to have more tools to use and more strings to play on, and then we have to have an active inclusion policy, which I record that the Progress Party is very often involved in countering, for example. in the case of the Youth Guarantee, against which the Government Party is opposed, and in the case of the Qualification Programme – which is a very good and better alternative than making demands on social assistance beneficiaries – where activity actually pays off. The Progress Party would have nothing to do with it, and therefore they voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2270	I would like to thank the representative Holen Bjørdal for a good contribution, for at least when one takes away the rhetoric and criticism of the Christian People's Party, it was very good. As the representative pointed out, perhaps some of the most important Biggest is discussing and working with today, how to include more people in the workplace. I have read through the Workers' Party's comments and will say that it is very good there, and as far as I am aware, the Workers' Party will support all the changes in the action area regarding the message part. I have also read the message – which the government in its time drew – that came in autumn 2013. I was disappointed that it was being pulled, and my criticism was that something had to happen. That's why I was pleased with what came from the government, because I felt it was finally action, not just investigations and fine words, for my experience under the red-green government was enough that something hardly happened. So when something finally happens, I think it's good. But to challenge the Workers' Party: What are the visions further to include more in the labour market? What measures are missing from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2281	The Labour Party should not shoot down everything in its government message. There are a number of things that we can be a few about, for example. the continuation of our line with more use of redundancy in ordinary activities and also the use of wage increases. There's two of the things that we want to be involved in development. There is no doubt that we are forced to pursue an active inclusion policy with a broad front, and I think we in the Labour Party have shown quite clearly in Stortinget that we have ambitions. Only in the last year have we made a whole series of suggestions, for example: proposals to fight against violence in close relationships, we launched a professional initiative, we launched a strategy for people with reduced working capacity, and in recent years in government, we came up with a follow-up plan for work and mental health. And we can't say that we feel that we're getting so much drag from the government in these areas, which this debate is a very good example of, where everything is going to be about temporary additions, which are not a labour market measure, but which, on the contrary, makes it easier to push people out of the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2288	If I was going to go to the representative Bjørdal's level, I might call him a walking LO lecture, but I actually thought that kind of rhetoric fits better in a schoolroom than the storeroom. There are not so many points the Labour Party agrees with in this setting, but at one point a change has occurred. The Labour Party has gone away from its old position that the four-year rule is sacred. First of all, I have to say that this reverse operation is very enjoyable, but the timing strikes me as a little bit strange, because the Labour Party's new position was only known after the four non-socialist parties became aware of a plural position. From the left side, we have not registered that the Labour Party has meant this at any time before 19 March. Of course, we are very pleased with the Workers' Party's turnaround, but what might have been interesting to the right is why the representative Holen Bjørdal and his party have come to realize that their previous position was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2295	Thank you for the question. The working party's position is that we want less use of temporary settings. We already announced in our 2012 employment message that it was time to change the four-year rule, but we thought that the government party and the Left and Christian People's Party have come up and will now be in favour of – this three-year/four-year rule – is a quite messy agreement, which is difficult to understand, practice and enforce. The Labour Party believes that we must have one rule for all – either four years or three years. We go in for three years and record that we have support for it from both the Unio, the LO and the Academics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2300	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2303	The cooperation parties are working to include more people in the labour market. The proposals contained in this Communication are part of a comprehensive effort to increase employment and a more inclusive and more flexible working life. For the right, there is a connection between a good school, good growth conditions, a competitive business and a working life for everyone. That is why the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have made good government budgets together that have equipped Norway for the future. I'm very pleased that today we have a broad majority in the Biggest. In spite of the fact that the representative Holen Bjørdal later believes that the Workers' Party has a different policy, the government is almost completely in favour of all the measures proposed in the labour market policy. But as I have read the committee position, the Labour Party will vote in favour of all the proposals proposed by the government parties as a new labour market policy. I'm happy about that. I am also very pleased that we have a broad majority of companies that ensure greater flexibility in the future, which lowers the threshold for entering the labour market, which increases the flexibility of those who are in the labour market and which makes it easier for young people, immigrants and people with disabilities to get jobs, either through temporary employment or by using the new Nav measures that are now more adapted to the need. We have proposed a number of measures that are individually very good, but in the context will work very well to achieve the objectives set by this government: We are simplifying and improving the Nav measures, which receive great support. We introduce a statutory activity obligation for social welfare recipients. We lower the threshold for entering the labour market by having a general access to temporary employment in addition to today's provisions. Too many people are out of work. Many have done so for a long time, and they have done so at a time when the work force has never really improved. Norway has thus distinguished itself from having many people in work, but also a very high proportion of the population outside the labour force. Skewing governments, especially the red-greens in the last eight years, have not achieved results that the Stortinget should have demanded. People have gone into and out of benefits and into and out of action in Nav without having ended up permanently in the world of work. That's why this government is doing something about this and has high objectives. In our view, temporary employment will give more opportunities – more people will have a first chance, and more people will go from temporary pay to temporary Nav measures with reduced pay to normal full-time jobs. The proposition repeats the rule that fixed employment should be the general rule. That's why we say that when we still introduce a general access to temporary employment, this product should last for 12 months, and we introduce a fraction where one can have a maximum of 15 pst. the number of employees per enterprise and the fraction shall be rounded up to make it easy to calculate. This means that enterprises with fewer than six employees may have one temporary employee, enterprises with between 7 and 13 employees may have two temporary employees, enterprises with between 14 and 20 employees may have three, and enterprises with between 21 and 26 employees may have four, etc. So we've put a constraint on the end of the term. Then, of course, the employer will be free to either hire the temporary employee permanently, combine it with some of the other defined measures in respect of temporary employment – which I understand a unanimous increase supports – or choose not to renew the employment and thus have one year's quarantine for new temporary employment. And then there's a little bit less flexibility in calculating averages for this type of employment. Many of the projects in Norwegian business today are covered by the four-year rule. That seems important to the government, for many of the projects last more than three years, some of them even last more than four years. That's why it's important for the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left to make sure that, for example. The shipbuilding industry and others are given the framework conditions with which they can live. That is why we maintain the four-year rule for projects, as we have today. When, for example: in the case of vicariates, one letter, it becomes a three-year rule. There is something the government proposes together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The statistics we use in Norwegian working life are: half of those who are temporarily employed are in permanent employment after one year and two thirds after two years. In addition, in comments and in a second majority, we have made sure that there is an evaluation and that the supervision of the law should be with the Labour Inspectorate. Much of the labour market policy has traditionally been geared towards the supply side, for example: by training and qualification of the unemployed and persons with disabilities. It shall remain an important part of labour market policy, but it should be more closely combined with normal working life than under the previous government. In order to achieve this, we believe that employers need to be motivated to employ more vulnerable groups, and we do so with a number of measures – temporary employment, but not least as an important part of the strategy to increase the use of ordinary working life, the government wants to facilitate access to the use of ordinary wage subsidies. Action in labour market policy needs to be better, more targeted and significantly more effective. Therefore, the government wants to contribute to better organisation of work for jobseekers with special needs. A new and simpler inclusion grant for ordinary work is introduced. In addition, more binding organisation and follow-up agreements will be established between the Nav, the employer and the jobseeker. Labour market measures shall be improved and simplified in this Communication. The combination of overlapping labour market measures is becoming more seamless. It is possible to change measures without asking Nav – that the management company together with the employee will have the opportunity to find out instead of going through a major bureaucracy. Many of the changes we are making will promote the use of ordinary work as the action arena and a well-functioning labour market. In order to determine how the labour force can best be put into service in the coming decades, the government has reduced a sample to assess the overall working time regulation and its practice. The Working Time Committee and the government's sample to review the Civil Service Act are now in operation. Part of the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left is that the Civil Service Committee is given a new mandate where one should also look at reducing temporaryity in the state. It has chosen the red-greens for eight years to ignore. This government is now doing something about it. The Nav selection comes after Easter. It's going to further contribute to us reaching the users that Nav is going to reach. At least the introduction of new disability benefits, which have now lasted a few months, shall facilitate the combination of disability benefits with work. This, together with a statutory activity obligation for social assistance recipients, will mean that more people will ask for a job – either full job, half job or further reduced position. We then aim to ensure that the instrument is clear, that businesses have tools – either with Nav grants or that they have access to temporary employment in general. Because passivity is not good, being met with demands is good. Both municipalities, management companies and social entrepreneurs are ready. Some municipalities today have their own decisions – based on volunteering – and a majority of bourgeoisly governed municipalities have chosen to do so. We believe that it is such a good policy that all municipalities should do so, primarily for the sake of the individual human being, which today is not met with the requirements that are needed to get them over the doorstep. I am pleased that there is broad support for the Government's proposals for amendments. We get a law that equips Norwegian working life for the future. I am sure that when you see that our proposals work, the connection is going to be considerably larger than we have seen so far. I would like to congratulate the Committee on Good Cooperation in the late month of the Committee's political discussion, and I would like to thank the Committee Secretary Berit Skovly and Senior Consultant Ingunn Opsahl Viered.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2357	The government system of permanent work is designed to enable people with severe health problems or developmental disabilities to participate in the labour market. Now the government says in several propositions that they consider giving the municipalities responsibility for this scheme. Victor D. Norman strongly opposes this proposal, and NTB quotes him as follows: ‘Development-disabled persons and others in need of assistance will again end up at the bottom of the table and risk that the more sunny right of all others to work will no longer apply to them. There is only one word for this – discrimination.’ My representative, Kambe, that the former right-wing council Victor D. Norman is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2367	Lastingly organized jobs, VTA, are a fantastic offer that I am very happy to have great excitement from all parties in Stortinget. For us, this is about giving people a meaningful working day, while producing something that others want to buy. It's important to us. Today, this is largely municipal enterprises from before. They're mostly intermunicipal, if they're not purely municipal, and maybe sometimes the county councils have some points. For us, it is important that in the context of the proposal for a new municipal structure that is now promoted by the government, many proposals on what to enter into larger municipalities are considered in comparison with today. If VTA is one of them, it is a decision and an assessment that must come through Stortinget, but if the Workers' Party has already concluded that it does not want larger municipalities to have VTA, we take it with us in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2372	There is every reason to question the level of ambition of the government party in that labour market policy message. The most important measure is temporary additions. Temporary additions are rejected by all research and professional advice. No one can show more temporary jobs, just giving more temporary jobs. When does the representative intend to admit that this message that has been delivered is primarily to camouflage a weakening of the work environment law by producing temporary settings as a labour market measure, which is not at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2377	Over eight red-green years, hundreds of thousands of people were kept out of work and were unable to clean up the NAV system. That is what this government is doing in this matter and in connection with the NAV committee that is coming soon. We're going to use a completely different package of measures to give people the opportunity to get into the world of work. It completely ignores the Workers' Party. So it's interesting to see that it's a good stomach job, in my opinion, in terms of the Labour Party's labour market policy. Not in one single area of the case does the Workers' Party have a single independent proposal. It seems that you can be critical of what the government is proposing, but you do not vote against what the government is proposing, and as I see it, there are no concrete proposals that go in a different direction than what the government is proposing. So when it comes to the beginning of the question, I say a thousand thanks to the Workers' Party for the support. We have a good labour market policy that will help bring more people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2384	I am glad that the government says that many people are going out and out of benefits on Nav. That the government has high objectives on this, I am very pleased. When it comes to instruments, the representative says that one should simplify, one should have a legal obligation for social assistance recipients. The representative probably did not refer to the salary subsidy, because it states that ‘should be used to a greater extent’, and it is then exciting to see whether this ‘to a greater extent’ produces the necessary effects. But the main concept of government is temporary employment. The government is no longer talking about fixed employment giving opportunities for six months of probation, and that's temporary. The NHO has asked it, they've asked people who take off temporary education: have you been temporarily employed? 44 pst. responds yes, 55 pst. answers no. What is the Right objective in that matter? Let's do it from 44 pst. to over 50 pst., or what is the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2391	It is good to record that the representative Lundtigen shares our view that we have clear, ambitious goals of getting more people into the labour market. That's what the government is going to deliver on, we promised the voters, and that's why we're doing it. In terms of temporaryity, it's a fact that for us temporary employment is not a goal in itself, it's an instrument, and I believe that for eight red-green years, the Center Party has been involved in trying something more of it, we would actually not have had such miserable results in terms of people outside the labour market – as Per Olaf Lundtigen has been a representative for the eight years. That is why we are trying new measures. We're trying a number of measures to merge the Nav actions, and then we came up with the obligation to do business, and then we came up with increased access to temporary employment. But the most important measure is to have competitive companies that have the opportunity to create new jobs, and that gives this government every day from the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2398	Nevertheless, the situation in Norway is that many more have been away in temporary employment than most are aware of. I was surprised that 44 pst. Of those who responded to the NHO study, they said they had temporary employment, and then we don't talk about it in education. So it's very common today. The representative, Mr. Kambe, must agree that the government is adding up, is that there will be an increase in the amount of temporary employment, while the government says that fixed employment should be the general rule. When is it going to happen that fixed-term employment is no longer the general rule in relation to temporary employment? What's the percent?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2405	The report – or statistics – to which the representative Lundtigen referred, from the NHO, shows that too many people are temporarily employed at the beginning of their professional life – or, after a break from their professional life, a stepping stone to get the job that you are going to do. Statistics in Norway show that half of those temporarily employed are in full employment only one year afterwards — in the same job they were temporarily employed in. This means that good interaction between companies, employees and trade unions helps you to want the best. Regardless of whether it is a fixed position or a temporary position, it is essentially in the hands of an enterprise that sees a need, sees a market, and needs to increase manning, and is doing well, he is allowed to continue. There we all have a common interest. I don't think it's a fraction that decides this. The most important thing for us is that more people go out of work, that more people go out of Nav, and that more people get into regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2410	Several have expressed concerns about the impact of the changes in the Work Environment Act on equality, including the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. A few weeks ago, the Ombudsman submitted a study showing that 55 pst. of all women and 22 pst. all men have experienced discrimination one or more times in their working life related to pregnancy or parental leave, i.e. it is clearly demonstrated by a wide-ranging study that discrimination related to pregnancy is already a major problem in today's working life with today's legislation. My question is, how does the representative Kambe think temporary posts will affect such a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2417	I believe that a total increase in numbers means that discriminating against people based on sex or sexuality – or by helping to get more people into Norway through pregnancy – is not allowed. This is not allowed to ask for a job interview, nor will it be allowed not to hire or fire people based on those conditions. I think everyone in the Greatest agrees. In my opinion, as far as temporary employment is concerned versus fixed-term employment is concerned, it has a neutral meaning, for the same legislation will apply to it. I would like to listen to good measures to limit what someone is concerned about when it comes to temporary employment. I think first of all it's important to get people to work, and then we'll have to do it gradually. I would like to hear from SV – if they have any good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2427	The big question is which treatment pregnant people will receive with a temporary contract. What will happen if you are in a situation where your stomach is growing and your term is approaching, while the date of a temporary contract is running out? What will happen to the pregnancy situation? That's what's the big question here. Is it the case that we are creating a working life where pregnant women are at risk of not getting a new contract and not being guaranteed a permanent position because they are temporarily employed? Is it the case that employers should not be able to extend a contract or give a permanent job because they are pregnant? As far as I have seen, there is no protection against it in today's law, nor in the attempts at shielding that the government has put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2432	The red-green government did not add up to any changes there. Nor does SV have a proposal in connection with the Working Environment Act for a paragraph there or a note, as I have seen, and no proposal on it today. I think we have to admit that this is in today's working life. It has to be solved with the laws we already have today. In the case of temporary or non-temporary workers for 12 months, regardless of whether they are pregnant or not, it is up to the employer after that period either to extend it or to provide a permanent employment. For us, it is important that everyone should have equal opportunities in the workplace. And when it comes to the problem that SV outlines, I wonder that SV does not have any suggestions or comments on this under its own chapter in the setting of the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2440	It was not quite surprising that what gets the most attention in the debate here too is temporary employment. That's why I want to start my post with what I think is most important, including in the workplace. Good jobs that include as much as possible are the common goal we have. That's the most important thing we can do. That means that you have to get hold of those on your way out, and that means that you have to make arrangements to help people who have fallen out, come back, or help those who have never come in. The inclusion grant is something I hope can help you to be willing to hire people who need to adapt to the workplace, or to use it to prevent some people from leaving the workplace. But we also need to strive for better ordering skills at Nav, so that a person gets the right action for those people who need help to get back. One must have better skills and better performance in the back-up industry, in the labour market enterprises, so that one ensures that even more people come back to work. One must have a few shorter waiting hours, one must have more seamless measures and one must make greater use of normal working life, so that we succeed in getting people to work for themselves at the end of the day. That is why I am pleased with the simplification that we are about to adopt today – not the simplification itself, but a simplification that makes it easier for those people who come into action to adapt to the action they are already in, without having to wait for a new one. I am pleased that the Stortinget now determines that we want to step up the number of action areas, because we see that there are so many people with reduced working capacity who need help to get back. I'm glad that one has also decided that one should get statistics on waiting times, so that a lot of time can measure how long it actually takes before one gets the help you need, and to be able to reduce the waiting time. I am pleased that we are in favour of increasing the use of both temporary and non-temporal wage subsidies, that one increases the compensation there, so that one hopefully also manages to facilitate that more people can get a foot in the workplace. We believe, and the Workers' Party and the minority point it out in their comments, that there is also an important balance there. Neither do we want to facilitate the fact that the companies choose to wait for the jobs for which they can receive a wage subsidy instead of employing people without a salary subsidy. None of us want to, so that's where we expect the department to follow closely. Then I am pleased that in our own decision, we state that the new measure on work-preparation training should be a priority measure, that it should be a core measure for people with disabilities. Regardless of all the discussions we have, there is a group of people who need extra help, and that priority is to be given. For temporary employment: the Christian People's Party wants to harmonise the legislation of the Working Environment Act with the Civil Service Act to tighten up the Civil Service Act and also to do something about it in the Working Environment Act – in the private and municipal sectors. The result of the negotiations with the government parties was that we were in favour of a general access to temporary employment, but with strong restrictions. It is only possible to hire for 12 months and, if one chooses not to extend the contract, it becomes a quarantine. This may simply mean that when the employer is more pressured to make a choice after 12 months, more people can come in more quickly and get a permanent job. And if they don't want to extend the contract, that means they get a quarantine in a year. In addition, there's also an allowance of one or 15 pst, which also makes me think there won't be any abuse. We are very happy that we finally got a pass to tighten up the time it takes for a person to get a right to permanent employment. The four-year rule is a three-year rule. It's a historic decision. If you're talking about strengthening employees' rights, at least this is part of it. In addition, we need more research in the field because it is relevant, and that is important. It is not necessarily that you can compare all international research with what is happening in Norway. We have also said that we want an evaluation because our main objective is to help more people in such a way that the total number of people employed is increasing, not that one increases the proportion who is temporarily employed. There are also strong leads in the field of the Civil Service Act. The fact that one ensures that the most temporary sector will reduce their use is also important for the Christian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2469	There is a lot in what the representative Ropstad said in his post that I can say I agree with. The questions may be more about what I do not fully agree with. The representative Ropstad mentioned this with inclusion in the working life. During the general strike, the leader of the Christian People's Party held an appeal that the party should oppose general access to temporary employment. The agreements on the civil side now show the opposite. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party has now also accepted the government’s claim that universal access to temporary employment will give more jobs to people with disabilities – contrary to what the disabled person’s own organisations say?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2476	I'm probably still skeptical about whether it'll lead to it, but at the same time it's exactly what we're going to evaluate, and see if it actually gives an input. As I emphasized in my post, I think it's those who are closer to working life who get temporary employment. Those who are longer away from work need other types of measures to be helped in, I think. But there is no doubt that it is good to be able to get a foot within – get permission to try out temporarily. For example: people with disabilities, immigrants and other groups who have struggled to get their feet inside, I think they show that they are skilled workers when they get to try out. So in that sense, I think it'll help, to make sure that more people also end up with permanent employment in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2481	The Labour Party has received many questions here today about what we are going to reverse when we come to power again in 2017. I want to ask the same question to the Christian People's Party. If it were to be found that the rights of disabled people’s organisations were to be granted, it would appear that extensive use of temporary jobs would have the same consequences in Norway as it has been found to have in other countries, among others. Sweden, will the Christian People's Party join in a reversal of what they now share in adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2486	Yeah, I'll be in on that. My goal – or total of – what we are adopting today is to ensure that more people are included in the labour market. When you look at the intrusions that we send out that we want in the Civil Service Act, you know that 11-12 pst. of the temporary units in the public sector, against approx. 6 pst. in the private sector, and in higher education and research, I think the proportion is up to 20 pst. – that is where we want a reduction. The reason why we say yes to what goes on general access is the obvious constraints that lie there, and also what is in the three-year rule. However, if it turns out that instead of increasing the number of persons employed, the proportion increases only temporarily and reduces the proportion of persons permanently, we have not succeeded in the grip. If the evaluation thus shows that this did not work, I have no record of it, and I am not afraid to reverse it and bet on anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2493	I noticed that Ropstad in his post was pleased with the three-year rule, which sets the limit of temporaryity. But I also noticed that Ropstad mentioned the three-year rule in very general terms and did not pay much attention to the fact that with the proposal from the government parties and the supporting parties, we actually get a four-year rule for some and a three-year rule for all. After all, the Labour Party – together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – has now proposed a three-year rule for all. Is the Christian People's Party already ready to support that proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2500	We've fixed a two-year rule, so actually I should have suggested it. No, it's that we have an agreement with the government parties and with the left. We are very pleased that we managed to rich what seemed to be a sacred rule, four years. That is why we consider this to be a start. Then it's about balance. In certain jobs, for example: Vicariat, it might be inappropriate to drag this down too far. If you're on maternity leave, etc., small businesses will suddenly have two employees. So I also see some challenges with that. But the fact that one has at least received the three-year rule for part of the positions is a great victory for the Christian People's Party and for the Left. That's something we're happy with. We should have gotten to an even earlier rule than what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2510	The Christian People's Party has a warm heart for the people who are struggling – we also heard that in the post here. Those who can work with their ability to work in the workplace are a group that needs to be lifted up and down. Wages and salaries subsidies are an instrument – time-limited, time-indeterminate. I notice that the government is very careful with grading what the bet is going to be. My first question is: Nav has a fairly good overview of those who are good applicants in terms of salary subsidies – those who have the best use of such a scheme. Will the Christian People's Party have the ambition that the scheme be given money, so that all those who want to benefit from such a scheme can get it, according to Nav – and thus get a better life situation by being able to provide in a capacity and get wages combined with that of a sheep from an employer, so that one has an income to live for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2517	If I understand the question correctly, what we do by decision today is not a blank mandate for anyone in line to get the measure. But we have given a clear signal that we want to make greater use of wage subsidies, also that a person gets new forms of both temporary wage subsidies and temporary wage subsidies, and that a person increases the rate on this. I can promise the representative Lundtigen that when we come to budgetary negotiations, etc., this is one of the measures we want to take, because I believe – as the representative says – that this is one of the instruments that can lead to more people being secured into the labour market. As I also said in my post, there is a balance here, because one does not want a lock-in – that one sees that the employer, who might be able to hire a person 100 pst. and paid him 100 pst. itself, benefits from a government grant. That's why this is also one side of the payroll that I want to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2526	There's been a lot of counter-thinking about resuming this system in the past. I also feel that this is present now in what is being said, and in what is in the documents from the government. But we get to follow up and see if there's going to be a boost for these people. Time will show it. My other question is about permanent work. Lasting work has finally received a separate post on the state budget. It has been very well received. At the same time it came from the government, in Meld. St. 14 for 2014–2015 on localisation, that the government wants to seek new funding and management, where one transfers this from partial government responsibility to becoming a full municipal responsibility. How does the Christian People’s Party stand for such a development of the system of permanent work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2535	Thank you for the question. I noticed that it came in the proposition on Friday. In principle, both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party should say that it was nice to want to transfer tasks to the municipalities, but I must say that the Christian People's Party is more sceptical about that transfer, because we fear that transferring responsibility for VTA actions to the municipalities could mean depriving the measures. One should have equal rights, as referenced by Victor D. Norman. I have learned that when there comes such a proposal and the matter lies in Stortinget, it is wise not to speak on behalf of the whole party until we have discussed it. But basically, it's our attitude that we want to have it stately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2542	The representative Robstad is pleased that the three-year rule is not for four years. My question is about the candidates for the quarantine, that one then after three years will not be able to take a new temporary supplement. It says: ‘Sections 14 to 9 new seventh paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the rules set out in this paragraph shall apply to the employment referred to in point (f) of the first subparagraph for the same type of work within the establishment.’; Then I wonder how to interpret this with the quarantine in e.g. the part of the working life of the daily food trade, where there are different departments and people can work in fear, in cash, or in storage, and in hotels, where there are different departments: one can be in the dishes one city and one can have kept the other place. How should a person understand this paragraph? Can one risk people going without fixed additions for at least three years plus three years – and maybe not getting housing loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2556	No, you can't. Quarantine days will be such that, after the year has passed, the company will have to decide whether to hire a permanent employee. If one then does not want to hire the person who is on terms of general access, fixed, that means that one gets 12 months of quarantine. So once again, you can choose to hire a new one on general access. This means, as I said in my post, that instead of maybe going three – today four – years before you get the permanent job, an employer is pushing an employer to decide whether to hire a permanent job already after one year. It's true that you can switch. For example, after one year of general admission, you may choose to work as a temporary worker, but then the three-year rule applies, so that after at least three years you will be entitled to a permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2563	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2566	There has been a radical change in working life in recent decades. Those of us who have good education, regular work and need good Norwegian knowledge as a working language have had an incredible real income increase – about 50 pst. in the last 15 years. It's almost unreal. We at Stortinget, employees or representatives, are serving on these developments in the world of work. We serve on the combination of serving well and having good pay and working conditions and having access to cheap services — services made by people on low wages abroad, or produced in Norway by people working for far lower income than tariffs. There is an accelerating trend with major differences in labour income. When, in addition, we have increasing differences in job-free income between different groups, there are reportedly different wealth distributions, there are differences in the overall economic situation in which people are. This breaks with the agility, the agility that is Norway’s historic European advantage. It's incredibly important to be aware of what's happening. The EEA Agreement has worked for more than 20 years, with free movement of labour within the EU/EEA countries. From 2004, with the east enlargement, we saw a radical increase in labour migration. Per Rune Henriksen of the Workers' Party described the developments in his trade, the timber trade, and the situation of his former colleagues in a good way. In our general remarks, we in the Center Party describe the strength of Norwegian employment. We describe the strength of high levels of employment, high average working hours per person of working age — important prerequisites for financing universal public rights in the future. In the reporting part of this proposition, according to the opinion of the Centre Party, it is under-communicated that, as a result of increased labour migration, we are now in the midst of a trend of declining employment rates and lower average working hours per person of working age. The centre party believes that it only makes things worse if we try to solve future challenges related to the financing of our common welfare systems of labour immigration, as a result of the very falling employment of the increased labour market in the population. Instead of investing in labour immigration to solve our problems, the Centre Party believes that we need to get even more of our citizens to work. People must be grown and educated, while at the same time facilitating participation of their citizens in Norwegian employment under Norwegian wage and work conditions. This is a formidable political task, which the Central Party will give very high priority to. As many people here today have described from experience, EEA immigration challenges wage formation in Norway negatively, especially in professions where one does not need to master Norwegian as a working language. The Central Party believes that, in order to avoid this, the Storting must adopt legislation regulating the supply of foreign labour, and we therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to work for regulations aimed at delimiting labour immigration from the EEA territory. Weak groups in the labour market today are losing when access to cheap, young and diligent labour – and I cannot get enough of this with hard labour – that comes through labour immigration, is as large as it is today. We have to talk about this loudly. It should have been done a long time ago by multiple parties. The centre party believes that we need far stronger instruments to increase demand for those groups of people who lose their jobs. Here, the payroll schemes are important. I hope that the vague wording that comes in the message part will be given a completely different content, so that there may be something out of it. Otherwise, in the case of the permanent work scheme, the so-called VTA scheme, it is important that it remains part-financed by the State and is a state scheme. It's very central, and a very dear arrangement for the many who have enjoyed it. There is a galloping growth in manning companies, and an increasing number of people who have the form of contract permanent employment without pay between jobs. It now shows that the Storting must take into account the definition of ‘permanent employment’ and ‘temporary employment’, and that one must also make the form of a contract of fixed employment without remuneration between assignments illegal. It's very important that we do that, because we can't have the obscenities that evolve now, that people get the impression that it's a fixed employment, and then reality is something completely different. It should have been unnecessary for us to define fixed-term employment, but it is now necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2597	The President interprets the representative there to take up the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2600	That's absolutely correct. The centre party will also vote in favour of proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2606	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2611	I think I'll continue where I stopped in the last round. The representative says he wants to keep other workers out of Norway. In the previous round of questions, I asked questions about the Nordic countries and Europe. As I understood the representative, he wanted to keep people outside the Nordic region out of work. Then I ask: How, in practical terms, does the representative Lundtigen want to keep other workers from Europe outside Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2616	That's not what's being said. I do not want to keep workers outside the Nordic countries out of the Norwegian labour market. What we're saying is that we want to regulate labour immigration. We want a different system than today, where there is free immigration. We want to have conditions that are such that those who come and want to come to Norway have a guarantee that they have work when they get here. In this way, we can also ensure that it does not interfere with the Norwegian labour market in such a way that those groups that are currently being pushed down in pay and working conditions are exposed to such behaviour. Because there is no one here in this Chamber who has said that they want to, just because of the free immigration of labour under the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2621	As I understand the Center Party, you want to go in for an activity offer and not an activity obligation. I would like the representative to explain it a little further, because as I understand it, it is in an activity offer that you already have the offer, and then there is a question whether the recipient wants to accept the offer or not. It must seem quite bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2626	The previous government started something that was very good, and that was the qualification program. It was assumed that those who received social assistance in the municipalities would have the opportunity to go through an offer where they could clarify their working capacity. This meant that those who did not have the skills to work should qualify for disability benefit, and those who had the skills to work – for either full or part-time – should receive an offer there. It is this – which, insofar as government is also concerned, to increase the supply of the type of jobs for the type of people – that is important. The centre party sees it as nothing more than that we are not doing it without the public being a kind of birth aid to the employers who are interested in doing so, so that the sum of the labour input – and the public effort – will help the worker or woman concerned to receive income that can survive. There is a system that should be developed, and there is a much more positive system than starting to talk about legal obligations in order to be able to receive social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2631	First, I have to say a little bit surprised at how the Centre Party itself in a case on the Working Environment Act manages to write notes on Norwegian currency policy, export of Norwegian welfare schemes and the EEA Agreement. The centre party is even so negative to the EEA Agreement that they propose to limit immigration from the EEA territory, on which the previous representative was involved. At the same time, they do not want to restrict immigration from outside Europe. How can the representative from the Central Party feel that job seekers from our main trading partners are more difficult to integrate than people from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2636	Having full employment is inherently linked to the profitability of business. We have now been in a situation where the Norwegian krona has got a lower value, and I also expect the Progress Party here in the Chamber to agree with its leader, Siv Jensen, who has said that it is very good that we have our own currency that could then be used as a so-called natural stabiliser to ensure the activity in Norway. That is why we included the monetary question, the EEA Agreement, in the same way that Siv Jensen and the government have included it. In the case of labour immigration outside the EEA territory, it is clearly regulated. There are clear rules for whom work permits are granted in Norway outside the EEA territory. There is no one in this room who has gone in to change the regulation of that labour immigration. There's the Center Party safe, like the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2643	I come from an agricultural group and have picked potatoes and stones since I was 12 years old, and then it was important “to get up on the martra” – that’s the term that former Minister of Labour Bjarne Håkon Hanssen introduced, and that Robert Eriksson has also shown several times. I have also learned that farmers stand up for the nightmare, and that those who work in the primary industries are on and working hard. As I know Lundtigen, he too is a hardworking morning bird who sees the importance of activity or work both for the individual and for society. When you look in particular at the good experience you have in the drama of duty of activity, and you see that it works, fewer people go to social assistance and more people go to work, does the Centre really not want to continue such good results in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2648	No one is hurting by working a little, and the few are hurting by working hard as well. But what we're talking about now is activity. You have to understand people's situation, you have to exercise some wisdom, you have to exercise some human knowledge. It's not useful to force people if you're not motivated by that sail. I think it shows that the legal obligation of activity ignores the life situation in which these people are. When one travels around and talks to them, there is a group that has experienced quite difficult things. I believe that we should try to act with a human warmth and try to help them get a job opportunity, because most people have something good in them and want to develop it if you get the opportunity. It's much more constructive than talking about legal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2653	The centre party today proposes that the government should work for regulations aimed at demarcating immigration from the EEA territory. And in the setting, the center party says in a comment: ‘In order to address our challenges, this member suggests that Norway must give priority to getting more of its own citizens to work.’ In the Political Quarter on March 20, the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said that the Center Party is occupied by open doors, and that the Center Party has much in common with the Left. But with the use of words in this setting, I can't easily see what we have in common at any rate at this point. On the other hand, the Progress Party State Council, Solvency Horne, said to the Evening Post on 16 March: ‘I believe immigration is good for society. We wouldn't make it without the immigration we have. [[...]] Had we not had that labour immigration, it would have been more difficult to do what is important for the country." Is the Central Party of the perception that Progress Party State Council Horne is too liberal for immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2670	In the setting we now have, and as far as other settings are concerned, the Centre Party is involved in the question of how labour migration works. We're showing how it affects the level of employment. We're showing how it affects value creation. We're showing here that it's a different reality than most people are aware of. That labour immigration is what will solve Norway’s challenges, the Centre Party believes is wrong. We want us to grow the labour we have in the country. There have been many here from the government parties who have said that there are so many outside the labour market. Yeah, it's a huge resource. It is a huge resource that we need to use – a huge opportunity – but it will require rather offensive measures to bring about a change. When it comes to the Left Party, I think Battle Violence Vedum thought about the Old Left, not today's neoliberal Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2680	I understand that the Center Party got enough of the old Left, since they broke out of it in 1920. I want to warn you that we are going to create a contrast between accepting people who come to Norway and wanting to work, and including several Norwegian citizens in the labour market. This is an open case where we're going to say yes, both of them, because the number of jobs is not a zero sum game. On the contrary, we have growth in our economy, and we've had it for many years. I have to say that I wonder who the Central Party is talking to around the country, when they now have this actually the most restrictive attitude to labour immigration in the Stortinget. Gardening, churches, hospitals, doctors' offices and shops throughout the country have opposed many skilled immigrants from Sweden, Germany and France in recent years. I don't think they'd make it without, but it's probably the Center Party has a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2689	It's not just that they're capable, they're also very industrious. There are very many of the work immigrants who come to Norway from the EEA region, who are incredibly good workers. They're making an amazing effort, and the Center Party wants to accept them and include them. But we've seen and learned from experience that it's an advantage to have tools that make a person have reasonable control of the situation in a totality, because what's happening in the Norwegian labour market today is that a number of groups get a weaker position. We see it in youth, which does not train in a number of subjects that are needed to build Norway. It can't be like that, after the view of the Center Party. For the left, there's no problem, but there's a disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2694	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2697	Norway has a relatively low unemployment rate, and we have had that for a long time. At the same time, too many people are outside the labour market. These are either not part of the statistics at all - e.g. An estimated 40,000 under 30 years of age who are neither employed, under education nor part of the Nav system – or among the 650 000 who are wholly or partially out of work by taking advantage of different Nav systems. Many will never get into work, and being sick — short - lived or long - is not something to be ashamed of. On the contrary, it's precisely why we have a social security network, so that everyone can live worthy lives regardless of personal circumstances. At the same time, we have to admit that we are not good enough to include those who could make a better effort. Some of this is about a rigid code, which can prevent people from getting the chance to try. Something is about support schemes that don't give enough encouragement to activity. Today, the Storting makes important decisions to ensure that we can include more people in the labour market. In the message part of Prop. 39 L is a good and thorough review of the tools we have in labour market policy, and I perceive it so that almost all of the proposals and descriptions made by the government here gather a lot of support in the Stortinget. More controversial is the proposal to grant general access to temporary additions. The left is for this. We think that will give more people a chance to try their way into work, show them what they're good for and hopefully get a regular job every now and then. The proposals are framed by strict rules which apply to the percentage of the workforce, and what amounts are reported for quarantine, so that the potential for abuse is minimal in the view of the Left. At the same time, we have been concerned that the road to permanent work should be shorter than he is today. That is why for many years we have been critical of the so-called four-year rule and want to tighten it up. That's what we're getting for today. This is a vision that the Left and Christian People's Party have stood alone in the Stortinget, and it is therefore gratifying that a majority today say that those who are temporarily added, in the vicarariat, on a general basis – the two in combination, or in combination with a project position – should be entitled to a permanent job after three years. This was an important requirement from the Left when we entered into negotiations on a new work environment law. Another important requirement for us, for which we today have an impact, is that we have to make temporary adjustments in the state. Where the possibility of using temporary additions has been very ‘small’ under the Working Environment Act, it has been even larger in the state. It's about both the law, that is. Service workers' law and university and hojskulelova, but also for poor employer practice. Today, the majority of the population ask that, through the two selections that have been set down, the government come to the Stortinget with proposals that reduce the use of temporary settings in the state. This is important in order to create greater equality between the sectors of the labour market, both in terms of legislation and in terms of practice. However, a proposal to which the Left has been more sceptical is the introduction of the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients. Not because we don't believe that activity can be good, but because this is a system for which the municipalities are responsible, and our general starting point is that we have confidence in local democracy. Nevertheless, as part of the agreement between the Left, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, we have agreed that activity should not be just a possibility, but that it should be the general rule. We feel sufficiently secure through the important comments that have been put in place, ensuring a high degree of local freedom of action in the implementation of the activity, ensuring that the funding of any additional costs for the municipalities is provided, and ensuring that the bureaucracy around this is kept to an absolute minimum. Then, of course, it is only hoped – and we do – that the action now adopted will have good results, and that the most likely will be in ordinary work or education after a short period of time. I think we're all a couple of people about that. The left one means that these two things are in context, Prop. 48 L and Prop. 39 L, provides a good basis for a more modern working life, where we work to reduce outreach, where flexibility in the individual workplace is strengthened, and where the social security network around those outside calls for the fastest possible entry into working life. In short, we make the door to work more open and the road to permanent work shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2719	As the representative Rotevatn mentioned, the Left High went into the negotiations with the government parties and wanted to change the four-year rule for fixed employment to a two-year rule for all. The ambition left had, was negotiated down to become a three-year rule for some, but not for all. It seems strange that the Left has agreed to create an A team and a B team among temporary employees, creating a vague work environment law that becomes difficult to understand, use and enforce. Does the representative, Mr Rotevatn, think that the outcome of the three-year negotiations for some, but not for all, is preferable, or would the representative prefer that the majority today adopt one rule for all and tighten the four-year rule to a three-year rule, as proposed by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2724	The representative prefers his/her own batch program. That is what I went to vote on, and that is what my mandate is in this Chamber and my mandate in the negotiations with the other bourgeois parties. I want to highlight the starting point here. The starting point is that we – in not eight years, at least for many years – mass on the red-green parts that we wanted to tighten up the four-year rule. He was holy, it was impossible to look at, it did not go on. It was only the Left Party and the Christian People's Party who wanted to tighten him up as we got this thing on our table in Stortinget. We've used our negotiating position to secure multiple numbers for a tightening up. Is it going as far as the Left initially wanted? No, it doesn't, but it ensures that the road to permanent work gets shorter. Not least, it ensures that those who drive and hang out between different sources of what is really a fixed need are forced to make it a fixed position after three years. It's a good thing for the Left, and we're happy that the Labour Party has turned around, even though it happened in the very last turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2731	We already wrote in the employment message that there was a need to look at the four-year rule, and now we are proposing a three-year rule for everyone. It is easy to understand, to use and improve the rights of all temporary staff. Before and during the negotiations, the left believed that all temporary employees should have the same annual rule as to when increased job protection breaks down, and then two years. I did not get an answer to my question in the previous line, so I repeat the question: Does the representative Rotevatn believe that the negotiated solution left has now been achieved by three years for some, four years for others – a messy legislation that becomes more difficult to understand – is a better solution than one rule for all, where all temporary employees, on whatever basis, get three years as the Workers' Party proposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2738	I think I said it quite clearly in my first post that the best solution is the Left's proposal, which in itself does not go in favour of the Labour Party either. There may be a letter in the employment message that there was a need to look at something. If there's something the red-greens were good at, it was writing in different messages that there was a need to look at things. One obviously saw both long and well, because it happened very little. Nor has it done so until there was a broad majority on the non-socialist side to tighten up the four-year rule. Why the Labour Party could not come up with its view of this matter until we were finished, only the Labour Party can answer for itself. I think I know what the answer is. Nor is it certain that the Labour Party's proposal applies to everyone. That applies to one more privacy in the paragraph that we're talking about. What we're busy about is making sure that the road to fixed work gets shorter. It's done now, and then the door gets opener. There is still a working party, and they use a lot of energy to fight it. They even say that they will reverse it, and that is one of many good reasons why the plurality that is in this Chamber should be left after the 2017 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2743	An increasing number of staff are employed in crew companies. Very many from Eastern Europe get a foot within the Norwegian labour force through manning companies. More and more people from crew companies are experiencing at their workplaces. There are companies that hire people, hire people and have no production of their own. So it has developed a form of employment in these staffing companies, which is permanent employment without pay between jobs – permanent employment without pay between jobs. Is this a legal form of permanent employment after the Left's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2748	I would like to point out that I have absolutely nothing against – and the Left has absolutely nothing against – that people from Eastern Europe get a foot within the Norwegian labour market, it is through the recruitment company or other forms of addition. That's what I thought was positive. So I share as far as concerns as the representative Lundtigen and others have that the manning industry should not be the main road into the working life of people. I'm noticing that with the changes in the law we're making, it's a particular industry that's been skeptical, and it's just the manpower industry, because of the changes you're making around temporary settings, and making sure that there's a way into the ordinary working life outside the manpower industry. It's not that the manning industry is a problem in itself, but I think we're all a few that the main way into working life should be through normal addition. So that people get a job, that's what I think is fine. That they get a job through a crew company is fine, but the very best thing is if they come in normally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2756	There's a lot of people talking about fixed addition, and it's going to be the general rule. There are few people who talk about a fixed addition having a probationary period, which makes it a very good arrangement. But my question was about what is now developing at a furious pace, namely that there are people in the crew companies who get a contract of employment called permanent employment without pay between assignments. The Council of State has said in the past that he does not want to deal with this politically, get a political clarification. The Council of State has said that it must be brought before the courts. In the courts, one feels that those who come up in a situation like this on the part of the crew companies are entering into a settlement, so it does not come up there. So my question is again: is permanent employment without pay between assignments to characterize as permanent employment according to the definition of the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2761	I think it's up to the representative Lundtägen's own question that this would be an advantage to get legal clearance on, preferably through the court system, where one does. But when it's said, I agree that this is a problem that it's worth going closer to. It has not been so much mentioned before the last few months, but I would like to say that I agree that this is something one should look at, but it should primarily be clarified by law before any political action is taken. When it comes to probationary time, which the representative Lundteg is in the beginning of his line, it's important, but I think there's reason to stress that there's something different than the homes that exist for temporary additions to the work environment law today and the home that is added to the letter f. What many companies say is that they're going to add more, take more chances, expand, bet, if they have the ability to add more, as they're now getting the bulk of the population. I think it's good for business, and I think it's good for the employees it's owed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2768	I have to admit some surprise that the Left went in to introduce an activity obligation for social welfare recipients. The SV and the Left probably share the vision that everyone should have a meaningful activity, but in our view this is not done through a social welfare obligation, but on the contrary by strengthening schemes that we know work, such as the qualification programme, which provides close, individual follow-up and something more to walk with for those who participate in it. I wonder what measures have been triggered locally, which means that the Left has come to believe that it is nevertheless right to accept a job obligation for people who are going to receive social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2775	At first I think it is important to stress that this is not a job imposed; it is an activity obligation. What you get is an obligation to offer is not just work; it can be other things — it can be education, there can be different actions, it can be detoxification, it can be job search. But it's also right, as I mentioned in my main post, that we were initially skeptical of the proposal that came, and it was essentially based on our view of local democracy. This is a system that is funded by the municipalities, and we want the greatest possible freedom of action for them, with regard to how they will impose conditions, as many people do today. Then we see that very many municipalities have great success in offering activity, so there's nothing wrong with it; on the contrary, it's very good. In negotiations, a give and take. This is something we have chosen to join in and vote for. There is a reason why we are now getting a great deal of freedom of action locally with regard to how to implement it, that the Storting clearly says that it should not lead to increased bureaucracy, and that the Storing commits itself to financing any additional expenditure. Then there's something left to stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2782	There is a full opportunity today to exercise discretion in respect of the requirement for activity or other social assistance payment requirements. What I'm asking is: if you don't have the ability to meet the obligations you're given – if you have the drug treatment as a commitment and not the ability to follow up, if you have the education and iron out for exams, and if you have other obligations like picking garbage in the streets, but not meeting up one day – is it appropriate to get some of your benefits, as I see it, that you should be able to get some punishment by not showing up? And then I wonder how low benefits the left believes are reasonable, when it's already a few dollars you receive as a social welfare beneficiary today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2787	This is what you have done well in the configuration. Firstly, it is important to stress that today municipalities are free to impose an obligation to operate, and they are free to impose sanctions in the event of a breach of the obligation to do so. What we're doing now is actually just one thing, and that's turning the general rule, so the rule is that one should offer activity and then rather justify the exceptions, and exceptions can be absolute. Many will not be able to engage in activities, based on different mental or physical health disorders, for example: Of course, they should not be imposed on or subtracted in a performance. But for those who can, activity is a measure. Then the main rule is that it should happen, and one must justify it if one is not to do it. But one must of course never get there that one gets such a move in the performance that it goes beyond life or health, or that one cannot get to meet their most basic needs, but it determines the multiple in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2792	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2795	I want to start by recording SV's suggestions. Work life in Norway is good, although we have some challenges to address. The debate has also shown that. We have a lot to take care of, and therefore the fronts of the debate today are also quite harsh. We have a good working life because we have a well-functioning tripartite work that has worked over time, and we have a good working life because we have had strong trade unions. We have a strong trade union movement that has both the ability to balance the conditions of power in working life and the ability to gather people together for common demands for improvement in their working day. Research and experience show that when fewer people have a permanent job, fewer people are organised – fewer people join a trade union. Therefore, SV also takes a very serious view of the proposal on temporary employment, because it can, of course, mean for individuals and too many people to have their lives put on hold, both in terms of the possibility of mortgages, to dare to have children and to have a basic security even if health fails or tomorrow fails. However, temporary employment is also serious because lower levels of organisation among people will also have an impact on working life. It threatens a fundamental structure of safety in Norwegian working life. That's part of SV's fear. The government produces temporary posts as a labour market measure, but it does not. It is not the case that the general protection of employment must be weakened in order for those outside the labour market to be admitted. I record that the same parties that voted in favour of SV's proposal for an enhanced youth guarantee, today promote general temporaryity as measures to get the same young people into work. We do not buy the story that temporary jobs are needed to make room for more people in the labour market. That is why we are proposing a review of the instrument for the effective entry of people with disabilities, and I would rather encourage everyone who wants a diverse working life to support it. SV is involved in making strategies, in making proposals and in working day and night for more people to take up work, and for more people to stand on their own and live as independent people and be financially self-sufficient. But we never, never, ever agree to a premise that temporary jobs are necessary for everyone to have a job in the workplace – because it is wrong, because it will not lead to more jobs, only that more people get temporary jobs. Community solutions must be clearly defined, but we must also have a trust-based system. SV aims to ensure everyone's income and dignity in the event of illness, in the event of events in life, even when things don't go completely as planned. Then it's important that we also have a division of roles and tasks that are clear. It is important that doctors and health services have the opportunity to make assessments of the individual’s health situation and that it is not reviewed by Nav. It is important that Nav's task is to give people close individual follow-up and action adapted to the individual. And it's important that each person meets with confidence and respect in the systems that are going to help one out of the world of work. It always pays to work. Therefore, sick people must meet with help and not with suspicion. There is no point in demanding human will if the question of providing is related to health and ability. Several have criticised the government parties for creating a bureaucratic code and an unbridled piece of legislation. I believe that the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients is an example of that. Today, there is full opportunity to make demands, but it must be based on the individual’s life situation and on professionalism. We must have confidence in professionalism also locally in those who provide and exercise the well-being where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2814	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2819	Welfare contract was described in a red-green government notice: «The Government will, through the use of the concept of welfare contract, stress that there shall be a relationship between rights and obligations.» In addition, it says: ‘Justices will lead to financial security, predictability and custom-made actions and follow-up. Obligations mean participation in appropriate measures that can both motivate and promote the transition to activity and working life and responsibility for their own life situation. The obligations shall also ensure that those who are able to work do not become passive beneficiaries.’ The majority comment states this: «Non-compliance with obligations must have consequences.» And... «The temporary payment of temporary social benefits shall be exempted, not the rule.» How hollow does the representative Bergstø think that SV's resistance to duty of activity works in this perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2844	The vast majority of those who receive social assistance do so for a short period of time in life. It's to get over a knee, it's to get on with it. I believe that it is not appropriate for those people to spend their time on other things than looking for a job or moving on to the next step in life. There are also many who are at work but who actually need to apply for supplementary benefits. I myself have worked on Nav and experienced the joy of the qualification programme that we introduced – how it can be done when you get the resources and resources to actually give people a meaningful everyday life through close individual follow-up, adapted to the individual, and find the resources of people who have lost faith in themselves too far. It is a program that is very appropriate for those who have gone on social assistance over time, and I will promise and encourage to strengthen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2852	It was an answer to everything other than what I asked for, but I can only interpret it there that welfare contracts, of which the red-green skirts, are no longer valid for the Socialist Left Party – or, otherwise, for the Workers' Party or the Center Party. One thing we've heard a lot from the red-green, is that temporary employment has a springboard effect due to today's legislation. It has nothing to do with lowering the threshold to work – it just has to do with today’s legislation being designed just as it is today. Why does SV then agree with a proposal to change today's legislation? Isn't the batch afraid to reduce the jumping effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2859	I can reassure the representative Heggelund that SV still wants people to deliver as they can and get as they need it. It's part of our welfare contract. So there's a question of temporaryity. We in SV have programmed that we want people who have had a temporary position for two years to be able to get permanent employment, of course according to the criteria in the law today regarding the four-year rule. We think that would be good. We support a three-year rule for all because we want to have neat rules, to which people can relate. We believe that the most important thing is to achieve the objective of reducing the number of temporary staff and of ensuring that there is as much safety and security as possible in the labour market. We hope to be able to reach a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2866	My question is about duty of activity. One thing I fully agree with the representative Kirsti Bergstø in – and as the government and the majority of the population say – is that the obligation of activity should be based on the individual's needs, opportunities and abilities. So there's no contradiction there. But what I'm asking is whether the representative Bergstø agrees with the former social policy spokeswoman in SV, Karin Andersen, who has called the obligation of activity compulsory work. I wonder if the representative Bergstø believes that an offer given to people – yes, we will help you, but you must receive e.g. drug treatment, further training, taking a course or doing work on an ongoing basis – is coercive work. And if she thinks it's coercive work, how does it correspond to the fact that the Socialist Left Party is for this in several municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2873	I would warn against seeing a link between people accepting drug treatment and having a basic living and a benefit for their daily lives. It is precisely that such simple conclusions are drawn, which makes me particularly critical of this scheme. Social assistance is for you to have the opportunity to have a decent life – even when life is difficult and the economy is failing. As the original proposal was designed, it was absolutely a recipe for forced labour. The Christian People's Party and the Left have managed to moderate it somewhat, but still it will be a coercion in relation to being able to practice professionalism locally in the encounter with the people you are employed to help, on the Nav and in the welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2880	I initially did not get an answer to my question. It was claimed by the representative of Bergstø that we have made such significant changes in terms of the obligation to operate. Then I wonder: What changes does the representative Bergstø think Stortinget has made with regard to the design of the obligation of activity itself? That's the one. The second thing goes on: when you call it forced labour, does the representative Bergstø think that the Socialist Left Party in municipalities that have introduced this is engaged in forced labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2887	I believe that there is a change from the original proposal of the government parties to a moderated version after the negotiations with the government's supporting parties. I think it is gratifying that we have come some way both in recognising that this will cost in the municipalities and also in being more clear that we should have the opportunity to use judgement more than the original proposal put forward. I would also like to say that in those municipalities where there is some kind of obligation to receive social assistance, there is a local anchoring where you have seen what resources and instruments you have to play at local level – what do they have to offer the people involved? I think that is entirely positive, and more municipalities should of course be encouraged to do so. Something else is creating a system where people have to put professionalism aside in order to satisfy square systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2894	Reading the opposition's comments in the setting of this matter does not necessarily make you very wise. Much of what is written is the closest thing to compare with the agitator rhetoric outside the theme that is actually being treated. A good example of the opposition writing something other than what is really the theme is is under the heading of State temporaryity. It would be thought that SV, which has traditionally had many public sector voters, where there is a great deal of temporaryity, would be concerned with reducing the use of temporaryity. I do not understand why SV fails to participate in the majority remarks on reducing the use of temporaryity in the public sector, in view of the special intervention of the representative from SV, who was very critical for the use of temporaryity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2899	We have different starting points and premises for the debate on temporaryity than the government parties. When the government parties sabotage everything in Nav's instrumentation, opening up a general access to temporary employment, we need to clear up that debate and call a spade for a spade. That's what this is about. Then we look forward to tightening up the legislation for government employees, hoping to be able to mitigate the use of temporary labour in the academy and among officials who today live far too much with that uncertainty. That's something that we want, and that we've also fixed in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2906	I would like to follow up on the last question, because this thought I was a little bit interesting. The left has asked at several times in Stortinget that we now get a hold of the use of temporary settings in the state. And I've actually just said that when SV didn't vote for it in the previous period, it was because of the Labour Party. But now we see in the setting that SV still will not join the comments about getting rid of the use of temporary settings in the country. In his first answer, the representative said that one has a different starting point and another premise. What is the starting point and the premise in the comment about getting rid of the use of temporary settings in the country? Can the representative point to a single thing that SV disagrees with in the comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2913	The fact that SV has not entered into all the formulations that should be edible in the majority position does not mean that our policy has changed. SV's policy is determined by our programmes, adopted by our national meetings, adopted by our national governments, and we're trying to put it into life every single day. We promote it in this room, in municipal governments and in county councils every day. The fact that we haven't gone into any formulation that it might in itself have been possible to go into, doesn't mean that SV has a different policy. We want to fight temporary jobs where they exist and where they pose a problem and provide a lack of safety and security in the lives of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2920	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2924	Let me start by trying to look 10 years ahead in time. If we then take the world-wide analysis that was presented last summer by Nav, we can stand in a situation where we have an overproduction of 200,000 unskilled. We know that in the years to come the unskilled jobs will be more or less gone because of technology and that they are automated away. At the same time, we need 90,000 more skilled workers than we can produce today. How are we going to put up with a labour market policy that ensures that more people have the opportunity to be on the inside of the world of work, to have the qualities, to have the skills necessary to meet tomorrow's working life? How do we equip Norway for the future? Then we need to think new, and we need to think differently. At the same time, if we look at the same time, in 2025 – if the population increases from 5.1 to 6.1 million – 17 pst. by the population are immigrants. Half of them will be from countries such as Latin America, South America, Africa and Asia, i.e. countries that are initially far from Norway — the lack of languages, the lack of relevant work experience in relation to the Norwegian labour market. What door are we going to take those people through when they're standing in front of two doors? Should we drive them in the Nav door and tell them not to use them in the Norwegian working life, or should we drive them in the work door? I – and the government – want to lower the threshold in order to allow more people to participate through the work-life door. We need their skills. We need their contribution to have a good and sustainable welfare society in the future. I meet many immigrants, young people with holes in the CV and people who have met challenges in their lives, who get away from me and say, "I would have liked to have had an arena and show myself on, show me and show me that I'm actually good enough even if I have holes in my CV, even if I've had challenges in my life." We want to improve this area by embellishing temporary employment – an embellishment within a secure, good framework, where the general rule is to remain permanent, where, through a quota, the number of participants is still limited, with quarantine provisions and limitations in working time so that employers cannot impose them on temporary employment, based on the general access, other types and extended working time arrangements, precisely to create that security, create that arena and create those opportunities. Then I record that the opposition – the red-green government – said when they were in position, that we want to use red-collar money as a wage subsidy against temporary employment. So if you take the young people who have fallen out, who sit down in the basement room, play PlayStation, and want to catch up with their lives, then it's okay for the red-green parties that you go up from the basement room, go down on Nav, stand six months in line on Nav, and then get the opportunity to go out into temporary employment. Because it's okay that you're temporarily employed for four years. But if the same youth goes up the same basement staircase, out to the company on the corner and asks to show up, you disagree that you're going to be allowed to show up for a year. It's a logic that I don't understand. It's a logic I don't understand. The representative, Holen Bjørdal, said in his statement that we were trying to hide labour market policy. No, I am proud of the labour market policy that this government has put forward in this proposition and made visible. We were not satisfied with the message that was delivered. There was a communication to assess and explore a number of measures further. How should a message be followed up? I'm asking the representative Holen Bjørdal. Well, in that case it would have taken even longer, because then you would have made a proposition that would have been out at the hearing, while we do it in the same operation to have concrete suggestions on the table, in order to improve the daily lives of those who need help with the labour market, faster. That is why I am proud that we are now putting in place a permanent wage subsidy, that we are increasing the payment to the employer from 60 to 75 p.m., that we are improving the wage subsidy scheme for those who have been away from work for a long time on regular leave, improving arrangements for those with reduced working capacity, and also increasing the subsidy there. I'm glad we're now getting a new follow-up agreement, a new organisation grant, targeted at those people who need help at work. Let me take the example of Steffen from Nord-Trøndelag who works in a car repair shop. The old scheme, what was it like? Yes, there was an organisation grant that was sent to the employer. There were no concrete commitments that the grant should be used for the organisation. Now we demand that it be organized so that people like Steffen, who are disabled, who are paralyzed from the chest down, get an organized job so that he can be permanent at that place of work. Steffen looks forward to being employed under normal conditions, has been provided with the equipment needed to enable him to function in his daily work each day. That's what I call inclusion policy, which I'm proud of. It's a change of pace compared to what was before. And it's targeted, because it helps more people who are in his situation, into permanent work and into a good work situation. A lasting wage subsidy – I talked about it in the opposition several times. Now this government is delivering. People at risk of permanent disability can now bring with them a long-term wage subsidy that reduces the risk to the employer, providing security for each employee to be in the workplace until he becomes a pensioner. It's not like we've had before, that you get work for short limited periods, you're sent away from the company, into Nav to find a new company, and then sent on to the system. I want duration, I want security for those people. That is what we are now creating with the labour market policy adopted here today. We'll take care of what's been called here. What's the red-green government coming with? Well, the red-green government also came with a lot of good. That's why we're continuing the job strategy. That is why we have strengthened, improved and continued what goes on at the follow-up level for work on mental health. Kiwi is one of the shops that performs well in job-mastering follow-up – I visited a shop at Raufoss a short time ago – where people with strong mental disorders get the opportunity to try out in the workplace and stay in the workplace. It is an action that we agree on and that we continue and that we will strengthen our efforts. I am glad that we also get new measures, work-preparation measures, for some people need longer time to qualify, get the necessary security, get the necessary qualifications to move forward towards normal working life. Instead of being locked up in permanent work or getting out of work properly, we improve that transition because the period is too short in relation to today's follow-up and clarification. We're letting more actors go, more talent developers. Every person has a talent. Now there are several talent developers who are involved and take people to help them get into the world of work. That's why I'm glad we have a policy that triples the efforts against social entrepreneurs, which makes a great effort – that you're offensive in that area. I also record that many parties in this room – and I respect it – disagree with temporary employment. That they have chosen to disagree with temporary employment and that it is a bad measure, I respect that. I think that is a good measure. But I also hear that the same political parties that are opposed, the traineeship system seems to be a very good arrangement and it seems that we should have more of it. What is a traineeship? It is a temporary employment to pay conditions worse than temporary employment. Why are you in favour of this and against temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2945	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2948	The Council of State did not mention in its contribution one of the major challenges we are facing in the labour market now, namely the rapid development of the new form of permanent employment without a guaranteed wage. In connection with the last oral question procedure in which the Council of State was present, the Council of State answered a question from the representative Holen Bjørdal that he had to learn the principle of power distribution, and that it was not up to politicians to think anything about the interpretation of the law. But the principle of power distribution is, in fact, that politicians have something to do with making laws, and politicians have something to make sure that the laws can't be misunderstood. If the Council of State agrees that it is an unprecedented form of employment, we can clarify the law. A minority requested in the setting. Will the Council of State help us to put an end to the unworthy form of employment that is now developing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2955	Firstly, it was not this government that introduced the term ‘fixed employment without guaranteed remuneration’. It was part of the Work Environment Act that was passed and was maintained by the Red-Greens. If at the time the legislator saw that this was a problem, why didn't the last government change those laws? Why didn't the previous government clarify the ambiguities of the law, if there are ambiguities in the law? My point – and I have also replied to the exact same question earlier today – is that we have a dialogue with the social partners. I have asked the social partners, among others. to document its scope. I am waiting for documentation from the parties to do so and have had meetings with both the Joint Association and the employer. So I honestly believe that if you think there are ambiguities in the law, and that something is contrary to the law – which has been raised – then it is actually the way that the courts decide the interpretation of the law, decide whether it is contrary to the law or not. Only once it is confirmed will it be natural for the legislator to go in and clarify, based on what is a political objective and a wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2964	This is a strange understanding of the principle of the distribution of power: if a political person believes that a law should be like this or that, then one should first wait for the courts to tell us how the law should actually be read. There is a rapid development – it has evolved very in the last period – with the new form of permanent employment without a guaranteed wage. We politicians have a responsibility to think that's how you want it in society. We don't want to, because we don't think it's ever been the meaning of the terms 'fixed employment' or 'temporary employment' that one could have that intermediate solution. That is a political position. My question, which the Council of State did not answer after Lundtägen's previous questions, is: What does the Council of State mean – is it an acceptable form of employment, or does the Council of State agree that we must put a stop to it by means of a necessary political decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2971	Today, there is a legal form of employment in today’s work environment legislation. I am in favour of that law, I am in favour of commissions, and I am in favour of a piece of pay – which is also a pay scheme within the Working Environment Act. Once upon a time – if this is a rapid development – I have asked the parties to document it. If the representative, Andersen, has documentation and can prove it to me here today, I would like to accept that documentation. I think it is important and right to be able to obtain documentation when asking the parties to document what the situation actually is and how the law is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2978	This is quite surprising, because now the Council of State actually says that this is a legal form of employment today, and then I don't understand what the Council of State has meant when he said earlier that this form of employment must be tried in court. Most politicians who have expressed themselves and engaged in this issue believe that, according to the law of the day, we have two possible forms of employment. One is permanent employment, and the other is temporary employment. Where does the Council of State find the basis for the legality of the practice that has developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2983	It is fully lawful today to be permanently employed with commission wages. The insurance industry uses it to a large extent. There's nothing in the Working Environment Act that prevents it, and I'm because you can be permanently employed on commission wages in industries. Now Andersen's representative has to hear what I'm saying: if you think this is against the law, you have to try it out before the court. It is the court that is the appropriate authority to determine whether it is contrary to the law or not. I've been saying that all along and I'm still stuck with it. It is also within the power distribution principle, and I believe that Andersen is also well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2990	According to the Central Statistical Office, in 2014 there were 1,256 crew companies in Norway. In 2013, for which we have numbers, there was a turnover of 5 billion. kr, and as Andersen’s representative was involved, it is therefore a form of contract in the manning companies that is becoming increasingly topical, because it is cheap for the manning companies, and it is the form of the contract ‘fixed employment without pay between jobs’. I haven't experienced a single person in this room who defines fixed-term employment without pay between assignments that come within the definition of fixed-term employment, for the core of fixed-term employment is that one has an obligation to meet at work. One has an obligation to meet at work every day. I ask the Council of State to understand: is this permanent employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e2997	The legal question is the courts that have to decide. I am no lawyer, who can decide it, and the representative Lundteg knows that neither can he say with his heart that he is the right authority to judge the law with regard to what he says.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3002	Then I can't understand it any other way than that the Council of State on behalf of the government believes that fixed employment without pay between jobs is defined as permanent employment. In order to determine whether it is in line with the law, it must be brought to justice. Is that how to understand that it has to be in the Supreme Court before the government surrenders and is willing to change its understanding of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3008	The answer is yes. Law must exist, but one does not have to take it to the Supreme Court. There are also other courts before the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3013	When the Minister of Labour was a great representative, we sat together for two periods in the Labour and Social Committee, and there were two things we agreed on. One was that the measures should not be put out to tender, and the other was that permanent work is a very important system to which the state should contribute, to ensure that everyone gets a job. I'm recording that here, the Council of State has committed two serious violations of promises, and he did so very quickly. The putting into tender of all measures is completely unnecessary in order to chain the measures, to have a diversity of measures and to conclude agreements with other small suppliers. This can be done by means of pre-qualification and longer-term contracts. What is at risk, on the other hand, is breaking out all the small ones, and that there is no diversity, but simplicity in the recycling industry, and that the skills we've spent on building up millions of dollars are now out of the question. How will the Council of State... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3020	The president reminds me of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3023	I understood only one question, and what the second breach of promise is, I did not get quite clear. When it comes to putting it up for tender, we have put the follow-up action and the clarification measure into tender. I think it's right to do that. I believe that there are several actors who can join and qualify people back to work and give closer follow-up. So it's not right, as Andersen's representative says, that all the measures are out of tender. These are the two measures which have been put up for tender. As Andersen's representative also knows, we have two similar measures, one of which was already under tender for follow-up and clarification. I think it's important to let go of more actors, more talent Scouts, we need, and I think it's wise and sensible to do so, just to help more people get into the world of work. I'm not so concerned about who helps, but that the quality is good for those who help, and that as much as possible help to get back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3032	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3035	I am glad that there will also be a discussion about the part of the message in the matter we now have for treatment. We were, as the representative Holen Bjørdal was well inside, disappointed when Meld. St. 46 for 2012–2013 was drawn, and we also find that there is little concrete in what has now been presented. The councils were in their posts at the elections people have, whether to go in the Nav door or in the work-life door. Our ambition is that the Nav door too should be a door to work for too many people. I don't think we should ignore that discussion, which is important, about how our tool, that is, Nav's tool, actually helps get people out of work. There, I think we have a lot to discuss together to improve the results and what we achieve, and I hope we'll get back to it more concretely. It is said quite often in the debate, very generally, that there are 600,000 outside the labour market. I think it's dangerous to have a debate just on that slogan plane, because among the 600,000 it's among other things. someone who's been sick for a week. There's someone who might be available for a week or two, on the way from one job to another job. When you really start analysing that group, you see that this general statement doesn't meet the diverse needs of that group if we're going to get results in the future. Even the Swedish term ‘outsidership’ has been adopted by Norwegian citizenship to replicate the Swedish approach in the area of which we have seen poor results. I think it is wrong to sub-communicate the fact that the most important figure in Norway is actually the proportion of the working-age population in work, and there we are among the best in Europe. This suggests that we have many good results on which to build. Then we need special solutions for those who have special challenges in the labour market. That's when I think the constant mention of the 600,000 – and then done – is stigmatizing for that part of the 600,000 who actually have no alternative but to receive benefits, which in a voice welfare society should be received without being stigmatised by political authorities. Sometimes a few impressions may be that it is important for the Council of State to be tough on the weak, but for our part we are committed to approaching the challenges we have, in a respectful and proper way, and there should not be grounds for those who are quite legitimately receiving benefits, to be ashamed of it. I think this is being very clearly expressed in the question of duty of activity, as it was from the government, first of all, because it has become a little bit better after Storting's treatment. We've always thought that it's right to be able to claim activity when it's right for it. But a general obligation of activity is primarily stigmatizing. There are many, including: in the Progress Party, which likes our old slogan “Do your duty – demand your right” – in that order. But sometimes a fool can wonder if you've got the whole slogan, or if it just says, "Do your duty" – and that's it. When we talk about duty of activity, we do it in the extension of a government budget debate where the activity offer was actually cut. Labour market measures were cut, and it was cut especially after the government's proposal on labour market measures for them with the greatest challenges on the labour market, and the local government economy was cut. It's the municipalities that have the social aid part of it. Then there's a question not only about having a duty, but actually about having something to be active in. So to the very worst of the proposals in the two issues we have today for consideration, which are temporary employment. I think the worst thing about that proposal is that we are discussing it in the context of the matter that we are now discussing. I find it extremely speculative that the Council of State takes a proposal for temporaryity into the Working Environment Act and tries to camouflage it as a measure for the weak in the labour market. It's almost incredible. We know from the countries that have tried this before, that it doesn't work. There won't be any more jobs. Several of the jobs are temporary. Yes, there may be some examples of people who have a temporary job actually getting a regular job, but it's an example that today's work environment law is very flexible and that it works. In those countries that have opened up general access to temporary employment, to which access is now open, even the OECD – it is not exactly the stronghold of socialism in Europe – has demonstrated that even if they believed it, it does not work. There are no more jobs. Several of the jobs are temporary. We don't have to go further than Sweden to see the results of that policy – with 80 pst. unemployment when the new government took over, with approx. 20 pst. unemployment among young people, and even more dramatically: half of the young people in Sweden who are at work have temporary employment. So the question is, is that what we want for the Norwegian society? No, for our part it's not. It's turning time back to the situation we had before 1977. It's not like the threshold into the workplace is getting lower. No, but the threshold out is going to be lower. I think the representatives from Works were very honest, as they said that this is not primarily what we think is going to give those who are outside the labour market, the opportunity they would not have otherwise, but it is unpleasant to have to cancel people after the probationary period or when the assignments disappear, which is the argument for having temporary jobs – so make it easier for the employer to tell people up. This is not just about young people, for whom many are rightly concerned. It's embarrassing to our young people – the decision that's being made today. But that doesn't just apply to them. There are 500,000 people each year in Norway who start a new job, and all of them can be met by a new rule the next time they go into a new job. When I say that I think it is bad that this matter comes into this document that we are now dealing with, it is from the reactions of the Community Organisation for the Disabled, to the Disabled and to the Young People with Disabilities, who are upset – they feel used – that the Council of State is pushing them in front of them in order to implement a general weakening of workers' rights in working life. Instead of the mess that the government parties and the centre parties have made, with a three-year limit for some and four-year limit for others – it becomes bureaucratic and totally unwieldy – the Workers' Party proposes that we go for a three-year limit for all. We see no need to create more bureaucracy with the new legislation proposed. So to the development in the case of permanent employees without pay between assignments. This is how, as others have said, the Council of State abdicates if he refuses to believe anything about a law that has been passed politically, which politicians have interpreted, what it should mean when the law was passed. We have to think about that politically. It is quite dramatic when the NHO Service has published on its websites a recipe on how to exploit workers in the way this is developing. We are the ones who pass laws. We're the ones who have to clarify the law, if we see that its intention isn't being followed. Finally, I would like to say that The Economist has been in Norway several times, and they have used Norway as an example internationally on how to get to a fair society with a safe working life and good financial results. I am disappointed that the government is working so hard to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3067	It is an overall goal to include more people in the workplace. Those who are able to do it will have the opportunity to support themselves. Dag Terje Andersen devalued that 650 000 people of working age are out of work. Right-hand thinks it's very serious. The fact that such a large proportion of the active population are on different health-related benefits is one of the main challenges facing Norwegian society. Too many young people, immigrants, disabled people or people with disabilities are not allowed to use their labour force. The right will lower the threshold into working life for those without a job. Incentives, which measures have been shown to be effective, and the importance of good work-oriented follow-up, are mentioned in the notification section. The future sustainability of society depends on more jobs and fewer social security schemes. We need to facilitate the use of the individual’s labour force and residual working capacity, and to provide more tailor-made services in job-oriented services. Many of the measures mentioned in Prop. 39 L, will require further follow-up and concreteisation. Following the examination of the Storting, concrete proposals in the notification section related to changes in labour market measures will be consulted. Good dialogue with user organisations, professional organisations, social partners and Nav is important to ensure that what works is properly put into action. The government will use ordinary labour more in labour market policy. It involves more use of instruments aimed at the demand side of the labour market. Much of the labour market policy so far has been oriented towards the supply side, for example: by training and qualification of the unemployed and persons with disabilities. Training and qualification should to a greater extent be combined and implemented in the ordinary working life, as we have seen with Telenor Open Mind and Rings in the Water under the auspices of the NHO. Incentives are needed so that employers can be motivated to hire more vulnerable groups in the labour market. As an important part of the strategy to increase the use of ordinary working life, the government wants more use of wage subsidies. Compensation of employees is one of the most effective measures. In addition, the government will facilitate access to temporary employment. A general access to temporary employment for a period of limited time, with a strict framework, gives more people with insecure working ability the opportunity to try their way into work. Temporary employment may, in some cases, act as a stepping stone into the labour market. Both increased use of wage subsidies and easier access to temporary employment will lower the employment threshold and provide people outside the labour market with better opportunities to try their way into work. People with disabilities find it almost impossible to get a job, even if they are qualified. Despite several years of IA agreement, many good intentions, different arrangements and labour market measures, there is no way to reverse negative developments. 43 pst. of those with working-age disabilities, not at work, compared to 75 pst. otherwise, by the population as a whole. So it's been like this for the last ten years. The government wants a more active approach, with better organisation of work. A new and simpler organisation grant or inclusion grant for ordinary working life shall be introduced. In addition, a new follow-up and organisation agreement shall be established to ensure that both the employer and the action participant are followed up and the contact person at Nav. In labour market policy, it is important to build on what works. For a time, there has been a trend with increased use of intervention sites. Unfortunately, the results have not been as good as desirable. Too many go between different interventions rather than in ordinary positions. Therefore, labour market measures need to be improved and simplified. There are too many almost identical and overlapping schemes. The overlapping of work measures shall be merged. Actions shall be better and more effective. In order to improve labour market measures, it is important to develop more knowledge and skills on inclusion in normal working life. Current practical experimentation shall be combined with systematic and targeted research efforts. We need to learn more about what works in getting more people into normal working life. The proposal to merge work practices in screened activities — APS and Qualification in a labour market enterprise — KIA — into a new work-preparation measure called AFT is supported by many. The new action meets the desire for a more seamless approach for participants, in close contact with the ordinary labour force, as both the subject and the Stortinget have long been concerned about. The action must be strengthened professionally and resourcely. At the same time, there has to be a restriction on the length of action to counteract locking effects. It is important to focus on quality and competence in getting vulnerable people with complex job needs. That is why we have said in the comments that we want the government to give special priority to increasing the number of places for this new merged measure, Work-Preparing Training. Proposals adopted today are not drastic. They are moderate and aim to lower the threshold into working life and give people a new chance to get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3086	Today, we are finally going to set the stage for a long, committed and time-consuming debate on changes in the labour protection law. During the harvest and throughout the winter numerous slitting meters have been written about the important and necessary proposed changes of the Right-wing Party Government. Especially from the trade union movement and the opposition, it has stumbled with criticism. If you take the critics for the word, it would be thought that the government had adopted a day of judgment in the workplace. The trade union movement went so far as to strike the changes. The Workers' Party's Lise Christoffersen has claimed that Erna Solberg and Robert Eriksson have attacked people's rights in terms of permanent employment and believes that a striking title in the government's changes to the Working Environment Act had been 'from safe to unsafe work' instead of 'from social security to safe work', which is actually the government's objective and the purpose of the changes we are now making in the Working Environment Act. The working party's Anette Trettebergstuen went so far that she even believes that equality is being damaged as a result of the government's improvements to the Working Environment Act. Clearly, there are no limits to everything that will go wrong in working life after the adoption by the Storting today of a new and more timely labour environment law, a new and forward-looking labour environment law for new and better times. The main and main reason for the changes we are about to adopt in the government parties, together with our good partners, the Left and Christian People's Party, is to secure business and secure jobs, so that we get more people back to work. The main objective of the government is to meet the needs of business and to get more people to work, and the general rule of employment is, has been and will continue to be permanent. The working party's attempt to create a fun vocabulary game by calling the changes 'from safe to unsafe job' is simply too stupid. It is not that the government tries or wants to move people from permanent jobs to temporary jobs. What we're talking about here are people who are out of work, people who do not have a permanent job and who have not had a job in their professional life, who will now get a lower threshold in order to try out. I think the Minister of Labour's example of sport illustrates the objective and ambition of the changes in a popular and good way. Robert Eriksson has, as you know, used the example of a football player who must not just sit on the reserve bench. If you sit on the bench all your life, you never become a good football player, and you'll never get a firm place on the team. It's important to get rid of it, it's important to try to show you what you're doing. There are many enterprises and businesses, both public and private – except the state – that actually have a desire for and a need for more flexibility in terms of temporary employment. For example, a whole 78 pst wants. by members of Abelia in the fields of research, innovation and business start-ups, changes to the rules on temporary employment. Before Christmas in 2014, the Minister of Labour and I visited a small business at Hamar, which is called Making View. Making View is just such a company that has a great need for temporary employees and would like to welcome the government's changes warmly. They're just four employees, but they're getting big and important deals with international giants like Audi, Google, and YouTube. As a result, the need for more employees is very great, but since they are unsure whether they need more employees permanently or temporarily, the result has been that the four entrepreneurs now work almost 24 hours a day. I would say that it would have been better both for these entrepreneurs and for those who want a foot within the company, if Making View had employed someone temporarily, than as it is now, that they do not take the chance to hire anyone at all. Fortunately, these important changes, adopted today by the majority of the population in terms of modernising the Working Environment Act, will make the prospects for businesses such as Making View brighter and simpler. Once I'm in the big crowd, I want to thank our government partner Right, I want to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for a constructive and good cooperation. It is gratifying to see that the four bourgeois parties are united on these important and forward-looking changes that are now being adopted by the Labour Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3114	In this case, there are actually several proposals from the government that deserve to be made a little closer to the seams; the worst thing is the misconception that several temporary jobs will function as a door opener for groups who have problems getting into the labour market. Why would it happen here with us, when it hasn't happened anywhere else? There will be no more jobs, only fewer permanents and more temporary jobs. It is a bad suggestion from the employee team, and it is a bad suggestion from the employer team, at least for the serious variety. Unfortunately, the proposal for general access to temporary employment will be adopted, despite all the protests made by the trade unions and by those concerned. Much has been said about the increased use of temporary posts already in this debate. I should therefore like to focus on a group of workers who are at risk of becoming extremely disadvantaged when temporary employment can become the main rule of new employment. It's about women, and it's about pregnant women. The Equality Ombudsman has analysed the complaints they receive regarding discrimination against pregnant women in the labour market. The clear majority of cases, a whole of 55 p.m., relate to employment, including the renewal/renewal of vicariates or other temporary posts. Now the number of complaints is not saying everything, probably many people never deliver a complaint. However, less than a month ago, the Equality Ombudsman published a new study by TNS Gallup on the extent of such discrimination against pregnant women. The report is a sad reading. More than half of the women in the study report having experienced discrimination in pregnancy or parental leave. Very many of these women were employed in temporary posts. One out of five have experienced that they have not been given an extension of their employment. This happens with today's legislation. It shall not be strange to understand what will happen when temporary employment becomes a general feature. We know who is most often working in temporary jobs. We know who it is most often becomes pregnant in the transition from one temporary position to another. It's women. If we ignore the student group, we know that the proportion of temporary workers is the largest in the years you usually have children. Fertility is highest among women aged 30–34 years, the second being aged 25–29. In the latter age group, 19 pst. by women temporarily employed in the last quarter of last year. The average age of the first child is on the way up and the birth rate is on the way down. The last figures show a fertility rate of 1.78 — the lowest since 2002. Now the new number comes in a couple of days, and we'll see. But it may not be so strange that the birth rate goes down. Because behind these numbers it hides real life. We can try to imagine what it's like to wait for a child and then experience losing a job – no good start to life as a newly-baked parent. Once again, governments and large numbers are doing the opposite of what the labour market and society challenges are all about. Once again we see a sovereign rejection of heavy hearing bodies with insight into the labour market and discrimination against pregnant women, and again I am most surprised – I must admit – at the government's supporting parties here. January 28th was a general strike. The same day, the Christian People's Party leader posted his appeal on Facebook. It started as follows: ‘You are here today to show that you want regular employment, safe working life and say no to more Sunday work. Let me make it quite clear: this is something we're sharing completely!' The agreement between the government and the supporting parties states that ‘there will be general access to temporary employment, as proposed by the government’. To sue the pill a little bit, it has to be researched. It may – as we have heard here today – reverse the decision if the result is different than expected. I wonder what is really expected – that Norway should be completely different from all other countries? There is no need for research. It's just looking at Sweden, which has gone up the path before us. There's the proportion of temporary employees women in total 18.6 p.m., compared to 10.3 p.m. in Norway. Is it really a point to get the same evolution here? Understand the one who can, and try to explain it to young, newly born women who most of all want a permanent job, loans for housing and perhaps to start a family. This may prove to be more difficult. All the way, to Tor André Johnsen, who highlighted the good intentions of the government: it doesn't help much, it does, when all the experience shows that the result is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3141	Many young people today face challenges that make them unparticipate in the world of work. It's serious for society, but also for the individual. Work and income are important for family creation, but also for the quality of life. It is therefore important that young people get to work quickly once they have completed school so that they do not fall out of the labour market later. It gives the opportunity to become part of a social community, but also the experience of being part of building the country. All people need to be seen, to experience mastery and to be valued. Many young people do not have this experience, but have fallen out of the community. There may be many reasons for this – one may be family relationships, another may be negative experiences in school everyday life, a third may be drug problems. In situations where one falls outside, it is important to be able to come back. On several occasions, the Prime Minister has promoted them with holes in the CV – people who have a desire to work but lack education or work experience. In Norway, we need this workforce; it's just to look at the challenges we face in the future in training more people in the professional field. The government wants to work for a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for all, ensuring high employment and low unemployment. In order to achieve this goal, the government's commitment to the workline is important. When the government wants to impose an activity obligation on young beneficiaries of social assistance, it is taking young people seriously. The need for a job gives young people a more predictable everyday life, but also facilitates their transition to work. The alternative is more unpredictable everyday life, with few or no activities. Is it taking young people seriously? My own experience as a social worker and from working with young people tells me that many people want an activity. The challenge has often been that there are no meaningful activities. This has meant that it has taken longer to enter the labour market. I think it's absolutely crucial the interaction that develops between the social worker and the youth that you're working on. The proposal for an activity obligation involves a closer follow-up of the beneficiaries. It's crucial and important. Each municipality will organise the activation and follow-up. I believe it is important to note that you should be followed more closely. It also provides an opportunity to work on the challenges that may hinder professional participation, such as: or mental problems. Many have complex challenges. The obligation of activity may relate to municipal action, but may also involve participation in state action or action in cooperation with action providers, social entrepreneurs, educational institutions or others. For the government, it is important that good activities are created, and that everyone who wants to participate in them is included. We all have a common obligation to set up for those who want to get into work. The workplace is often a place where you build social relationships and experience mastery. The conditions under which the activity is to be carried out shall be such that the beneficiary becomes wholly or partly self-sufficient. The activity shall enhance the possibility for the beneficiary of employment or training. It shall be labour-oriented and meaningful for the individual. The labour market of the future is more demanding than today, with greater requirements for formal qualifications and language skills. If we are to succeed in getting more young people into work, we need to take action and develop targeted measures. One of these may be an activity obligation. The government takes young people seriously by following those who fall outside the ordinary working life. It improves the quality of life, participation in social communities and income from living.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3165	In Norway, we have a long tradition of good social dialogue between the authorities. In the case of important changes to different legislation, there is a tradition of listening to what they say, listening to the supervisory authorities. In this case, we see that the government is clear that individual meetings with people are more focused than input from organisations representing workers throughout the country and in all industries. In the previous case today, the government parties together with the Left and Christian People's Party agreed that we should raise the age limit from 70 to 72 years, a proposal that both LO and NHO oppose. It is a paradox that the government is more concerned with ensuring opportunities to work for a 72-year-old than with giving young people on their way into the labour market security around the situation and employment. Being permanently employed, but having six months of probation, gives an opportunity to show what you stand for, while at the same time the employer can assess your suitability. But that is obviously not enough for this government. The grip that is being taken today is helping to ensure that fewer people who have a regular job today get it in the future, because you are going into temporary employment. Because it has been said that this does not create more jobs, so then a move from regular jobs to temporaryity must be what we go into. So for high turnovers and increased use of temporary employment. What can this lead to? Well, less competence, both for individuals and for businesses, and less innovation. And it inhibits equality, which also underlines the Minister for Gender Equality of the Progress Party – just so it's also said to Johnsen of the Progress Party and his posts here instead. It can also increase the health risk, as the Labour Inspectorate points out, and make it easier to be unprofessional and thus operate in the workplace. The combination of increased uncertainty about how long you have a job and the uncertainty about buying a dwelling is not exactly a positive driver for a youth who is going to get out of work and out and establish themselves. The Council of State's attempt to see into the crystal ball instead was interesting, and obviously seen through the Long-Sight Glasses of the Advance Party. For the new citizens who are going to come from Africa, America and Asia, they have to expect to be employed temporarily if they get a job. The question was whether they were going to the Nav door or the workman's door. Fixed employment was not even a topic; it was not mentioned that it could happen. So to the challenge of holes in the cv. I agree that it is demanding to apply for a job if you have a hole in the CV, but with the government's policy, more people will have to adjust to that situation. Should more people have to go from job to job every 12 months, they will also have to find out that they are standing in a queue and waiting, and get new holes with them that way. Governments point out that those with reduced working capacity, specifically Steffen, are in a difficult situation. Now I don't know Steffen, but what I'm thinking is that Steffen and others with disabilities and with challenges in relation to the work situation have organisations that represent a lot in their situation. But the Council of State claims that with his policies it is now getting better for those with disabilities in the workplace. Then I find it very strange that the organisations representing them say no to the government's policy. And that can't be the case, what is being claimed by the Council of State – not at that point either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3182	We have a hidden temporaryity in Norway today. Not long ago I was contacted by a person who had had such a temporary position, one of the hidden ones. She wanted to share her story in the hope of making others' stories better. This person had had mental disorders. She had fallen all the way out. So one day she had decided to regain control of her own life. The diagnosis should not be controlled. She went to Nav, and there she was offered one of the most common measures Nav uses to get people back. In reality, it is a temporary position. The challenge with the temporary position is that there is a temporary job without pay, because you are on benefit, and it is without contract. It's a kind of temporary position the red-green parts seem to be quite fine. The fact is that when I criticised the arrangement of that measure in the newspaper for a while back, I was told by the Workers' Party that I had to calm down, because this was a commonly used measure. So this kind of temporary position is quite ok for the red-green ones, but if you get a temporary position with contract and with pay, it is a rage of Norwegian working life! Where is the credibility of such an argument? I ask because I don't understand it, I'm going to be so honest; I don't understand where the credibility of such an argument is. Hiding temporaryness — absolutely ok, important measures. Those who criticize the device must calm down. Mid-terms of contract and wages – the furoring of Norwegian working life as we know it. It's not on your fingertips. It's not hanging on to anything at all. We are disappointed that we want to do follow-up research on this to see how it seems to lower the threshold to work for those who are outside. There are some knowledge parties – parties engaged in collecting knowledge – doing so. However, the research available on temporary employment is clearly sufficient for the red-green parties, despite having been done ashore with regulations other than those we have in Norway and which have a different labour market situation. But that's good enough for the red-greens. So maybe they weren't knowledge parties anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3193	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3196	The changes in the Working Environment Act are negative for women. At least that means those who work with equal opportunities in their daily lives. The Minister of Labour's colleague, the Minister of Equal Opportunities, is also concerned about the same thing, and she demands that the issue be examined from an equal opportunities perspective. We don't see any sign of this. As the representative of Christoffersen said, there was recently a report from the Equality Ombudsman that pregnant women are being discriminated against in the workplace. Pregnants who are temporarily employed are more likely to be discriminated against than those with a permanent job. Women's professional participation contributes to our common well-being in line with the revenue from oil and gas, while at the same time it is essential for women to live independently of the economy. This is almost no longer discussed – at good and bad. More temporaryity does not help others to experience financial autonomy. In spite of the fact that the law is on the women's side, pregnancy discrimination in the labour market is at its best. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, workers’ organisations and the media confirm this. Many discriminated against people make contact, and there is reason to address this discrimination. More temporaryity will mean more discrimination. I do not understand how the chairman of the committee may feel that this proposal for more temporaryity is neutral in relation to pregnant women in working life. For discrimination against pregnant women means that women lose their jobs, do not get a job they have applied for. This means loss of jobs, career opportunities and wage rises. It doesn't affect men, and it's hard to understand that the proposal is neutral. The report on pregnancy discrimination from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman shows that the clear majority of cases concerning discrimination on grounds of pregnancy or maternity leave relate to employment, in particular the renewal or extension of vicariates and other temporary posts. In a situation where birth rates are falling, such information should make it even more appropriate for us to ensure that women can combine childbirth and safety for work and not put even more uncertainty on women. Barriers to women in working life continue and are reinforced without the apparent attention of the Solberg government. We need a government that strengthens women's rights. We therefore need a law that contributes to it. The proposal for more temporaryity is not that. This is probably a case that puts Norwegian equality in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3209	Not demanding or having expectations for people is the opposite of showing respect. The right starting point is that people will and can contribute — in the community, at work, and not least in their own lives. If you're looking for social assistance, you want something new to happen in your life. Everyone knows that social assistance should not be a permanent state. Many people need a little help to get into the business, such as finding a job, raising their skills or other meaningful work for themselves. I was there when the Right and the other bourgeois parties in Trondheim introduced activity obligations for social welfare recipients early in the 1990s, as the very first municipality in the country. In particular, we wanted to transfer young social welfare recipients from passive to active life. It was not natural for us to get into this pioneer project. The working party was, of course, strongly opposed, but at the top of it all LO went to court against the municipality. LO felt that giving young people social assistance meaningful work was non-tariff. Untied! Court case! Of course, the Labour Court ruled in favour of the municipality, but not least in favour of the people the municipality wanted to help. Today, social assistance is subject to mandatory activity both in Trondheim and elsewhere. At the Jobbhuset in Trondheim, they tell the Address Paper that miracles happen here. Young people who have fallen out of study or work and who are asking for social assistance are sent straight to the Job Home – no paper mill, but right at the Job Home to deliver the application, get into activity and get adapted to follow-up. As one from Nav says about the Job House, that's what's going on. A normal Nav office can't do this. There are measures for young people, but they do not receive the daily follow-up. This daily follow-up is currently a good one that is reserved only for some of those who have or are applying for social assistance. All beneficiaries of social assistance are guaranteed money for living, but today the Storting also decides that the same people should be ensured a meaningful activity and thus a better chance of getting away from social assistance and into work or education. Local provision shall be made by municipalities and costs shall be met – no new reporting requirements, simple and unbureaucratic. When you read the comments on why the Workers' Party opposes the provision of activity to all on social assistance, yes, you can get the impression that the resistance is justified by some form of care for the municipality rather than for the social welfare beneficiary. If Norwegian municipalities are able to assess whether someone is entitled to social assistance, they are also able to provide them with an offer of activity to help them out of social assistance. Activity is better than passivity. Long-term pay is better than permanent social assistance. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left today contribute to the necessary renewal and improvement of Norwegian social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3226	Both as an SV and a trade unionist, I sometimes agree with Left's Sveinung Rotevatern. I also want people from Europe and the rest of the world to come here in Norwegian working life and get a foot within – both feet. What I have against, and the turmoil I share with the representative Lundteg, is behind the debate on temporary additions that is part of the debate today. We have economic cooperation, the EEA, with a Union, the EU, which creates great unemployment and poverty, and which sends people on the run to find work. Only from Eastern Europe was there nearly 160,000 last year, and too many of them do so that they do not dare to take up unworthy working and living conditions and social dumping at work because they are so unconnected with the world of work. Despite the hard work done by large parts of the trade, the level of organisation between these people is too low. Elin Ørjasetter recently called for a well-organised working life in an article in the Evening Post on 2 March, «The EEA amends Norwegian working life»: ‘Where reality changes, policies also need to be changed. EEA immigration has changed my political views, from being an optimistic liberalist to becoming a convinced believer in an organised working life. Liberalism only works where everyone has negotiating power. It's not like that anymore. Too many people offer their labour at too low a price. The payroll floor does not exist as it did before. LO and NHO have the tools, in the form of tariff agreements that can be made public, i.e. apply to all enterprises in an entire industry. LO and NHO also have common interests in high productivity and legal conditions. A good cooperation between employers and trustees is our guarantee that parts of the working life will be returned to the Norwegian 20s. It's time to get organized, even for an old liberal.' Our role as legislators is to put down some fence posts, fence in so to speak, banish workers and people outside the workplace. I'm afraid that more use of temporary addition will lead to the opposite because power is so different between the parties, and that it will weaken trade unions in their struggles to create the floor that the working world needs to prevent us from developing in a direction that we can't live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3242	Today, when I take the floor in this debate, it is because the government is once again putting gender equality in reverse. If anyone in this room is now getting tired of the fact that the trade union movement and the Labour Party are holding this tab high, I will agree on a long way to go – I am starting to get tired of the government making suggestions on proposals that will make us go from being one of the world's most equal countries, a precursor country for many, to a Norway that can no longer face innovative and exciting solutions for gender equality. Today, the Stortinget decides that Norway should be engaged with several temporary staff, i.e.: less predictability for the individual and not least for the families. In a gender perspective, women will be particularly affected. Predictability of working conditions and working time arrangements that take care of care obligations is crucial for an equal society, together with good childcare facilities. Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson claims that the changes we are adopting today will contribute to a more family-friendly working life. Had he believed in it himself, he would have dared to carry out the gender impact assessment of his fellow councillor Horne. It is precisely the structural leadership of a regulated working life, permanent jobs, good leave arrangements and child care systems that have led Norway to have high employment and relatively high birth rates. Predictability of working conditions and working time arrangements that take care of care obligations is important for a society. I believe that the proposals for embellishment of working time rules will help to maintain gender roles, not to increase gender equality. Today, it must be allowed to wonder where the Minister for Equal Opportunities has been in the discussions on the changes to the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3255	Norway is a good country to live in. We have free education for everyone, we have a great freedom of nutrition, we are largely an open and tolerant society, and we have a tidy and organized working life. But we also have some challenges. The Norwegian school, which is good in many areas, is failing in an important area. It's that every third student falls out of high school or does not complete and consists of all subjects. Although there is no need to be a disaster for the student concerned, there is unfortunately a strong link between those who drop out of school and those we see again in the extraterrestrial statistics later. The weight of the students involved here is that of boys who can't complete all the subjects, who have too much absence, and then there's so much to say again that they fall out of the education cycle. One of our most important tasks is to meet the boy who has fallen out of school with many opportunities, so that he doesn't fall out of society as well. The government has already made it possible to complete secondary education even after the age of 25 years, and both the apprenticeship clause and the increase in apprenticeship grants make it possible for several of the students who attend the vocational training courses to have a place of learning and thus also to complete it. Nevertheless, there is more to be done. When I have listened to the Labour Party in this debate, it sounds as if the most important thing for them is to talk down how many this actually applies. Then, fortunately, we have a majority of the four bourgeois parties, who were elected to take this seriously, after an election campaign where the debate often dealt with this issue or not. One of them that I think you should listen to is Eddie Eidsvåg. He's been violently referred to in these debates, precisely because he's working on the mob project, with these guys I'm talking about, who have fallen out of school. He has said quite clearly – he has been disfellowshiped quite strongly – that it is worse to deal with trade unions and LO than with the prayer-house environments in Saudi Arabia. Fortunately, that is something he cares about as he continues to deliver his message. We have to lower the threshold, we have to make the first step into working life lower than today, so that more, especially of those who have dropped out of school, take the step. The working party once had a slogan that said: Work for everyone is job no. one. The problem is that to get a job for everyone, it has to be easier to get a job. one. That is what the four bourgeois parties are now providing for, for the Workers' Party's fierce protests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3270	This debate shows that on the left hand side and on the right hand side we want to go in completely different directions. The ones on the right-hand side want greater differences and think it's good. That is what we see in tax policy, as we see in the cut-off proposals which are about to benefit the most disadvantaged, we see in proposals now about more temporary employment, i.e. the weakening of employees' rights. It's enough that some get a job when they've been temporarily employed, but the whole point of this change is that it's going to be easier to quit people. That's the result. It shows research from all countries. It completely cancels the government parties and says, "Here you have my anecdotes, blow in the research, it seems like we're saying! But it actually doesn't, and the more recent research also shows that this leads to a two-way division of labour, because it also weakens the power of the trade union movement, which is able to distribute both power and money in society in a more fair way. So this points in a very scary direction, which is also not productive for a country. There has been a lot of discussion about forced labour for social assistance. I've been critical of it, to the starting point that the government had. Because that's not how people get help when they get to the social office, or to Nav. They're in line for years to get help. The municipalities that have done this, and they have been obliged to do so for all years, have done so in a sense. They have succeeded, so it is fully possible within today's law to do this. When this came, I thought that then the government had probably set up a race so that this would give the municipalities the opportunity to do now, so I asked the government during the budget procedure: how much money has been put in to the municipalities to implement this, in order that it is the follow-up that everyone is now talking about, the daily follow-up that the Nav offices are unable to do today? Then the answer from the government was zero. Now we know that the tax revenue in the local government sector has failed by nearly 3 billion. Last year, they're failing now, it's almost $4 billion. kr, and I wonder, where are the people who are going to help those who are now to be forced into some work for social assistance? There are no more people in Nav to follow them up, and there are no more people in the municipalities to follow them up. I think that the government parties should read the supervisory reports provided by the Health Authority on the social services in Nav. It says in a headline: ‘The communities are breaking the law.’ It says that people are actually not being followed up. I've talked to a lot of people in Nav who had longed to do this, but they don't have the money for action. Therefore, the SV has made proposals for action, for more action, and that these young people you are talking about should be entitled to action. But you have therefore voted in favour, and you have also voted in favour of the proposal that those who have had disability benefit should also be entitled to action if they become healthy and want to return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3279	Before Christmas we received a Kripos report on occupational crime in Norway. It says that as much as 30 pst. the placing on the market in the construction industry is black. This means that the Norwegian construction industry is converting between 130 and 140 billion. kr in black money. It is serious – very serious – for the people who work in that part of the world of work, who are completely insecure if anything happens to them, for the community that misses huge sums every year that should have been spent on investments in society and on the industries affected. The serious ones are being outrun. Professionals no longer become attractive workers. If someone's wondering why it's hard to recruit young people for a profession, and it might seem like someone in the government is doing, it might be because these kids understand more than the government. It is not attractive to train in professions where the labour market is characterised by unprofessionalism. Today the government makes an unsustainable situation even worse. We know that temporary employment makes it more difficult to detect crime. It says Økokrim, Kripos, the Labour Inspectorate and Nav. In fact, they warn against more temporaryity in working life. When the government is now equalising fixed and temporary employment, we will see a development with fewer permanent employees and more temporary employees. With today's legislation, we already have 200,000 temporary staff. 200,000 is too many today. We should have done it harder, not easier, with temporaryity. Nest leader of LO Hans Christian Gabrielsen has said that he regards the government's reliefs related to temporaryity as a gift package for the unprofessional part of Norwegian working life. I agree with Hans Christian Gabrielsen in LO. He also fears that increased temporaryity may lead to more work-life crime. The report on crime at work in Norway states: ‘In recent years, legal developments have opened up the wider use of temporary employment, temporary employment and so on. Such relationships weaken the permanent link between the employer and the employee and may help to make the detection and investigation of labour market crime more demanding.» So this is what we heard an hour ago Robert Eriksson standing up here describing as safe, good arenas to show up. So this is what we want more of this government to do. This is what happens when dogmatic party programmes with old policies are what will lead Norway into the future. The OECD, as several have mentioned, had the same meaning as the government for many decades. They have turned to facts and reality – it is a sin this government does not have the same ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3295	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, reminded us of the old wisdom word in the work movement «Do your duty – demand your right». Then it is timely to remind the same representative of another slogan from the movement of labour: «The whole people in work», or perhaps the 1500-year-old wisdom word «the root of all evil». In fact, temporary employment is better than no employment. Temporary employment provides work experience, and if you are temporarily employed, you need to get up in the morning. Norway is in transition. Workers must find the way from old industries to new industries, from unprofitable enterprises to profitable enterprises. The Labour Environment Act is de facto Norway's most broken law. Then there might be something wrong with the law and not with those who break the law, and the stronger the reason is to look at how this law works. Let's say that the main principle is that fixed employment should continue to be the rule of Norwegian working life. However, by opening up the possibility of up to 12 months of temporary employment, the rights of workers and the rules of the Norwegian labour market are not being changed. And when you secure yourself by introducing a quarantine and not being able to extend the period of employment beyond 12 months, you prevent him from being taken into permanent temporary employment, or anyone else from coming and taking the job. The safety valve has then been established. We have to remember that the Working Environment Act saw today's light with a different industrial structure than what we have in Norway today. We've gone from an industrial community to a service-providing society. The Working Environment Act is well-designed for industrial needs and not for today's working life, which requires flexibility on the part of employees and not least a business life in a way that is undergoing permanent restructuring. Then we have to adapt the law to the situation that businesses are facing, and not add to the burden of a difficult competitive situation that private businesses face.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3311	We are facing major changes in our economy. Oil activity has long been the engine of our economic growth. Now we see that the oil price is fluctuating again, and the investments in the industry are falling. At the same time, we are facing a green shift. Until 2050, we will convert to a low-carbon society, where the emissions of greenhouse gases are no larger than the Earth can withstand. We are facing major and necessary transformations in society and in the economy of society. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left make working life more flexible and adaptable, so that, in the time that comes, we get more out of our most important resource, namely the labour force. Eight years of reform drying under the red-green and passivity to the challenges of the future are now over. Yesterday's rules are not always the answer to tomorrow's challenges. This is an important and responsible transition to meet tomorrow's challenges. In other words, it is a large and overall back cover for this matter. At the same time, the matter has a deep social and human side. It's about getting people from social security to safe jobs. The belief that everyone will and can contribute is deeply rooted in Right ideology. We build a lot of our policies on this optimistic and positive human vision. For us, the motivation of all to contribute to the best for themselves, their immediate surroundings and their own is an important driving force in policy development. But today, too many people don't get the opportunity to realize this. Nearly every five persons aged 18–67 are currently receiving health-related benefits. Behind these figures are many broken dreams. It is important to state that the main rule of Norwegian working life remains regular employment. That's the way it should be in the future. This is about giving people who are outside the labour market a chance to show what they are good for, and gathering good experience from work with a view to getting a stable and secure job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3324	International Analysis Company A.T. Kearney suggested Norway loses 420 billion. in income per year from the organisation and thinning of individuals by cynical backers. It's a huge amount, and it's a lot of suffering. There are many fewer health sisters, teachers and kilometers of road in it. The government has provided a package of measures to combat crime at work, and that's good. A lot is good there, but is that enough? The changes today will draw the government's visions and goals in the opposite direction, as confirmed by the Labour Inspectorate's report. The eagerness of government to realize its own ideology is greater than the desire not to reduce the power of trade unions, cf. Truls’ quote from the Labour Inspectorate’s report. This is new, must know. I also have it that way sometimes. Sometimes it happens that I take out an old dress from the closet, and I look at it and say to myself, "Kari, it's new." Kari, it's new, I'd like to say one more time. It could be – yes, it is by no means unimaginable – that I had believed in it myself. It's not just that the position is called new, that's what the employees want, says the government, even though the same employees have gone on trains and said no thanks. It's like in the old days when my children were young and I could in a context say, yes, but you like it, and I got the answer: No, I don't. - Yes, you do. - No, I don't. Then I turned away and smiled and knew better – just as the government does. Because they have some ideological goals to implement. What we see has a clear political dividing line. This weakens employees in a way that reduces the work needed to cope with the crime of working life, which is eating up business from within, when employee organisations are deprived of power. The Labour Party believes this case shows that the government creates a difference in the relationship between employers’ organisations and managers — employers — in terms of power. It is worrying, and it helps to weaken the ability and opportunities to jointly address the greatest challenge: an increasingly well-organised black working life, which both parties, both right and left, agree on, must be taken seriously. And we must have powerful means. The government has chosen not to use as powerful as the working party will use.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3339	There are many things that work if you want more people to get into work. Social work works, for example: If you manage to meet people in crisis in a dignified and respectful way, follow them up and quickly give them opportunities for qualification and action – if that is right – or provide them with health care – if it is right – or help them out of a crisis economic situation, then many more are doing better. That's what Nav says in his reports, and they warn, for example, against cut performance. So social work benefits. The qualification programme is beneficial, there has been research into the use of too little, and qualification goes on for a while. It's very important, because many of those who are struggling to fit in today's working life lack competence. They must have that competence. It takes some time, but the patience you need to have, and it works, because people come to work. The transitional benefit with duty to be in activity works so it laughs, it's the line of work so it lasts, but it will cut the government down to one year. If you are to be able to support a child when you are alone, you often need to qualify for a little more than one year to get a job with which it is possible to do it. Then the government suddenly thinks that three years of education is too much. It's very strange when they're so busy at the same time that others are going to complete their education. Of course, you have to be concerned that everyone is going to complete the education, including those who need some help from the public to carry it out. That scheme actually works even better for women of foreign origin than for Norwegians. I've seen with amazement why the government doesn't want it. The SV’s proposal that all young people who fall out of the labour market have to be offered education, training or qualification quickly works. It is quite right when the government also says that an offer of activity needs to be made quickly. Then it has to be in place. KS has calculated that it costs a lot to have such an offer for all or all of the young people who are on social assistance, but the government has not contributed a single penny to make this possible. Job skills work. It is an action for immigrant women that involves even looking for them where they are, perhaps in an environment where it is not common for women to be at work. And that works. But the government does not increase anything on the measures that actually work. One of the problems with some of those who fall out of work is that the waiting time for action is too long. Many wait up to two years, some maybe longer. Then everyone understands that it is difficult to get back to work. At that time, I expected the government to significantly increase its efforts. But on the contrary, the government cuts the measures. It's not the taskbar at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3354	In Case No. 1 and now in case No. 2 today we get served dark blue, bangy right policy, supported by Left and – something surprising for many – Christian People's Party. In this respect, government parties have tabled amendments that will cover the entire Norwegian working life, without listening to anyone other than themselves. A dark blue right-wing ideology has drummed all warnings from the LO, from the UN and from the YS, and the government has consistently refused to listen to all the statements that in a row and in a row have warned against introducing the changes in, among others. access to temporary employment. It is a problem that the government does not listen to advice, but the problem unfortunately gets bigger for those who will. An almost collective trade union movement with UNIO, YS and LO has gone to strike and warned against the changes, but the government did not listen. NITO says that general access to temporary employment is, in effect, a probationary period without the employee's protection of employment. The government is not listening. The YS says that increased use of temporaryity will hit women particularly hard. The government is not listening. The apprentices who have just completed their apprenticeship and are concerned about their continuing professional life want permanent employment and the opportunity to start establishing housing and family in a secure environment. The government doesn't listen to them either. The Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons correctly states that access to temporary employment is not the right solution for more disabled persons to get into work. The government is not listening. I heard in the debate here earlier that the Council of State Eriksson said the government had listened. Then you have to ask yourself, what did they hear? I think they heard their own voice. They only listened to themselves, and they only listened to their own answers. The Government's proposal for changes to this matter is nothing but a real blow to the face of those workers who want a serious and stable working life. It is a sad day for the development of a modern and good working life in Norway. Finally, one can reflect a little on the representative Arve Kambe's comment from this pulpit earlier today when he thought that these two debates we have now had were great for nothing. It tells me a little bit about the attitude of the right-hand side of this room when it comes to the rights of ordinary workers in working life. Then there was also a clarification from the Council of State Eriksson: permanent employment without pay between assignments is quite ok. That we have a government that defends such a form of employment is more than suspicious. That should be unmistakable.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3367	Those who stood outside of Stortinget on January 28th had a rather surrealistic experience, as "I have a dream" of joy from the speakers. It was not Martin Luther King who had stood up again, but the Minister of Labour who held an emotional appeal for more unemployed workers to enter the labour market. In front of him were a dozen thousand strikers in Harmony against a right-wing ideological labour policy lacking the basis for professional advice and research. In the backpack, the Minister of Labour does not have a single report that supports the policy he is afraid to defend, because there is no such thing. In his own department, he is told that an effect has not been found on the general level of employment, it only increases the ratio of temporary employment. People strike to an extent that we haven't seen this thousand years. The organizations of the government claim they will help, give the government a cold shoulder, and the government party falls on the polls. Yet they stand firm on their policies and claim that people do not know their own best. One might think that the sum of the opposition to the policy got the government to shake a little, in any case think a little bit extra after this was really the way to go, but the Minister of Labour is just as steadfast, he didn't fold an inch. On the contrary, he says to the media that he does not take into account the strike at all. I thought it seemed through the government that they don't think this strike had legitimacy, that people didn't understand why they were fighting – had they only understood their own best, they had embraced government policy. It's a kind of top-down hold that's been trying for an entire year without luck. The problem is that the government hasn't communicated well enough, or that people don't understand. The problem is that people understand, and they don't like what they see. Making fixed positions temporary is an effective response to professional organisation, which in turn weakens the level of pay in industries with strong competition for work. The softening effect will therefore be double – not only to stand alone, but also to lack a decent and secure economy, making workers more vulnerable to a take it or leave it. Norway cannot afford a government and a labour minister who fights against one and a half million workers, especially when the government is so clearly lacking both the facts and the support of the weak groups they claim to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3382	The EEA Agreement places considerable pressure on Norwegian working life. We see that unprofessional actors exploit foreign labour and engage in social dumping. We see a manning industry that drives a working life that, in the SV's view, we are not worthy of having, where we have competition on pay and working conditions. Therefore, it is essential to clarify: what is considered temporary, and what is what is regarded as permanent work? Can you say that you have a job when you have neither a salary nor a contract that says something about how much you should work, and when none of the basic conditions you consider important in a job are regulated? It is also bad that collective redress is removed. It is the protection of the weakest of the weak. It is precisely the foreign workers who were part of the basis for the introduction of collective redress – those who never dare or are able to stand up for themselves, because the counterpower will always be so much stronger. SV will make a settlement with the crew industry. We want to make a settlement with the free flow policy. We are clear that we want to replace the EEA Agreement with a normal trade agreement that does not intervene deeply in relation to matters that should be decided democratically. However, regardless of the view of the EEA Agreement, we should all be able to reconcile a fifth freedom, namely the freedom to determine Norwegian employment democratically in this Chamber. We believe that it is the Norwegian economy and the social partners that will lay the foundation for the way in which social life should look, not the EU. We do not want a working life where we see the ILO Convention, collective bargaining agreement and Norwegian labour law set aside for the EU. Earlier in the debate, it has been expressed as a surprise that equality is promoted as an argument against the changes in the Labour Environment Act. I would like to express surprise at this surprise, considering that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has been clear, the female-dominated trade unions have been clear on – and even the BLD, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been clear – that the consequences of gender equality are too poorly addressed. Gender equality does not come about by itself, nor is it deleted in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3397	Both the media performances of the last days and the posts in the hall today show one thing: the working party and the rest of the red-green politicians sit so high at the table that they no longer have contact with the grassroots. Today, the Trustee shall decide to open up a general access to temporary employment. Today we open another door to work for those who are outside and want to enter. We ensure that more people can have the most important chance — the first chance to show up in the workplace. But what does the Workers' Party say? Yes, this door should remain closed. And if it opens, the Workers' Party has the following promise, if they should come to power: the door will immediately be locked again, and the keys will be thrown far away. It is irresponsible of the party to conclude that they will reverse something they have not even seen the results of. We are witnessing a party that, in the absence of its own policies and alternatives, uses its energy to cancel others. One of the biggest societal challenges we have in Norway today is that too many are totally or partially out of work. Minorities, and particularly women with a minority background, are overrepresented in these statistics. Often — very often — it is crucial for these people to get the first chance. We know that just like school is the best integration arena for children, the workplace works the same way for adults. I've talked to a lot of people who are desperate to get out of work. They do not have the luxury of choosing between a fixed job or a temporary job. They do not have the luxury that they can choose between getting a mortgage or not. They have to think about whether the money is going to last the whole month to get the household to go around. Even the working party and the red-green must agree that there is better one foot in the working life than both feet outside. But what do we see here today? Yeah, they're negative on autopilot. Being against this is both unsocial and signs of ideological skyscrapers. I wish we had a working party today that also cared about all those who are out of work. Instead, the lot is occupied with closing the doors, putting on the brake blocks and pulling up the ladder.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3414	Let there be no doubt: the government's clear message is that fixed employment should be the general rule of employment. Opening up temporary employment on a general basis for up to one year is one of several instruments that we believe will give more people a chance to show up at work and thus get a foothold in the workplace. The proposal has clear criteria and strict limits with a 12-month quarantine period. If the temporary employee is not offered a permanent position, the enterprise may not hire a new person to perform the same tasks until one year has elapsed. Temporary employment is not an objective in itself, but one of several tools to include more people in the labour market. The government will have a modern and flexible labour environment law with instruments adapted to people in today's society. In recent months, there has been a lot of misleading and free rhetoric from the left about what is going to happen if the government's proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act is adopted. The LO has tried to scare us that the government wants us back to the unemployment community, where the workers were holding the hat in their hand. The government has also been accused of covering up the facts – that what is really in the proposal is opening up the freeing of temporary jobs, more overtime imposed and more Sunday work. It has actually been quite surprising to experience so massive, misleading rhetoric and so much untruth. Untruths won't be more true if they're repeated multiple times. Several who have participated in the public debate have tried to create confusion about the government's message. The Secretary-General of the Research Association is one of them. She wrote in an article in Newspaper recently: ‘The proposal for a new work environment law is bad news for all those who want to reduce the temporaryity of researchers and academics.’ She called on big business politicians who are followers of regular jobs to vote against the government's proposal. Such confusing and mixed messages have been a lot of it. Who is not a part of regular jobs? The government is also. Permanent employment is the general rule and must remain the general rule of the labour market. Fighting the abuse of the duration of temporary contracts by the State sector while at the same time being concerned with the need for more people to try and get a foothold in the labour market is not contradictory. The majority parties will not have a temporary working life for years, as we often see in state institutions and in academia. That is why we are pleased that a legislative committee has recently been set up to assess whether the Civil Service Act can be renewed and simplified. The Civil Service Act dates back to 1983, and the labour and government sectors have changed a lot in the last 30 years. In note, the majority of the parties ask the government to ensure that the sample assesses the provisions of the Civil Service Act on temporary employment and indicates that the use of temporary employment is highest in the State sector. It is desirable to reduce the use of the longest temporary employment in the country. On the right, there is a concern about the work environment law. The law is important to ensure the health, environment and safety of workers. It shall ensure safer working conditions, equal treatment and contribute to an inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3432	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3435	I am a little surprised at where some representatives from the Right pick up the knowledge from. On 20 March, a new research report was published by Fafo and the labour market in the Nordic countries was compared in terms of temporary employment. What is clearly there is that in Norway, which has strict rules for temporary employment, there is a far greater chance of getting a permanent job if you are unemployed than you have if you are temporarily employed in Sweden. The figures are quite clear that temporary employment acts as a springboard into working life if the rules around it are strict and you do not allow temporaryity as a general rule – as in Norway, where you do if it is actually a temporary situation. This is one of the latest research reports that have studied how this works with different laws in very similar labour markets. Unfortunately, the government's party is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3442	I must honestly admit that I have really great problems in understanding the reluctance to temporary employment. I've been sitting on the Stortinget for nine and a half years. In eight red-green years I heard a lot of talk about all those who were standing outside, and how they were going to get in. I can't see that there were any results. I wonder what the world this opposition is living in. Is there no one from this opposition who has children at the age when they are applying for a job? I have two children at that age, and they've been looking for the jam for 100 permanent jobs. They don't get a regular job – but they both got a temporary job. And after the temporary employment period was over, they got into a permanent job. It was getting a foot within it was all about. That is why I ask my children's friends how they have got a job. Then everyone replies either, "I started in a vikariat.", "I got a temporary position.", "I started in a part-time job.", or "I got a job via my mom or dad." And these are kids with no holes in the CV. These are young people who don't have a disability. Nevertheless, they need to go through a temporary position. Then it becomes important that we get as many such jobs as possible to try out in the workplace. I've heard the statements from the opposition: you don't get a loan in a temporary position. Why do they never say that you don't get a loan without a job? I never hear that – and then it's not even true. Both my children received a loan for housing in their temporary jobs. You have to stop saying that it is not possible to get a loan in a temporary position, because that is not correct. So I've been wondering why it's so important for the opposition to keep people out. I've been especially concerned with them with drug problems and mental disorders. How much haven't we talked about the R in the LAR? And what's the criticism all the time? They're not allowed to participate in society, they're not going to be part of what the rest of us view as a normal everyday life. Then they must have that opportunity! As an employer, people need to be tried out. I have been an employer myself. I didn't dare take many chances, but where I could take in temporary workers, I did. That's when I got to know people, and I gave them a firm position. A permanent job is what employers want most, and it should be at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3456	Today is a good day, as the majority of the population will adopt a more modern and forward-looking work environment law — while some people are in doubt in the 1970s. But the world has moved on. In the case of temporary employment, we take care of all those who are out of work today. They care about the Progress Party and the Cooperation Parties. We want to give those who are out of work a chance by letting them try. It has to be much better than not to get in at all. This is also about dignity, about being allowed to participate, about feeling that someone needs each one, about being able to test out businesses, about being able to take in extra staff and employees for a period when, for example, an order means that you need extra help. In such a case, temporary employment can be a good solution, rather than imposing extra overtime on permanent employees, if appropriate. After such a relationship, you will often end up in permanent employment. In any case, the general rule shall remain permanent. In addition, there will be rice behind the rear-view mirror: if you use the possibility of temporarily hiring up to 12 months, there will be a quarantine period. So you're going to grab hold of it. There will be no abuse. The promotion party is concerned that as much as possible should be included in the labour market. The working party has had the slogan «All shall join». Obviously, they do not mean ‘into the labour market’. I miss their commitment to those outside. Clearly, neither the Workers' Party nor the trade union movement are concerned that more people are given the opportunity to participate and receive a labour income. In the case of an activity obligation, it also means caring. I've talked to more people who are passive receivers today. Several of these say that they feel that they are a burden to society. They would like to contribute, but they cannot stand up from their situation and search for a 100 pst position – but they would like to contribute a little. Many of these people will do something and contribute – and feel that they are worth something. The Progress Party and the Cooperation Parties will lower the entry steps into the labour market so that more people can participate. Today, the entry into the labour market — and, gradually, the permanent jobs — is too high for some. We don't want many people out of work to keep falling at that threshold. We want to make the step as low and affordable as possible, so that more people get the opportunity. When a Labour Party representative – Lauvås – from this pulpit calls this a harsh, blue-blue right-wing policy and a sad development, it is a very special greeting to those who are outside and now have the opportunity. I'm happy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3477	It was claimed that we are wrong, we who are opposed to today's proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act. Some even claim that we conduct policies from the 1970s. If we are wrong, there are also 1.7 million organized workers in the Union, in the YS, in the LO and in the Academics who are wrong, because in their statements related to changes in the Work Environment Act, they are crystal clear: they don't want them. The research suggests that this will not lead to more permanent employees, on the contrary, more temporary employees. I thought this government was concerned with knowledge, because they claim that they are the knowledge parties, but the research that is behind, and that in many ways can tell us something about how this will turn out, suggests that the right parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have used arguments here today, are wrong. So to another thing, about this with general activity obligations for all social welfare recipients. There's probably a cost of about half a billion dollars on the first proposal from the Right. The KS peaks also point out that this will lead to more bureaucracy and less user-oriented Nav follow-up. Yes, even so, labour and welfare director Joakim Lystad says that the proposal will lead to more bureaucracy and less follow-up. When I'm in my usual job, I actually work in Nav. I draw contracts every week in workplaces and accommodation sites. And let me underline for Stortinget: We are talking about contracts – a mutual contract between employer, user/employee and Nav. When you talk about getting poor follow-up from Nav, it's actually that you can't approve this practice if you don't have an organization guarantee signed by the Nav staff, for example. me, who then has a responsibility to follow up the individual who has been outsourced in practice. So when some representatives say here from this pulpit that it's not contractual, it's wrong. Finally, the Labour Party is for the exercise of discretion in the field of the obligation to provide social assistance for beneficiaries but for the obligation to engage in red tape. In addition, there are many people who are actually not fit to work now, but who may eventually want to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3490	There has been a long and interesting debate, and it seems to be a long day, so I hope we raise the question mark tomorrow morning. There have been a good deal of paradoxes during the debate. According to the Workers' Party, temporary employment is all right as long as you are employed under the terms of the Workers' Party. It is also okay for the Workers' Party that you are temporarily employed if you become a member of staff via Nav, but if you find your own job, other than Nav, it is not possible to be a temporary employee. It's a strange logic. There's also been a lot of special arguments here today. It has been heard that we are now creating a labour society, some believe that there are undemocratic changes we are making, it will increase crime, it will make workers stand up with lua in hand, we rage the welfare state, we disassemble the Norwegian model, we will engage in forced labour – there is no way for terror propaganda. But the strangest argument, I'd say, is the gender equality argument -- that now that we're making more people have the opportunity to get into the world of work, it's going to weaken equality. Some of the representatives of the Labour Party have gone so far as to say that after today Norway can no longer boast of being an equal country because we are doing some careful decorations in the Working Environment Act. I'm a strong supporter of equality, but I thought one of the most important steps to have equality is to ensure that people are economically independent, so that you can make your own choices, without being dependent on others. If there's something we're doing today, it's that several of those who are out of work are now going to be able to get a job and thus be financially independent. This will actually help to strengthen equality. There have also been other arguments, such as: that, for some special reason, the proposals we are making today – which will help get more people to work – will lead to the loss of tax revenue. I record that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left think new and are willing to adjust and improve the arrangements they have. We do that because we're fighting for more people to have the opportunity to get a job. But I also record that for tactical reasons the opposition fights against and chooses to fail the 650 000 people who are out of work and who really want and could need a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3505	I want to comment on some of the things that have been said. I register, among other things: much reference is made to the OECD report on the issue of temporary employment. However, the same OECD report also shows that temporary employment can be a stepping stone in the labour market. The same OECD report also points out and recommends that the protection of permanent staff should be reduced. I disagree with the OECD report in this area. I expect and assume that also the opposition and the Workers' Party, when they use the OECD report in this way, do not agree with the OECD to weaken the employment protection for permanent employees. That's what makes the connection not good enough when it comes to the transition to work. After all, you should read the entire report, read it carefully and get all the assumptions on which the OECD report is based. At least it would give a more informative, knowledge-based and correct debate. I record that the representative Holen Bjørdal says that we do not actually have the support of those who want to help the weak. That support and the clear voice of this debate from among others. Eddie Eidsvåg and the Pub project are really a good example that this can be a good and proper tool to help more people with holes in the CV and give them an arena to try out in the workplace. So to the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, who says that it is stigmatizing to introduce a general duty of activity: I disagree with the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, at this point. I think you can meet people in two ways: The fact that you have expectations for people is taking people seriously. The fact that you have faith in people is taking people seriously. Making demands on people shows that you have expectations for them and believe in them. Not having those expectations is meeting people with indifference. I mean, the worst thing you can do is meet people with indifference. It's stigmatizing in my head. That stigmatisation I don't want to contribute to. The obligation of activity does not apply only to the recipient of social assistance. It also requires municipalities to facilitate meaningful activity and proper social follow-up so that those people can get out of a situation of inactivity and social assistance more quickly. Young people we have met and talked to include: in the Mountain Municipality, which now practises the scheme adopted by the Stortinget today, says that it was absolutely essential that they get out of that situation and into a working situation. It helped them get on with it. I want all municipalities to be like Fjell municipality. Every municipality has to take those people seriously. All municipalities should have an obligation to facilitate meaningful activity, and we should have the same expectations for people – regardless of whether they live in one municipality or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3520	I'm now drawing on the tape because I want to take into account two trends I don't like in the debate. The first trend is the one that some representatives have, to say that we need to give priority between getting different groups into work, that is, choosing between different groups. It may be the representative Lundtigen, who points out that we need to give Norwegian citizens priority over EEA immigrants, or the representative Else-May Botten, from the Labour Party, who says that we have to choose between youth and 72-year-olds. My view is that the labour market is not a zero-sum game. It's not that if we get a youth to work, an older worker can't be on the job for a long time. It is not that if an EEA immigrant has the opportunity to work in Norway, it is a youth who loses the same opportunity. There was a game that once had the slogan 'All Shells'. It seemed to me to be a good guide to getting people to work. Those who want to work will have the opportunity to work. The second tendency I don't like is that of many representatives from the red-green opposition to say that all research shows that they're right. One should be very skeptical to politicians who say just that. Some time ago, the Institute of Labour Research at the University of Oslo and Akershus, on behalf of the UNIO, went through the research that exists — from Norway and from other countries — on the theme of ‘interventional additions’. It was a difficult study and a difficult review. Here they point to some studies that show that the smoothing of the temporary settings rules reduces your unemployment. They point to other studies, which show that softening the code results in more fixed settings. But they also point to studies that do not confirm the same trend. What is the summation of this difficult work? Well, the summary is that research does not provide clear answers, and that this is largely about politics and not so much about research. Sometimes it's like that. There is a big difference between the Spanish and Norwegian labour markets. There are differences between high economic activity countries and low economic activity countries. There is a difference between land with a high level of protection against land and land with a low level of protection against land disembarkation. What we have to do is make our own experiences. What we have from experience with temporary settings in Norway is that they're a stepping stone into a permanent job. Now the big crowd gives a new place to give people the chance to try. We're going to follow closely what development is like, it's going to go away, and we're going to have experience. But when you're in a situation where not all of the research shows the cork one or the other, you can choose the way that the red-green ones do, and sit quietly and don't let them do anything, or you can choose the way the big crowds do, and try the measures that we have the greatest faith in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3540	It was said here that some of the most hopeless posts that were held here were those that were about equality. I would rather recommend the representative of Wiborg to knock on the door of the Equality Ombudsman, the Labour Inspectorate or, for that matter, the Labour Research Institute, and tell you how hopeless what is in their hearing opinions about equality and the consequences for equality between men and women and the consequences for pregnant women in temporary positions. That's a part that you don't like here. I guess that might be mutual. I have to say that I like it very badly when the representative Bente Stein Mathisen stands here and says that our posts have contained untruths. So I'm going to challenge Bente Stein Mathisen now if she has one minute left of speaking time: come up here and tell me what was untruths in those posts that include. I have kept in this matter! I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry when it's about duty of activity for social welfare recipients, because taking people seriously is about giving rights, but also about imposing duties. Seeing people, seeing people's opportunities is about taking people seriously. It was precisely the qualification programme that social welfare beneficiaries were set up for when it was adopted — with one important dimension in addition to what is proposed here today, namely that the willingness to engage in qualification activity was also premiered in the form of a higher social benefit. It was the Progress Party against. They voted against the introduction of the qualifying aid and voted against it in several budgets thereafter. I do not manage with my best will to see what is better with the obligation of activity without a penny extra than what the Progress Party in its time agreed to try to vote down, but which now turns out to work precisely because it is individually arranged. It is no more than two years since the activity obligation was investigated last time. At that time, the conclusion was that there was an obligation to operate. It's used. It is used where the municipalities and case handlers think it is appropriate. There is a little variation between, for example: large and small municipalities. Proba social analysis, which wrote that report, thought that it might be possible that in small municipalities the conditions are transparent, and it is easier to have a close individual follow-up of the individual. So it may be that it varies, because it is in the Nav office that some case handlers are responsible for between 100 and 200 users. [[President clubs]] Put the money there.... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3553	I must ask that speaking time be respected, especially at this time in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3556	The council made a very strong statement in my opinion. He said that we have now received a government that takes people seriously, as opposed to earlier where people were met with indifference. That's a very strong statement. I agree that under the red-green it was not done enough for those people who need assistance from Nav. The active substances were not good enough. But to characterize those of us here who are working to improve the conditions of those who need community assistance in such a way is quite strong. I have not seen so much money from the current government and so many more jobs and at all so much more commitment to it. So we can see when it's been a year, if the result is relative to the sharp statements. Otherwise to the representative Rotevatn, who said that he reacted to a tendency that one began to choose between different groups, and that the central party stands for a vision where one should separate in such a way that one makes an extra effort for Norwegian citizens and not for all citizens who are in Norway: what was my main post, and which is my post, is that we should school the inhabitants who are in Norway, expand the workforce and the opportunity that they have. The fact that the Centre Party opposes the free movement of labour across borders is a real point of view. I would have asked that going in for the regulation of the cross-border movement of labour should be something inappropriate – something rude. It is, in our opinion, a necessary tool to ensure the totality we need. I am not surprised that the new Left with the representative Rotevatn, who is responsible for his economic liberalism, is responding to that. But for us, it's important to do this. Otherwise, for zero-sum games, it is perfectly obvious that if you manage to drive pay and work conditions down in Norway, more of us who have a lot of purchasing power will require more services. As a result, there will be more jobs. But that's not what we want. We want everyone to have Norwegian pay and working conditions, for everyone should be able to live decently from a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3567	I would like to comment on Rotevatn's comments, because the representative said that we need to base our own experience. I think we have a lot of experience with tripartite cooperation in Norway. I'm going to repeat that again and again, because it's important for the government to start listening more to the social partners – listen and perhaps learn, but also to include in the policy design what comes from there. I think today's case would have been better and more forward looking on the table here today, if the government had. So for research. I think from what I have heard today in the debate and before, Rotevatn and Eriksson are good at research, especially brother-in-law research. But when we talk about the research that shows that increased temporaryity will not give more jobs, I think they might need to hear a little more after. For how many are now saying that this date will be Christmas Eve because this decision made them get a job? Can the Council of State say how many of the 600,000 who are out of work, who are going to get into the labour market with this? What kind of research, what kind of numbers do you have to refer to here? And on what premises? Will they get a foot within with their wise heads and hands – with lower wages, less work and less responsibilities for the employer? Or is it safer working life, better flexibility for the employee, not the employer? Where is the weight in the balance of power that you add up here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3574	Bente Stein Mathisen has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3578	I was encouraged to take the word again to answer about this with falsehood. What I said in my post was that I referred to the untruths and the massive campaign that has been taking place in the last few months of the LO and the left. It is because the government believes that there will be more Sunday work, there will be more working hours, that you will have to work longer, more overtime. That's not true. That's the same number of Sundays you have with today's legislation, which is in the new proposal. It's just that you can work a little more in groups – that is, you can have several Sundays in a row, and you can work three Sundays in a row. The same applies to overtime. That's what I referred to, which has been untruths that have been spreading in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3583	The next speaker is the representative Dag Terje Andersen, who is the last recorded. He bears a great responsibility for bringing the debate to a close.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3586	It should have gotten out. The reason I considered it this way that I had to ask for the word completely summarizing was the input of the Council of State. He pointed out to me and that I had said that the duty of activity was stigmatizing. What I tried to warn against was more general than that. I talked about the mention of a bloc of 650 000 people standing outside. I also talked about those who are involved in the obligation of activity. I'm talking about all those who, for some reason, need the help of society. My impression is that the Council of State quite often stigmatises several of those groups by pointing to responsibility, but not to rights. The duty of activity is one such thing. But let me stress: we are in today's type of activity obligation. We think it's right to make demands when that's what can contribute to them and their development. Otherwise, I just have to state at the end of the debate that general access to temporary employment will be adopted, and a number of other changes to the Working Environment Act that we have discussed earlier today, against the Trade Councils of the State Councils have received from their own department's underlying offices. In the course of the debate, we have tried to find answers as to whether there is any example of general access to temporary employment actually leading to more people getting a job. No, it does not — neither from OECD studies nor from other examples. I can then conclude from the point of view of what Mr Rotevatn quite rightly said, that there is a great difference between Spanish and Norwegian working life. Yes, there is a serious difference, not least in terms of unemployment rates, in terms of the measures selected by Norway and the measures chosen by Spain. But in fact, in the case of temporary employment and some of the changes that are going to be adopted today in the Working Environment Act, the difference in Norwegian and Spanish employment policies is actually a little less after the decisions that the Storting will make today. We're going to vote against that from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3597	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3600	When the representative Else May Botten owes me for "sugar research," it's not my fault, but the University of Oslo and Akershus and the Institute of Labour Research there, which was the one I mentioned. And if she absolutely wants references to the concrete research reports, she can look at Faccini from 2013, which shows that temporary settings reduce unemployment within what they have seen, or Nunziata and Staffolani from 2007, which show that it leads to more fixed settings. Then there are some reports that don't show the same thing, and then the point is that all research doesn't show anything unambiguously here, and in the big review, one can't clearly conclude in one direction or another. But then you shouldn't pretend that's the case either. That is why I will end with something that has been asked: what is the untruth that is going on in the debate. It's been a lot outside this house. But there are three things that have been said today, and I believe everything has been said by representatives of the Workers' Party: All research shows that – no, that's wrong. More overtime is required - no, it is wrong. One now wants to equate temporary and fixed settings – and at least there are errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3609	The next and last speaker is Mr Wiborg, who is the rapporteur on the matter and therefore still has a speaking time of 3 minutes – up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3612	I understand the hint from the president. I am just going to end the debate on equality, because the gender equality argument has not been used only against the section on temporary employment. The equality argument has also been used against the average calculation, it has been used against the tour arrangements, it has been used against the veto right that we remove, etc. My simple question, then, is how do women lose their sense of commitment to activity? How do women lose that, if they want to, you can work more in some periods in exchange for more freedom in other periods? How do women lose power and influence at the expense of key trustees? It shows that there are no teams in those arguments. Fortunately, the representative Else May Botten was very honest, because there has been a big discussion about how many people are actually out of work, and the Labour Party has criticized the government and signed for claiming and showing that more than 600,000 are out of work – something that the Red-Green Government was also clear in the perspective. So I'm very happy that Else May Bottom at least at the end of the debate gave us the right idea that there are 600,000 outside. But the representative Dag Terje Andersen also talked about research and wondered what research exists. Everyone agrees that cross-border research is difficult to compare because there are different rules in force. But we can go to Norway. Two out of three receive permanent employment after being temporarily employed for two years. It shows, as I said, that temporary employment is a springboard. Then I am pleased with the law we adopt today, and I also assume that this law should be interpreted flexibly, for the benefit of both the employer and the employee. But a good summary of the debate came when the former State Secretary of the Workers' Party, whom I mentioned instead, Stein Lier Hansen – I record that no one from the Workers' Party has commented on his statement – was clear in the Newspaper. He said, «I think they exaggerate the matter very much.» So he was talking about the Workers' Party and the LO, and he went on: ‘I think the changes proposed are a modernisation that adapts the law to a more modern and flexible society’. [[...]] That's what the Big One is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3635	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3649	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to up to three lines of response following submissions from the main speakers of the parties and three lines of response from the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3658	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for a quick and constructive feedback along the way in their work. Although not everyone agrees, it is my opinion that the members of the Committee have a fundamental respect for each other's views. Prop. 55 S concerns minimum requirements for strengthening worker mobility between Member States by improving performance and continuing the right to supplementary pensions. The aim of the Directive is to facilitate the exercise by workers of the right to freedom of movement and to contribute to the mobility of workers by reducing the obstacles arising from certain rules on supplementary pension entitlements linked to employment. In the field of pensions, the social security of workers is ensured through statutory social security schemes together with supplementary occupational pension schemes, which are increasingly common in European countries. In many ways, it is natural to view Europe as a single labour market where people in different countries find work across national borders. When unemployment increases in one European country, many people choose to move to another to get a job. This gives many families a better life. In recent years, European countries have had close cooperation in the university and higher education sectors to coordinate and develop common understanding of academic degrees and character systems. This makes it easier to seek work in other European countries because two training courses can be compared. A good example is Norwegian students studying medicine in Poland, and then they return to Norway to practice. The EEA is important for Norway, and our relationship with Europe is about jobs in Norway, but also about access to the European market for business. It is important to ensure that workers are able to seek work in other European countries, therefore the obstacles to the right to free movement and mobility of workers should be reduced. It is important to stress that the Directive applies only to those workers who switch jobs across borders and not to those who change jobs within the same Member State. The Directive will have little impact on existing national legislation and rules on supplementary pension schemes, since the Norwegian rules are essentially in line with the rules of the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3689	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3696	I hope the Business Committee spends a little less time than the previous committee. In the case we are now going to consider – a proposal from the representative of Mr Rasmus Hansson on the minimum three years of growth in the farming industry – the Committee's position shows that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee, which is really very much in agreement. Then it is probably possible that Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA, and SV will come forward with some proposals and justify those proposals, but I will deal with what has been the subject of the Industry Committee. Let me first fix two errors in the setting. In the event of an incurrence, the Workers' Party has fallen out of the note where it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party, believes that the growth of the farming industry needs to be oriented to allow for a diversity of actors in the industry in the future.’ So the Labour Party is going to be in there, and then there's going to be a unanimous committee in that area. That means that a setting where there is already a large degree of consensus becomes even more unanimous. In addition, the Working Party shall enter a note that reads: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left stress the importance of protecting the interests of fisheries in the preparation of new conditions for growth in the farming industry.’ So that's where the Working Party has to go. This gives me the opportunity to explain why the Advance Party and the Right are not involved in that comment. This does not mean that we are opposed to the fishing industry, but we take into account the local self-government and the municipal spatial plans that regulate that industry. It's important for us to get there, and that's why we found out that it wasn't right to go into that comment. As indicated in the submission, an overall committee refers to the importance of the industry for food production and the Norwegian economy. We also refer to the happy export figures for 2014, which are close to 70 billion. kr, in which salmon and trout form an important part. Similarly, good activity in the industry is important for coastal settlements, and this means a great deal of activity along the coast, even in areas that are economically weak. This, as said, has a major impact on value creation, both nationally and locally. So it's that the production of food also has a climate accounting. The production of farmed salmon and trout is a climate-friendly way of producing food and contributing positively to the climate accounts. It might be worth thinking a little bit about for the Green Party. The Committee is very concerned that growth should take place in an environmentally sustainable and good manner. The Committee also points out that the industry has some challenges, some bigger than others. This with lice is a big challenge, and the industry is already taking hold. The government also takes many steps in this way. The same applies to escape, disease and risk of disease spreading. When we discussed this position in the committee, we also showed that the government had sent out to consult proposals for a new communication. It ended on 10 January, and last Friday the government sent a message to Stortinget. That debate is coming at a later stage, so I hope that today's debate does not begin to concern itself with a communication that has just come to the Stortinget, and on which the Stortinget will have a thorough and good discussion, but that we are dealing with the proposal for a representative that is being debated today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3724	The marine industry is an industry that has grown large and important, and this means that we have had many debates in this room about both the size of the industry and how sustainable it has been. Three years ago, a rather rough report came from the National Audit Office on the management of the aquaculture industry. During the period from that report and until we debated it in Stortinget – at that time it had been about two years – great improvements had been seen in how the industry took on the challenges of its growth. And almost every day, we get examples of the industry taking the challenges that are coming, and evolving in the right direction. With regard to the Green Party's proposal, it is a little important to point out some principles from the right: it is important to make strict demands on the industry. By making strict demands, we motivate the industry to improve. By creating predictable frameworks, we make it easier for industry to put funds for research and development at its disposal. When they can have a time horizon of several years, they can develop technology and get better. And then it's important for the Right to have a technology neutral principle here. It should be the case that strict requirements should be imposed, but setting requirements from Stortinget to the type of technology to be used can just as often go wrong as it can. So when the Environmental Party of Greens proposes that we have to have technology with closed installations or equivalent, we have an example from the storm ‘Ove’ earlier this year, where the closed mermaid – Aquadom – that was launched, as an attempt, actually failed to make the impressions it got there. If it had been filled with fish, it might have happened – but we don't know – that we had had a rather broken situation. It's important from the right to point out that we have to make strict demands. There shall be a predictable framework for the industry, in which case it will develop best. But technology neutrality is an important principle for the Right, because then it is the industry and the actors who choose the best solutions, and in our opinion it is difficult to choose policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3737	The marine industry is a very important industry for many coastal communities, both in terms of employment and value creation. The Christian People's Party wants a high-growth and strong aquaculture industry. At the same time, further growth and control with negative environmental impacts from farms are required. A five-fold increase in biomass, outlined by both the previous and seated government, cannot lead to a five-fold increase in the escape, lice and climate and environmental impact. As the rapporteur went on to say, before the weekend the government presented its big message on the aquaculture industry. We're not going to take the discussion here now, but still: the main message was that it was going to facilitate growth for the actors who controlled the lice. The government outlines a traffic light model in which the areas below the lice become green and thus grow, and those below the lice receive either yellow, which does not produce growth, or red, which permits parts of the production. The traffic light model is a good model as long as the requirements are good. It is clear that the Christian People's Party has a slightly different approach to industrial policy than the Green Party. The Christian People's Party believes that the state should set a strict framework for the industry, including: related to environmental and climate footprint. As long as operators remain within these limits, there shall be scope for operation and growth. Any state intervention in the industry in the form of cessation of operation or growth must be due to a failure to comply with the requirements imposed by the State. What the government puts forward in the farm communication is to give motivation and carrots to bet on environmental technologies. Those who take action and deliver good results on established environmental indicators are growing. At the same time, those who don't care will be reduced in production. The Green Party's proposals, which we are debating today, will actually have the opposite effect. At the same time, a three-year cessation of growth will result in a three-year cessation of environmental technologies in this field. With the Greens' proposals, farmers will receive no or little reward for environmental technological progress, as they will receive the same growth as their neighbours, which will not contribute to development. In other words, companies that are leading the way as practitioners of environmental and climate responsibility, to which the Green Party is committed, will be in the same category as those who do not care. I do not think that is a good idea, and I do not think that is the intention of the Greens. I recognise the environmental exposure of the Green Party. There is no doubt that there is a strong desire to adapt the aquaculture industry to the environment — and not the other way around. This fully shares the Christian People's Party. That is why we would rather set stricter requirements for breeders, and for those who do not deliver in line with the indicators that we will later discuss. At the same time, however, it is essential to facilitate environmental technologies and sustainability. It doesn't just work with whips, which look just as hard on everyone, no matter what you do or what results you can refer to. We have to give whips to those who don't follow the rules, and carrots to those who are nice. In this way, the Christian People's Party believes that we can set the framework for creating the world's best and most sustainable aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3754	Breeding is a great and important industry for our country. In the Central Party, we have recently had a national meeting. There was this one of the things we discussed. We launched policies and new arguments that we'll come back to when we're dealing with the aquaculture message here in this room. The centre party has a positive attitude towards the farming industry. We have faith in growth for the industry, but it has to happen in a sustainable way. Previous lice and escape are mentioned as the most well-known and major challenges facing the industry. But I also think that in a future growth for the farming industry, you have to assume that there will be land conflicts. There is an interest against shipping, there is an interest against the fishing industry and other land conflicts. The Centerpartiet believes it is very important that you have the municipalities on hand, and that part of the value creation remains in the municipality in the form of a land tax. In addition, it is important for the Centre that the growth of the aquaculture industry takes place in a way that ensures that we have a diversity of actors – large, small, medium-sized. The breeding industry has shown that there is a high-capacity industry to find and deploy new technologies to meet the challenges it is facing. But there is also an industry that I believe needs to be kept in a tight grip, which needs strict demands. I believe that a good example of how the aquaculture industry is able to grips with it is the statistics on antibiotic use in the farming industry, which are now roughly equal to zero. The centre party will not support the proposals put forward in this matter, but we look forward to having a debate on the notification of aquaculture both within the Committee and in the Stortinget, and we are committed to finding good solutions for the aquaculture industry that sustains sustainability but also ensures something that is very important for the aquaculture industry, namely stability in the framework conditions. I think it is important for the industry that we are able to reach the widest possible agreement on what should be the framework conditions for an industry that is actually very important for food production in Norway and for its future tax receipts and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3767	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the examination of the matter and the work of the Committee. Marine farming is one of Norway’s most important industries today, and will become even more important in the coming years. But one of the most important prerequisites for that to be so, and for that to happen, is that the industry gets rid of the lice situation, with escape and with the use of chemicals. This is absolutely central to the Left, and I have addressed these challenges on several occasions, both from this pulpit and in other contexts. That is why I fully agree with the rapporteur, Mr Hansson, that binding and predictable environmental requirements must be imposed on the farming industry, which makes the operation really sustainable over the coming years. However, I do not agree that an action should be taken to stop three years of growth. With the high importance of the aquaculture industry for many coastal communities, it is difficult to imagine that the answer will be a complete cessation of growth. It will affect areas of the country where there is no factual basis for doing so. I do not think there is any real basis for doing so from an economic perspective, from a district perspective or from an environmental point of view. But, so, continued growth can't happen without conditions. I am pleased that an overall committee believes that there is reason to impose stricter conditions than today: that more research and development is needed to address environmental problems in the aquaculture industry, that there is a need to impose requirements on plants that can withstand more weather and wind, and that can minimise the risk that farmed fish can escape the fact that more research is being done on ‘close’ installations both on land and at sea, that it is about how detoxifying agents contaminate other marine environments. So all of this says an overall committee – and it commits! Norway has a special comparative advantage in marine industries. As a nation, we are in a special position by being over large sea areas that have been – and are – the basis of our oil-dependent economy. In addition, we manage rich fishing resources and have a coastline that is well suited for aquaculture. I do not want us to squander away the natural advantages of the Norwegian coastal zone for farming in the sea, but I do not ignore the fact that large parts of the production should be done on land. With the resources available to Norway, I also assume that we should use our marine food resources to contribute to world food production. Norwegian seafood products are in demand internationally, and most countries have under-covered self-produced seafood. As a producer of a high-quality product, the industry has the resources to build skills and technologies that contribute to increased food availability in other parts of the world. This, together with the fact that the aquaculture industry, like the other seafood sector, is an important district industry, requires a further effort on the marine sector – but therefore under conditions. Land tax, which is mentioned by others in the debate, will come back to us in the context of the handling of the aquaculture notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3804	A message about marine farming comes, so this gives us the first opportunity to predict where SV stands on these questions. The industry is, as many have called, important to Norway, and it is far more important than very many believe. I think that if you were to feed the North only on farmed fish, you could feed Norway times ten – that’s a huge food. But she hasn't come into being yet, and that's the question of the Environmental Party The Greens in this case: how are we going to do it? I think it's a little weird to think that the industry is going to adapt without demand. What happened to the industry in the 1980s was that they got strict, tough demands with tough sanctions. Through those sanctions, we got the technology that also made the waste a high-value product, which is now the main production in several of Norway's industrial cities. There is therefore a link between imposing strict environmental requirements and getting an efficient and competitive industry. We don't have that in Norway, we haven't done that yet in Norway. We can only see that by looking at the amount of money spent on research and development – 1 pst. of turnover. According to social geography, where they rank what's low tech and high tech, qualify 1 pst. of the turnover of low tech. One has to go into 3 pst. to be high tech. So even if the industry makes a lot of interest on the technology front and the research front, this is very small. We need to be at a completely different level if we're going to get the industry we want and that can be the organic zero-emission industry that we want it to be. It will have a major impact both on prices, on the environment and on quality and will ensure this industry a place in competition internationally. The goal is an organic zero-emission industry that lives in co-existence with the environment and local communities, and ownership is not confined to cities far away from the coast but to the coast and to Norway. This must not be an industry characterised by large emissions and damage to the environment, driven by operators with head offices far, far away. We've still not been able to get to Norway. When we made an own proposal in SV, delivered today early, in this case, it was because we could not support the entire proposal of the Green Environment Party. We don't understand why to have a three-year time horizon for a growth stop. After all, growth needs to be stopped until the problems are resolved, and then one at the same time as one has a growth stop, an ambitious government research, development and technology programme must be launched in collaboration with the industry that will solve the problem. Then we can start getting an industry that comes up at the high tech level we want. And then we're not just talking about salmon and aure, which is the first thing we think about when we think about farming, which is 99 pst. by the whole of this industry. And then all of a sudden we can imagine a completely different amount of the aquaculture industry, but then the premise is that it's going to be in the bearer's power. But nothing happens unless we as legislators make tough demands before growth can happen. There is also something of the background that Marine Harvest has now resigned from the FHL. There is speculation as to why they have signed out, but according to their press release, they think that the requirements of the FHL are too weak. They want much more stringent requirements both from the industry itself and from government authorities, because they want to get an industry that looks forward and that moves towards the economy. At least I hope that the parties that think we should have an unbearable goal of a sustainable farming industry can take a look at the loose proposal from SV and support it, so that we can mark the direction ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3821	The President then perceives it as yours that the representative Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3824	The Green Party promotes the proposal for environmentally-based growth cessation in the farming industry because the growth of the farming industry is the key to both the environmental problems created by the industry and to get the industry to take these problems seriously. On the day the farming industry does not grow until it has solved its environmental problems, the farming industry solves the environmental problems. Over the last decades, Norwegian farming industry has over and over again assured that only in a short time will it have solved its environmental problems, and that there is no danger to wild species, marine trout or local fauna. It's now a thousand times more farmed salmon than wild salmon along the Norwegian coast. Leak resistance, leaching agents release, plant waste, escape, non-reporting and non-tracking potential continue to damage wild salmon, sea trout, crustaceans and ecosystems. In addition, the problems of fishing welfare are increasing. So even though lice and escape as a percentage of the farming industry are falling, the growth is making sure that the pressures on the natural environment of the coast remain unsustainable. Storing and governments have repeatedly announced, and adopted, zero visions, action plans, measures and regulations, but they have refused to implement the kind of measures and clear demands and responses that we know work. The result is so bad that various fisheries ministers should blush. The size knows well how to clean up industries. As the representative of Fylkesnes just pointed out, from the late 1970s Norway carried out a great cleaning process in the Norwegian industry. Emissions of all types of pollution decreased dramatically and the mechanism was clear requirements, cash enforcement and unsentimental responses. The result was brilliant and to the delight of absolutely all. That is why the Green Party is proposing to use the environmentally logical instrument in the farming industry, which speaks the language that the farming industry will understand the best: halt the growth of environmental problems has been solved! We are therefore disappointed that the business committee so little reflects on our proposal. We are particularly disappointed because I expect that more committee members than the SV representative Fylkesnes have found out that Marine Harvest announced on Friday 20 March that they have signed up for the Fisheries and Aquaculture Association, among others. because of what they call FHL's uncritical growth focus. Marine Harvest writes: The potential in the industry is enormous, but the industry has to face the challenge it is facing, seriously before the big growth can come. In other words, those in the nutrition committee who are concerned about the economic perspective of imposing tough environmental requirements on the farming industry are in the vanguard of the world’s largest breeders. We hope, therefore, that there will be a much more thorough discussion of the environmental situation in the farming industry when the breeding notification is addressed. It is encouraging that that message alerts a more systematic environmental management of the industry than we have seen from previous governments of various colors. But the crucial thing remains whether there is a willingness to make sufficiently clear demands that the industry sees itself worthy of follow-up. For example, a traffic light system is proposed, which is a good idea in itself, but which gets fine little effect if it is in practice on green all the time. When it is proposed not to apply measures until at least 30 pst. of the wild game population die from lice infection, a non-functional instrument is proposed. And if waste and escape are not even to be included as environmental indicators, it will mean that another government is careful to serve the farming industry environmental cosmetics. I encourage the Committee to test whether these indicators meet its objectives by applying them to the critical loop situation that we had in the summer of 2014. If the proposed system of the Storing Communication is to have any hope of working for the future, the state of the environment in 2014 should result in blood-red lights along large parts of the coast and extensive slaughtering to reduce the lice pressure. So once again, when the Minister of Fisheries is falsifying about fivefold Norwegian farming, I hope she and the Committee will also lend ear to the world's largest and most professional breeder, Marine Harvest, who is saying – and I repeat: the industry must take the challenges it faces, seriously before the big growth can come. This is about further developing Norway’s second largest export industry in an environmentally sustainable way. Since the Economic and Social Committee has not decided to vote on our proposals, I am promoting them as a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3850	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3854	It has been said very wisely about the importance of industry and the importance of developing industry in a greener direction in order for it to grow further. The Committee points out in its position the importance of the farming industry for food production and for coastal areas in terms of employment and also points out that all food production places footprints in nature. We have to accept that the farming industry has a certain impact on the environment around it. I believe that sustainable food production is one of the most sensible things we can use the Norwegian coast and the sea for. Last Friday we presented a new bigmouth message – Predictable and environmentally sustainable growth in Norwegian salmon and trout top. The Communication proposes to link capacity changes in Norwegian salmon and trout top hops to a modular system with an action rule in production areas – a system based on an action rule, where industry will have predictability, and that one will know which criteria must be met in order to achieve growth, how often growth should be assessed and what happens when the environmental impact is acceptable, moderate or unacceptable. A system of established environmental indicators provides strong incentives to operate environmentally sustainable and to invest in production technologies and modes of operation that contribute to the environmental footprint of the industry not increasing in proportion to production. The marine industry affects the environment in several areas and the indicators selected in the future must reflect the status of a production area of the environmental impact in question. There must be a clear link between the environmental impact and changes in production capacity. In this way, lice is a good indicator, because there is a clear link between the number of salmon and the lice pressed on the wild fish. Then we have suggested, or said, in the message that we will start working to see if it will also be an indicator of emissions in the future. As far as escape is concerned, I will be signing in Bodø tomorrow the agreement that includes all breeders in Norway. We're in an arrangement with a mandatory fund, and we have a new regulation to make sure that we get more efficient fishing if we've escaped fish or when it's revealed in our rivers that we have an element of escaped fish that is unacceptable. It's been claimed after we made the big message, that the government will sacrifice every three wilds. Of course we don't. Should the light signal stand on green and the industry grow, it must be less than 10 pst. mortality. And then we're also clear that yellow light, between 10 and 30 pst, is not a desired state. Then we will also attack the situation to reduce the lice pressure. Many point to land-based installations and closed sea installations as solutions for the farming industry. I think this will be part of the future solutions, but not the only ones. As politicians, we should be open to different technological solutions and ensure that developments are managed according to the state of the environment, as we propose, inter alia. in the message. I think we're going to think that in the future we're going to use new land on land, but also further at sea when we get to technology development that makes it possible to have more robust facilities that withstand the impact it would be to be further off the coast. So now the big message is being processed, and we'll get back to it. But let me make it clear: we can't go on chords with nature's tolerance limits when we're going to allow this important industry to evolve further. We need predictability, but we also need a greater emphasis on environmentally sustainable framework conditions, and then I see no reason for us to stop the industry's growth potential for three years to come. So I very much agree with the point made by the Committee, that we need to focus even more on research and innovation, and we also need to have a greater expectation that the industry itself sees the importance of investing more in this area. And that's actually how the faster we get to solve some of the significant problems in the industry today, the faster the industry will also give itself the opportunity to grow further. When the representative Hansson says that the Council of State is faking about a five-fold, it's not me, but it's actually a scientific group that has pointed out that that scenario is a possible scenario, but it requires that that growth be sustainable. And I think the way industry is today, it's probably not in five years, and it might not be in ten years, because we're seeing how fast technology is going, and we're still getting new answers to how we're going to develop it in a greener direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3873	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3876	I would like to challenge the Council of State in a situation where this proposal for a cessation of farming had become a reality. The Committee states in its opinion that all food production results in an environmental impact. For the major actors, growth could take place beyond Norway’s borders, so that there will probably be a growth in the amount of farming and an environmental impact even if one had adopted a stopover here in Norway. When you hear some of the representatives in the room here quite uncritically hail a company that has the opportunity to take growth abroad, my question to the Minister for Fisheries is whether she can say something about how she assesses the overall environmental impact if one has a farm stop in Norway but moves the activity out of the country. Will it be good or bad for the environment after her assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3881	I don't think that would be wise for the environment, because I believe that today we have a farming industry that meets very strict demands from the authorities. When it was last announced growth, under the red-green government, the so-called green concession round, it was precisely with rather tough demands and expectations that it should help the industry to develop new technologies and new forms of operation that reduce the impact on the environment. When we reached the last Friday, we announced 5 pst. growth, it was with the strictest lice requirements ever, and with a maximum of two drug withdrawals. So I think we're doing what we can today to make sure that the industry gets the least impact on the environment around it. The message also states that we should put in place a regime where this should also give stronger incentives to develop the industry in that particular direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3886	The Minister made the claim that there is so much about technological developments. My claim is that it happens too little. Just look at how little is actually spent on technology development – on research and development – 1 pst. of the turnover referred to me in my post. It's equivalent to a low-tech diet. We know that a user doesn't need R & D anymore. My question to the Minister is simply: how will the Minister provide more research and development in the industry, and how will the State contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3891	We have already invested 110 million in the first two budgets. kr more combined in marine research. Then I use every opportunity to challenge the industry, and what's in the message that's now being processed in the Storting is the incentive of the times to the industry. Without investing more, and without solving the major challenges associated with lice today, you will not give yourself the opportunity to grow. A stronger incentive than that to actually invest more I don't know if it's possible to give. But I am – like the representative Knag Fylkesnes – impatient and think that the industry, which is making very good money for the time, should actually have invested even more in research and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3898	There we share insolence, and I don't believe a mere – moral – can require them to spend more on research and development. I believe that this will only happen if it is necessary to do so, if they are asked to develop more. One can only take the basic technology of breeding: it's not in the open sea. It's exactly the same technology as when my uncle started County Fish in the 1970s – the very same basic technology as it is now. That means that the progress hasn't happened, and so I react every time someone says it happens so much, because I think it's too little. I think we should both bet considerably more nationally on this programme and make even more stringent demands. So my next question is, how can this be achieved if there are no stricter demands on nutrition than what it does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3907	I think a mixture of whip and carrot – as has been said from the pulpit here – is important to get the industry to do more. I'm convinced that an industry that has ambitions to grow further will focus on what kind of opportunities you get for growth. As I said, a stronger signal than the system presented in the big shots now in Stortinget, I don't know about. Then I would like to say that in the long-term research plan, as the government presented in connection with the state budget last year, it is pointed out that the sea is one of the major areas of enabling technologies. We have also received reports that the aquaculture industry is now largely borrowing skills, lending technologies and lending offshore solutions in Norway. It's kind of this SalMars offshore mermaid, which is on the drawing board, an expression for. But new types of mercenaries are being developed, and there's a lot of exciting going on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3914	I've had the pleasure of discussing farming with a lot of fisheries ministers, and they're pretty similar in that way that they all say that here we're going to use a combination of carrots and whips, and now we're going to deal with the environmental problems in the industry using these carrots and those whips – to the extent that this exists. And it's been promised for at least 15 years that you're going to get rid of the escape, you're going to be able to track fish, you're going to get rid of the lice problems, you're going to get rid of the resistance problems, and you're going to get rid of the chemicals. So now we're here in 2015, and you haven't gotten rid of the escape, you haven't got rid of the lice problems, you haven't gotten rid of the use of chemicals, you haven't gotten rid of the resistance, and you still can't track fish. What are the instruments of this Council of State that are going to do the opposite, or do what all the other previous Fisheries Councils have promised, but have not been implemented – so actually stop these problems, as it would be a matter of course for other industries to demand that they stop, if they had something similar?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3921	I want to say that I disagree with the description that Rasmus Hansson gives, that you stand there resting. So the industry has gone through a huge growth. If one compares the proportion of fish that escapes, with the proportion of fish that stand in the sea in Norway at all times, one sees that proportion is smaller and smaller. But every escape event is one too much. That is why we are now going through the events systematically after the terrible storm that was in the West recently. We have to learn from it, we have to be better prepared and we have to look at the equipment that does not hold out, and then the authorities have to make stricter demands. I also do not agree that nothing is happening in the other areas. But, as I've said before, I'm also impatient, and the industry should also be impatient on its own behalf, because without them investing any more, they're not going to grow any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3928	The Council of State does not at all answer the question I am asking, namely, how should the measures notified by the Council of State stop environmental problems which have not actually been halted? How should she prevent the storms that come in the future from leading to new escapes? How is she supposed to make sure we can track the fish? How is she supposed to stop the resistance problems? How is she supposed to stop the lice problems? It's these promises, which have come over and over again over the last few years, that no one has ever delivered. The question is, how is the Council going to deliver on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3936	I can't answer for former state councils. I can answer for the measures that we put in place. I can answer about these escapes in the West etc.We're learning from the mistakes we've made. We have to make stricter demands if it is the equipment that does not meet such a weather. For example, in the case of resistance challenges, we have: in the last growth cycle that was brightened, said a maximum of two drug withdrawals. We focus a lot on the need to apply so-called non-medical methods. The Food Safety Authority has been given the powers they have never had before to shut down what they themselves call so-called lice factories, where you can't deal with the lice problems. I have given the Food Safety Authority extended powers, and there is a full ‘driving’ of developing methods and technologies to meet the environmental challenges facing the industry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3943	The Council of State uses exactly the argument I warned against in my speech, namely that because the percentage of environmental problems decreases in an ever-growing farming industry, there is progress. But the problem is the environmental pressure exerted on a salmon population, and on a fjord system, which does not grow percent but is subject to the same environmental pressure as before. Is the Council willing to turn the tile around and say that it is the environmental state of the ecosystem along the coast and in the wild stocks that will determine what the farming industry is allowed to do and not, and not percentages in a farming industry that is constantly allowed to grow?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3948	I fought the generalization that I believe the representative Rasmus Hansson made himself a spokesman for in his previous line. I'm the first Council of State to give a message and say that it's the sustainability that's going to determine whether the industry is going to be able to grow further. The green light is the only way this industry should be allowed to evolve further, if the Storting agrees. This means that in order to be given green light there must be an acceptable impact on the environment around it. I think that's a good way to approach this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3955	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3971	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3978	The proposal deals with the means by which we can prevent the importation of illegally obtained shark products into Norway. For Norway, as a maritime nation, it is important that imports of all species take place under the conventions and agreements we have concluded internationally. If we're going to be the world's leading seaman, and if we're going to be the world's leading seaman, it's important that we follow the agreements we've made with states outside, and that we go ahead with a good example. Norway has been a member of the CITES Convention since 1976, i.e. that we have signed international agreements aimed at controlling international trade in endangered species of animals and plants with the aim of avoiding over-taxation. The majority of the Committee has examined the matter and refers to the response of the Council of State, to which it subscribes. With regard to the proposals, I will refer to the government's conclusion. Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, which is on reprobability, is preserved in today's system of approved import licences, is the opinion of the majority. Proposal No. 3 is a proposal that goes even further than the agreements that Norway has signed today, and will first of all be quite resource-intensive and ultimately probably difficult to verify, all the time the nations we are talking about, probably do not have that information as a demand. The majority therefore conclude that CITES provides a good level of protection and therefore proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. Then I would like to add that there are comments from the minority where you go so far that you believe that we should have our own agreements and conduct in this matter with regard to products from sharks. We want to warn you about that from the Right. It's actually like we, based on our own trade, for example. trade in cell products, having an interest in following the agreements we have signed out, following international jurisdiction. So it is in Stortinget to require its own legislation – narrow, pointed legislation – for some products without taking into account the international trade agreements and the conventions Norway has signed and committed itself to comply, which complicates the picture quite considerably. The majority therefore oppose the two proposals by the Christian People's Party and propose that the draft document be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e3993	Norway, as one of the world’s leading maritime states, has great ambitions when it comes to sustainable capture, exploitation and trade in seafood. So we've ratified a number of conventions. In 1976 we ratified the CITES Convention. The purpose of this Convention is to control international trade in endangered species of animals and plants in order to avoid over-taxation. The Workers' Party believes that the placing on the market of sharks is a threat to several shark populations. Therefore, stricter regulation of imports of shark products is necessary in order to stop imports of illegal shark products. I address the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to ensure stricter regulation of imports of products from sharks in order to stop imports of illegal shark products into Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4005	The representative of Blattmann has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4008	Catch of shark products is one of the most grotesque ways of taxing an animal. More precisely, you only tax parts of an animal. Although the practice of throwing the rest of the animal alive at sea is largely prohibited, the capture of sharks for fins has wiped out a number of sharks and has caused almost 100 sharks to be endangered. The most common practice for catching shark products is ‘hairfinning’. Most sharks are caught using longlines. This is done by laying a line of everything from one kilometer to 100 kilometers, equipped with up to 16,000 hooks, out into the sea and taken up the following morning. The catch is very varied and sometimes very brutal. Everything from dolphins, seals, seabirds, small fish and sharks gets caught at hooks. The placing on the market of sharks will pose a threat to shark populations even if the catch does not involve sharking. About 100 million sharks are caught every year. It is significantly more than what is considered to be the sustainable taxation of sharks. The numbers are uncertain, but scientists claim that the total number can be as high as 273 million sharks killed per year. It's about 20 pst. of the total shark population. By eradicating the top part of the food chain, enormous challenges are being created downwards. You create a bias in the ecosystem. The values are huge. Since 2000, the total import value of sharks has been between 2.4 billion and 3.5 billion. kr. Although Norway is not, of course, a problem with the sharks themselves, there is no excuse for leaning back and believing that we have completely clean hands. The signal effect of Norway taking this challenge seriously is likely to be more effective than we might think. Although a ban on sharking is in place, the high value of sharks will still make it attractive to try to circumvent the rules and practice sharking. Therefore, there is a need for stricter regulation of imports of products from sharks in order to stop imports of illegal shark products into the Norwegian market. The Christian People's Party, together with the Greens, therefore believes that it is necessary to introduce the requirement that shark products imported must have full species information, which will ensure that threatened shark species do not reach the Norwegian market. The products imported must also have complete and verifiable information on the method, location, date and time of capture. The position of the rapporteur points to the CITES list of endangered sharks. It is worth noting that only eight of nearly 100 endangered sharks are included in the CITES list. The remaining shark species are largely lacking protection against over-taxation, and the Christian People's Party and the Greens therefore believe that CITES does not provide a good enough level of protection. It also happens that sharks, both threatened and unfeared, are fished in areas that are actually protected areas where sharks are not to be taken. This may include, inter alia: occur in cases where the shark is by-catch in relation to other fishing activities, such as: fishing for tuna by means of non-authorised fishing methods. There are also some areas protected during given periods of the year. That is why we believe that there is a need for both the timing and the location and the method of fishing to be clearly identified in relation to imports. By making demands in line with this proposal, Norway will be a driver for reducing illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. I bring up the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have a proposal in the vote, promoted by the Workers' Party now, and the Christian People's Party will vote for it as a secondary vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4034	The representative Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4037	It's an important topic we're now discussing. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Green Party for putting forward the proposal, and I shall not exclude that there can be more thanks in the direction of the Green Party than the evening. I feel that the representative Hemdal well explained the situation in the case. For the centre party, this boils down to whether we are satisfied with today's situation, or sees a need for stricter regulation of imports and the need to stop illegal imports of shark products. It is a question to which the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre answer no – we are not satisfied with today's situation. I am surprised that the Left in the setting does not want to be included in this. One might wonder if there's a disturbance of sharking, or whether there's a peace of mind in the Nydalen that's carrying it. I hope that the Left will reconsider its position. In the Storting today there are many issues discussed. This is in a global perspective one of the most important. The central party feels for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, but we also see the objections that the Council of State makes. That is why, together with the Labour Party, we have put forward a proposal asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget with measures. There shall be no action at all. There shall be measures to ensure more stringent regulation of imports of products from sharks in order to stop imports of illegal shark products into Norway. The order contained in the proposal is ready, and I hope it is possible to have a majority for it in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4048	Thank you to the rapporteur for reviewing the matter. Norway is, and should be, foremost in the management of marine resources and in research on marine resources. That is why we have strict enforcement of which resources can be caught, and how much, and therefore, of course, I share the opinion of the proposers that Norway, as one of the world's leading maritime states, has great ambitions about sustainable capture, exploitation and trade in seafood. Yes, we must have high ambitions. With regard to the first proposal by the proposers, that ‘the Government asks the Government to ensure that imported shark products have full and verifiable species information’, the Left considers that the Customs Administration, using the current international rules, is properly enforced by the CITES Convention as it is today. There should be no doubt for anyone today that, with the current rules and international cooperation obligations in hand, the Left considers that illegal imports of shark products into Norway must and must be sanctioned. With regard to this proposal, I must agree with the Minister for Fisheries that there must be proportionality between the scope of the action and the objective the action seeks to achieve. With regard to the other proposals made by the proposers: I also share the Fisheries Minister’s view – and assessment – that this will be very difficult to put into practice, for example. tracking catch information directly to each fisherman in Asia or the Pacific. In the Left, we are concerned with policy solutions that do not increase bureaucracy. Among other reasons, the Left does not want to support the proposal. This is about the fact that illegally obtained products of sharks are not imported into Norway, and I have dealt with this precisely in the committee's consideration of the matter. The left has confidence that the Minister with existing legislation will prevent the illegal importation of sharks into Norway. At the same time, the Left has found that the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre, that the government should come back to the Stortinge with proposals for measures to ensure stricter regulation, will strengthen the case. The Left therefore supports proposal 1 from the Workers' Party and the Centre, which is: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to ensure stricter regulation of imports of products from sharks in order to stop imports of illegal shark products into Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4068	That was a good clarification we got in the last post. I was going to start my post with, what's going on in the left? But I can't do that now. SV supports the proposers on this issue. This is perhaps the easiest thing all day. Sharks are one of the most threatened creatures in the ocean, and according to the Red List organizations, as much as a quarter of the 450-500 sharks are threatened directly by extinction. For example, the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species, CITES, Only eight of the endangered species on the list are listed, and Norway has no restrictions on imports of shark products into Norway. I must remind those who are still in doubt in this matter of two important fisheries policy traditions in Norway. Firstly, since each Norwegian fisheries resource management has become world-leading. It has just been because we have had a hard fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. It's a proud tradition, a tradition that also obliges us in all other matters. The other tradition is that we in Norway have used to think for ourselves. That means that when international organisations do not work, or when they have taken positions that are contrary to our knowledge, our researchers, our fishermen and our fisheries policy, we have had enough to assert our own position. To introduce own national legislation where we see that international administration is not adequate, we have done so before, and it is easy to do without being too complicated. So let's simply say no to these products and vote in favour of at least one of the proposals put forward. It could mean a difference. Haiane is some of the oldest species in the world. The oldest fossils stretch 450 million years ago. They've survived meteors, ice ages and volcanic eruptions. The question is whether they survive the human race. Right here, we can make a positive contribution. SV will therefore primarily support the Christian People's Party and the Green Party's proposals and, secondarily, the Labour Party and the Centre's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4081	The world population of animal species is on average reduced to about half of what they were just 40 years ago. Species are eradicated at between a hundred and a thousand times the rate now that has been natural in the last hundred million years. That means we're on a very steep outcurrency in eradicating a lot of species. It is above all the large animals that are at risk – large mammals, large birds, large crustaceans, large shellfish and large fishes. These species together make up the ecosystems that we depend on, and the major species have key roles in their ecosystems. Besides, the big animals are a pretty important part of our image by nature. They are important because we think it is beautiful, exciting and valuable in nature. A nature without large animals is in many ways a poor nature. You can imagine a sea without sharks, it's a poor and unexpecting sea. Of course, all the representatives here agree that we need to stop this species eradication, and most people will probably agree that we also need to take new steps to do so in practice. This case is a test of the will to do this in practice. Because it is the overall impact of many small individual decisions that eliminate species, directly or indirectly, and it is also the overall impact of many small individual decisions that may allow them to be saved. Of course, the matter we are dealing with here may seem curious to many. Taking decisions on the labelling of shark products is, of course, a rather narrow exercise, but the situation is that in this case Norway can actively choose to go beyond international legislation and conventional methods, thus setting a new standard that attracts global development. If you can do that, it's worth taking a little slave with you to get it done. The CITES Convention, to which many have referred, shall monitor international trade in endangered species of animals and plants. It shall verify exactly what the shark products are about, which is a major threat to these extremely old and extremely specialised species, which are definitely going to be eradicated if trade does not come under control. So, as the committee points out, as many people have pointed out, CITES only has eight of the nearly hundreds of endangered shark species on its list. This is due to formal and political opposition from countries, including Norway, which prioritises various principal and more or less real economic interests rather than halting the eradication of sharks. That is why the Greens are very pleased – as it now looks, and if we have not misunderstood anything – that we can now at least have a majority for one of the proposals, to ask the government to move on to this. We are pleased that, at least, it is recognised that there is a problem when, as some committee members say with reference to the Minister for Fisheries, listing eight hundred species constitutes a so-called good level of protection. It's not this kind of inconclusive position that's going to bring the work to rescue endangered species in the future. So we're facing an escalating eradication problem, where we have to do something new to solve it. The shark market exists because it's lucrative, and because it's badly controlled, and making it better controlled and less lucrative is exactly what will work. Therefore, it is very necessary that Norway is also willing to try something new. The Greens will therefore, of course, vote in favour of our own proposals and also of the proposal promoted by the Central Party and the Labour Party, which I understand will be supported by the Left and which I hope will be supported by more parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4099	In my reply letter of 16 December 2014, I have explained Norwegian administrative policy and the reasons I believe are important in terms of overfishing and illegal fishing of living resources in the sea. Imports into Norway of sharks are very modest and represented a value of only about about in 2013. NOK 13 000. These imports originate mainly from Denmark, Spain and New Zealand, all of which have ratified the CITES Convention and are considered to have good administrative regimes. According to the FAO, the catch of sharks has fallen in the last decade and is currently at about 760,000 tonnes. The main weight of shark fishing is in tropical waters, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Total catches of fish have been around 90 million tonnes per year in recent years. The minority of the Committee gives the impression that Norway does not appear to be concerned with shark management or does not take seriously the loss of biodiversity. The UN General Assembly’s Fisheries Resolution shows that Norway and many other countries are also concerned with the management and taxation of sharks and with specific issues related to shark fishing. The resolution points to a number of measures that should be taken by the countries catching sharks and when such products are placed on the market — a turnover that takes place primarily in some Asian countries. The International Shark Management Action Plan was adopted in 1999 and the FAO reports on both progress and challenges in the area of sound regulation of sharks. It is known that the regional fisheries organisations or the coastal and flag States concerned are responsible for managing resources in a sustainable manner. I would also like to stress that, in terms of the management of shark populations in our waters, we take sound management measures and regulate fishing based on the actual biological status of the individual shark populations. In my written reply I have explained why I believe the vote proposal 2 is not feasible because in many cases the requested information will not be available. There will also be very high resource requirements for Customs, which will be the department responsible for verifying and verifying such documentation. I do not see that the minority of the Economic and Social Committee in its justification for the proposal has assessed how reprobability can be achieved when the necessary information will not be obtainable. I also note that this type of requirement will be much more stringent than the requirements generally imposed on imports of fish and fishery products, where the challenges of over-taxation and over-fishing are a key challenge for sustainable management of marine resources. In this respect, Norway is also bound by our international commitments, including in the WTO, that trade measures should not be more radical than necessary. I would like to stress that the means of combating over-taxation and illegal fishing must be based on the same principles, while at the same time there must be consistency between the nature of the problem and the means of achieving this objective. Norway has been the leader in the fight against over-taxation and illegal fishing. In this work, we have put the crucial emphasis on international solutions and instruments for how to find good solutions. The same requirement must also apply with regard to sharks. Also allow me to use this opportunity to tell Stortinget that today we have established North Atlantic Fisheries Intelligence Networks which are just a cooperation between seven countries and the OECD to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing globally. Here is Norway in the driver’s seat, where fishing authorities, tax authorities and customs authorities are directly involved in combating, detecting and ensuring that illegal fishing is sanctioned. But I am concerned that the measures and resources we are going to put in must be proportionate to the results that can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4125	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4139	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4146	In the Committee we have discussed a legislative proposal on the imposition of lifejackets for children in recreational boats. This is based on a Document 8 proposal, launched here in Stortinget. The use of life jackets saves lives. Too many circles as a result of drowning. All persons who engage in activities where there is a risk of drowning should use lifejackets. Stifling work and competence prevent drowning accidents. Here, the Maritime Directorate, the Rescue Company and many different teams and organisations make a formidable effort. Available statistics show that we have almost doubled the number of recreational boats since 1980. At the same time, the number of persons killed in recreational boat hatches is more than halved – this without the need for life jackets. Studies now show that 80 pst. Uses life jackets. There is evidence that knowledge and staggering work are working. We're on the right track. In this way, it should be unnecessary to impose a general western ban and make it criminal not to use the west a fine summer day, when one will lie on the deck and the sun. However, the majority in the Committee would like a general Western mandate. The Committee is thus divided into the view of the need for a general western ban applicable to all, or of the proposal for a western ban for children, submitted by the government following a decision taken here in the Stortinget in June 2014, is sufficient. The argument to vote in favour of the SV's proposal to impose a Western ban on children is the same today as when the proposal received a majority here in the Stortinget in June last year. Experience shows that not all users are west. Then it's important that we secure the youngest, so that they don't become a victim of the growing knowledge of maritime safety that they lack. Both the proposition, as it is, and the plurality of the committee's amendment on a general Western injunction will have holes and missing. The proposal of the majority in the Committee implies that in recreational boats with a length of more than eight metres, there should be no western port. One may wonder why one must use the west a quiet summer day, with the sun and the white sea, in a small yacht, while a boat over eight meters, at a speed of 40 knots at high seas, does not need the provision of life jackets. Boating is often a form of recreation, and it should be legal to lie on deck on a summer day and sun without a west – without this being criminal and illegal. In addition, the law only applies when the boat is on board, and not when one is in the boat and fishing in the high seas. It's a big paradox when you know there's men between 30 and 50 years of age without a vest that usually drowns. Nor when moving between boats and enter moored or anchored vessels shall the law apply. Nor shall he frame those who are in boats with a length of more than eight metres, and who may be running a boat at great speed at night, with low visibility. This testifies to the fact that the most important thing to reduce the number of accidents and drowning cases is the staggering work. Right, I think that a code has to be behavioral and not criminal, as the plural wants. There is a joint committee and a number of actors who think that the most important thing to bring down the accident statistics and better safety at sea is the staggering work. So it's fun that the whole committee supports under the government's attitude-creating work. So I see that the proposal from the majority in the committee will have multiples here today, since the Greens now want a west front for everyone, not just for children, as they meant the last time we discussed life jackets here in the hall and asked the government to come up with a proposal for a change of law that applied to children. I expect the Green Party to do its own thing in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4172	Will the representative address the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4180	The representative of Trellevik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4185	I have a simple and brief question for the representative Trellevik: Does the representative think that the proposal that is on the table, which was the order of the majority last year, meets where there is a need to take action to avoid the accidents we unfortunately see? In 2013, 34 people died in pleasure boat accidents – 27 of them had no life jackets. And as the representative himself said, there are men between 40 and 75 years of age who are the group who experience most drowning accidents. I repeat the question: does the representative think that this is what will happen, and are you satisfied with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4192	Thank you for the question. In Document 8, a government asked for various measures to improve maritime safety. Both the government and the Right believe that the staggering work is it all, the most important. The requirement for life jackets for children came up as a matter here in Stortinget when we actually dealt with the original Document 8. It was a good way to move forward, I think, without having to adopt a general law, because having a life jacket on children is a holding action that we think can help to create better postures among both grown-ups and children, as we then take care of the child in another way, by looking after the children, and one is not subject to their parents' poor competence in maritime safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4199	The expert committee set up in 2012 said that there were many measures that could be taken, including: on speed, per thousand and life jacket instructions, but they were also very clear that the single best-performing measure is a general requirement for lifejackets. In this way, this is not very general – it is designed for children. So once again, how do you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4204	As I said, the best work is to be done, and the proposal they have put forward in the committee is not very precise either. It has the potential to hit a third of those drowning. There's over 100 drowning every year, and the proposal they're making now has the potential to reach something over 30. For this reason, we still believe that it is unusually important to focus on the stanchive work. Even if we decide tonight that we should have a life jacket directive for everyone, we will still have a frame that will require us to have a strong focus on preventive work. And the Right and Government are going to continue working on that part of maritime safety, as well as, of course, meeting the order made here in the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4209	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for the job. The representative Trellevik said in his post and now in the reply box that this should help to create positive attitudes towards west use among children. Then I want to challenge the representative Trellevik: what kind of attitudes are you creating when you adopt a law that says that only kids have to use a vest? One can have a situation where there's a nice day at sea, and the parents think it's okay to throw the vest, but tell the kids that west they have to wear--for they want to be law-abiding, as parents most. Does the representative Trellevik not realize that the position you can adopt with a proposal only for children is that the West is something that is primarily important for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4219	Well, if an interpreter and an interpreter reads things in the worst sense, one can probably get the same opinion that the representative has – if one does not understand what the consequences of such a proposal will be. The whole point is to ensure that children and their rights and obligations to stay in a boat are preserved, even if their parents’ or adults’ maritime safety skills are not good enough. And with a west front for children, children would have their interests cared for very well, and I think that it also helps to create good postures, both in adults and in children, with a general west front for children under 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4227	This is a matter that very many are concerned about in our country, because there are amazingly many who are happy to be at sea, and who have a boat. In these times there are also many who have started to pee on the boat and prepare the boat life for the summer. For the Workers' Party, it is important to clarify that we want to rebuild well-being and joy on the sea – absolutely – but combined with maritime safety, because it is linked. Today the law says that you must have a life jacket available on board the boat and that there should be one for each. It has been called upon to carry it on through awareness campaigns on good seawater, but there is no requirement at present. If we take a look at the statistics, we see that unfortunately there are many accidents and drownings happening on the sea. Over the past five years, 443 people have drowned in Norway, 142 of them from recreational boat and canoe. Each one of these is deeply missing from family and friends, and much indicates that a good deal could have been mountained if they had had the life jacket on. When the Workers' Party decided to listen to the clearest advice, about what's going on on the fleece vest, it was precisely because it's important to have that vest on – it's part of saving lives. Let's look a little bit more at the numbers around these drowning accidents. The statistics show that 90 pst. of the persons killed, men between 40 and 75 years of age. Fortunately, no children have been killed in recreational boat accidents in the last two years. In 2013 there were 34 who died in pleasure boat accidents and canoes, and 27 of them didn't have west. It shows that there is a high proportion of those drowning, who have left the vest in the boat. What do these figures tell us about our responsibilities as politicians, with regard to the individual's responsibilities? It is clear that each one has a responsibility to wear the vest, but what is our responsibility? When I looked at these figures last year, it became quite clear to me that we have to follow up the professional advice we received in 2012 from a wide range of professional selections, led by the Maritime Director. In their report it was clarified that the individual measure which would have the greatest effect on the mortality rates for pleasure boat accidents was an obligation to use floats in a boat on board. Of course, there were several things that were taken up, such as reducing the pro-mille limit, reducing speed, self-training for the fastest boats, awareness-raising campaigns, etc. But we chose to listen to the clearest advice, the use of flotation. We also saw quickly that we had support in the population, for the Rescue Company, together with the Ipsos MMI, conducted a survey in the summer of 2013 in which they asked 4,000 Northmen if they thought it was right or wrong with a west command on the open boat on board. All 71 pst. of the men thought it was right, and 94 pst. by the women, this was what they wanted. Women are also aware that it is important for their well-being at sea, and that they feel safer when everyone on board uses the vest. The Committee now has a majority in favour of this proposal, as has already been said, where the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are in favour of introducing a general western mandate in an open-air recreational boat under eight metres on board. It's not something we've suddenly come upon by ourselves one night; it's actually the expert committee that has also advised that this is a facility that can be smart. But in the hall we need the SV or the Green Party with us to get this introduced and to get a majority. That is why I am very pleased that the Greens are today signaling their support for this proposal. And to be completely honest, I think it will be welcomed in the Right and Advance Party as well. I don't think they're going to be awake tonight because of this, I actually think that everyone is so busy getting maritime safety to the best of their ability that I think this can be well followed up by the department. So our proposal is this with the directive, but also that those who are to be responsible for having this vest are the individuals. And for those who are under 15 years of age, we believe that it is the responsibility of the boatman to get them to wear the vest.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4253	I'm sure I'll be able to sleep well tonight, as the last speaker said. I will probably sleep even better in the future if the representative can answer the question I have right now. In the introduction, the representative said to have a life jacket on, it saves life – it was very important. But then there are over 100 drownings per year, and the proposal that has now been made, and which is adopted here today, has the potential to cover approx. one third of drowning events. Then my question is: What other prohibitions and prohibitions does the Labour Party consider to be introduced separately so that the remaining two thirds will also be covered by a ban or ban that saves lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4258	What this matter concerns are pleasure boats, and the device proposed by the expert committee is simply that the directive should apply to boats less than eight metres, outdoors and on board. That device is something we have chosen to deal with, because we believe that it is good advice, and not least that there is a large number drowning because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4263	Of course, in the Advance Party we are concerned with safety at sea, but we also have a very great faith in the freedom to take responsibility for our own lives. Of course, we'll always encourage everyone, big and small, to use a float. But we think this limit of eight meters is a little bit artificial. You can imagine the quiet sneaker and the very fast boat at high speed, and we're wondering what it's all about, why these eight meters. Even though the experts have said that, we find that limit a little bit artificial. For speed kills, both to land and to water, and very often it is the fast boats involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4268	Once again, I would just like to say that the device contained in this proposal comes from the Maritime Directorate and the expert group. I do not feel competent to make changes to it – for example. for an eleven-and-a-half-metre-long boat. In terms of that kind of device, I really want to listen to professionals. I think the proposal that lies here is very good, and it hits well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4273	One thing is the competence of the Maritime Directorate when it comes to finding reliable solutions that can reach exactly the specific target group. Something else is to adopt promises. It's a competence that belongs in this room, and there's another kind of question. In legal sociology, they have an epitome called the light-breaker theory, and it's a theory that promises automatically have an effect in society once they're agreed. But it's not like that in practice. It is often the case that the laws do not work as intended, and often they have unintended consequences. So if the representative can tell me: the statistically small group, men over 50, who dominate accident statistics, where the main causes are alcohol, running at night and speed, who can say with certainty that these will automatically use lifejackets after the Storting has passed a law on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4278	There may be 80 km/h on a sign by the road as well, and who can guarantee that no one is running over it, I think is a question that is difficult to answer. But we have a responsibility, because we are actually going to make laws, make and change laws, based on the challenges we have. I believe that the device we are now bringing is correct and important. Then I also believe that we need to look at how we can improve maritime safety in other areas. I believe that the Stortinget was very clear in the spring when we dealt with this matter, and there is also a response from the Council of State and the Ministry that several things should be taken into account, both in terms of speed, and in terms of training. There I think that this whole thing will be important to consider further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4287	It is an interesting matter that we are dealing with now, as you are about to enter a boat season for pleasure boats. I will first be allowed to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good report, which points to many facts. Now it looks like the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre have supported today. It's a little interesting that you come up with that proposal, which takes people's safety into account when it comes to outdoor life. In Norway, we have a good tradition of having a rich outdoor life, and we also have a bit of a demanding outdoor life, which presents many challenges. What you've seen in the last few years is, for example, what you've seen in the last few years. that there are very many people who have died in avalanches. It's simply because the behavior has changed – you go more to the tops. What's interesting to record in this way is that to prevent it, it's just mind-building work and the use of media. The last thing was a report yesterday when the Crown Prince was on Ringvassøy outside Tromsø, and they focused on preventing hazards in the mountains. I think that was also a good input to this issue, because it's through prevention you can get the most and the most effective effect. The setting points to many interesting points, and a joint committee writes, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘An accident often occurs as a result of a combination of high speed, high per mille, driving in the dark and non-use of floating equipment.’ If you have high speeds, high proms, driving in dark and no floating equipment, I don't actually think that a law order is going to make sure these have vests on them. If you've already challenged the fate of the points I've mentioned, with both darkness, speed and promille, I don't think a decision on floating equipment is the one that's furthest ahead of the pancreas. What I think is going to be important is to take completely different measures in terms of prevention. It's a fact that they're all, most people use floating equipment, and then there's someone who doesn't. If there are more people who are going to use floating equipment because you have got a law in that way, I am very uncertain. The proposal promoted by the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also reveal many grey zones, to use that expression. And it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that two thirds of the drowning accidents will not really be affected by this directive. In other words, you don't solve the whole problem. The whole problem can be solved by doing a lot more in the form of mind-creating work, if you want. What I fear with such a decree is that the whole attitude to this with the use of float vests is a little bit more hollowed out: when is a boat on the move? Is the boat over or below eight meters? So you can sit in a boat that's eight meters, at a raging speed without a float, but if you're in a boat under eight meters, there's a completely different regime. So I think this is also a law that is difficult for the boat people to understand the logic of. And that might be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4310	It's interesting to hear how you think about it here. The representative, Korsberg, says that it is important to take action in terms of speed and per thousand and, to this extent, life jacket instructions – that there are different areas to address – but the solution is therefore very clear: mind-building work. That's what you've been doing for a lot of years. Then I wonder how the government has intended to prevent accidents this year through awareness-raising work. What campaigns does the government intend to launch? What is the use of money related to this? What's the big bet that the rest of us might not have got with us? Because this is nothing new. There has been mind-building work all along, but still it dies people, and the single action that the experts say works is to get on the west.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4317	I have to bring a case report, and it's that I'm not in government, I'm a staggering representative. And as it turned out from the question, it was about what the government was going to do in that area. I would recommend that the representative ask the Council of State, which I think can better answer for what the government will do in that way. But that mind-creating work is important, I think everyone is aware of. As a parent, you go ahead — at least you should — with a good example of safety. It concerns safety at sea, and safety in general – being a role figure and going ahead with a good example. I have been at sea for quite many years, in a recreational boat, and I have registered that there are more and more people using a life jacket. So there are many who contribute good campaigns in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4326	It's very good that more people use life jackets, and it's very good if we can bring down the accident statistics. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees. But I am very concerned to hear what individual measures the representative of the Progress Party believes are most important. Is it just awareness campaigns you need, or do you have suggestions for other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4331	I think this with mind-creating work is important. Maybe the easiest thing to point at in this way is, among other things. The life-saver is concerned with awareness-raising, both in the use of flotation equipment and in general knowledge of being at sea and all the hazards it involves. This is also done in the fishing industry, including training for fishermen and safety training. There is no requirement for them to have flotation, or that kind of thing, but there is no question of general measures to think about safety 24 hours a day. When I got to work this morning, the security section at Stortinget had a distribution of materials, where we were asked to think through the security situation. There is also an example of a high level of prevention in general interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4338	The representative of Korsberg argues in his post in a somewhat subtle way against a warrant. However, the representative of Korsberg is in the position to wish to impose a ban, but only for children. So you can ask yourself whether the representative of Korsberg believes that the proposal that has been put forward is the best, or whether it would have been more desirable to continue today's system, where there is no obligation to wear a vest, and that it is up to the parents to take responsibility for this. But I assume that as long as the representative Korsberg is not in government, and one has a free will when writing his position, one believes that a child's injunction is easier. But then why would you want to have a warrant for a group that is drowning to a small extent, and that is the best way to use the vest?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4343	Children may not be able to take care of their own safety in as good a way as adults can. I think that's the easiest reason in that way. So I'm saying this with mind-creating work. If you teach children good practice to think about safety, they're the next generation, who'll teach their children the same thing. From I started to travel to the sea, to today, there are several more who use life jackets. It's simply because you've had a mind-building job, and because you've got a conscious way of thinking about it. I believe that all parents – and adults – should be good role figures for children, both their own and those of others, by thinking about security. And that's what most parents do. If you have a life jacket on kids, it is also quite natural that you have a life jacket on yourself – and on a bike.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4355	First, I want to thank the case rapporteur for the job he has done for a clean and good dialogue. The Christian People's Party wants the sea to be for all of us, that it should be safe, that being at sea should be filled with good experiences and joy and enjoyment. I am absolutely sure that the whole committee, and indeed the whole Stortinget, will agree on that. For me, this matter we are now discussing is about saving lives. The accident statistics are clear: the typical marine fatality occurs with men over 40 who are alone in the boat. The Ministry considers that a general directive on the use of floating equipment is not sufficiently precise to reduce the number of drownings in accident statistics. When one knows that the typical fatal accident occurs with men over 40 years of age who are alone in the boat, I believe that the government is a little sure when they propose instructions for children. In fact, 40 - year - old men may be young in mind, but they hardly feel the burden of an order for children under 16. I therefore believe that a general ban, which the Christian People's Party is in favour of today, is more precise in order to prevent fatal accidents than what the ministry has proposed. There is already an enormous will in the population to impose a general directive on lifejackets. As has been said earlier in the debate, the Rescue Company's investigation, in which 4,000 Norwegians have been asked if they think it is right or wrong that there is a requirement to have on a life jacket on an open boat on board, shows that 71 pst. by men, that is true, and that as many as 94 pst. Of us women think that's right. The Ministry also claims that a general directive on lifejackets will require an enormous increase in control at sea. So the government claims that respect for the law disappears if you do not at the same time strengthen control. That could be right. But it is difficult for me to understand that a directive for everyone can be more difficult to control than a directive only for children under 16. Even I think it is much easier to see if a person is wearing a life jacket or not, than if the person is over or under 16 years of age. So the need for control is increased with the government's proposals, which means that once again I think the arguments are best for a general order. In addition, I think that we should listen to the trade unions and the largest organisations and associations in this area: the rescue company, the Maritime Directorate, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the National Attorney, the Emergency Catastrophes and Royal Norwegian Boat Federation. They all agree that there should be a general directive on lifejackets. It could be good to have in the back of your head. In addition, the Christian People's Party has also made a proposal in this case to lower the per-mile limit at sea. This is also in line with the wish expressed by a clear majority of the working group in its 2012 report on the safety of the use of recreational craft. The report of the working group showed that 86 of the deaths in the last ten years have been alcohol-induced. It's going to be 26 pst. of the dead. I am convinced that a tightening of the per mille limit at sea for pleasure boats will have the same effect as it had for a car, where the sharpening made it clear that driving and alcohol do not belong together. Then we also have the studies from the Public Health Institute, which show that you become more critical and risky already at a prom between 0.5 and 1.0. I believe that we should limit, as far as possible, the uncriticised and risky behaviour of boating, and I believe that this is also a strong argument for tightening the pro-mille limit. I am thus addressing the proposals of the Christian People's Party. I also warn, on the part of the Christian People's Party, that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4381	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4387	I'm not going to talk for or against life jackets, but I'm going to talk a little bit more about the term "fast". I wonder very much whether the Christian People's Party sees that the concept of 'fast' is a little unexplained, and how the Christian People's Party sees it to be enforceable. Wouldn't have been better, for example. to link it to today's rules that there is a maximum of 5 knots if it's 100 meters from land, at least it would have been a little easier to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4392	Thanks for the line. When it comes to speed, the easiest thing to do is to see if a boat is moving or not, whether it is moving or not. That is also the way we have dealt with the recommendations made by the group of experts. I am sitting in the days I am not in the storeroom and look beyond the exit of Glomma. There's a speed limit. I can see which boats comply with the speed limitation, and which boats do not. It's easy to see the speed, and it's easy to see when you don't have the speed, but it's just possible to go down at Glomma's speed and shut down the engine, so it's another way. But speed is velocity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4399	I would say that the answer to the representative of the Christian People's Party proves the very issue. It is easy to see whether a boat is on the move or not, says the representative of the Christian People's Party. If you're floating with Glomma, you're still on the move, but if you're lying and running with the current, the Christian People's Party obviously still believes that there should be a requirement for a life jacket, even if you're lying and sung, if I understood the Christian People's Party correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4404	When I see these boats outside my living room window at a speed of 5 knots, which the representative himself mentioned, I think it's a good idea to wear a life jacket there, whether you're under 16 or over 16 years old, because we know that it's an important measure to save lives. For the Christian People's Party, this matter is about saving lives, and as the statistics show, one third of those who have died could have been saved if they had carried their life vests.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4409	There is no doubt that everyone wants to reduce the number of drowning accidents at sea and make sure that those figures are as low as possible. That's not where the debate goes, and I don't think any parties should argue that they want to reduce the number of drowning accidents more than others. What's going on is the tools you're going to use. The majority of the legislative proposal referred to in the vote, with the support of the Greens, has been mentioned in the proposal, which should be the various elements. But can the representative Line Henriette Heimdal give me an understanding of how this law is to be handled by those who are to control these boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4416	I thank you for the question. I agree that none of us in this room are going to claim that someone is better than others, because I think everyone wants to be with and save lives. And then the Christian People's Party, unlike the representative of Korsberg, believes that a general law is the way to go. There will be nothing worse to enforce a general law than a legal order for children and young people under the age of 16, which the government has promoted, and which I expect the representative of Korsberg of the Progress Party will vote for in this room later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4424	Debates on what is to be ordered or prohibited, not imposed or not banned, always give rise to involvement in the Centre Party. In this case, our conclusion has been quite straightforward. This is a non-interventional injunction, which will have great significance. It has also been crucial for us that the rescue company has done a great job and is very concerned that this requirement is needed. Life jackets save lives. An order will lead to more people using life jackets, and when one is now going to go in order for this to come into force as of 1 May, the decision we are making today will probably save lives all this summer. Many people are talking about attitudes – we need to spread attitudes. But it's already a little unclear which attitudes you want to spread. Would you like to spread the view that it is important for children to use vests, or would you like to spread the opinion that adults should use vests when there is no risk of drowning – then I would remind you that most drowning accidents are not actually planned – or would you like to spread the view that a person should use vests at all times? It's a little bit unclear to me. At the same time, I feel that there is a subtle creativity in finding problems with such an order. First of all, I have faith that the police are able to make these discretionary assessments, and that one does not necessarily go beyond borderline cases. There's going to be enough clear breaks to shut down. And it's easier to control whether the vest is on, than if people have west in the boat. A point has been made of the term ‘on the move’. It is important to see that the term ‘on the move’ is also contained in the legal text that the Right, the Advance Party and SV have announced that they will vote in favour. It cannot be that it is more difficult to assess whether a boat is on the move or not than whether it is young people under the age of 16 on board or not. That assessment will be relatively similar in both cases. In addition, the Ministry has explained this in Chapter 12 of the Proposition — on the concept of ‘on-board’ — and the Committee has been confirmed by letter that the assessments carried out there will apply regardless of whether it is under 16 years of age or whether there is a general injunction to be imposed. There is a moment in this matter that has not been brought about in the debate, and that I want to promise, and it is that in the situations of an accident – a little independent of the outcome of that accident, whether it ends in tragedy, or whether it ends in happiness – there is no doubt that the fact that people wear their vests will make the risk to which the rescue company and others in the rescue department are subjected will be less than if people don't use their vests. I feel that in Norwegian society, a company like the Rescue Company is very strong. It is a general view that they have legitimacy in terms of seawear and maritime safety. That is why it is strange to hear the debate that is taking place here. With regard to the proposal from the Christian People's Party on pro-mille, we will not vote for it today, nor will we support the proposal from the SV. I think it is important to start with the actions that we have been informed about will have an effect. Additional investigations may probably have something to do with it, but now this is actually about us making a decision that works, and that it is going to apply from this year's boating season. Finally, I would like to refer to the representative Fylkesnes from SV. I feel that SV has settled in a somewhat strange company in this case. It is said to NTB today that prohibiting everything you are against, and forbid everything you are for, is not something SV is in favour of. I am pleased to see the party SV implement that line consistently in all cases. I think that SV in this case has taken an irresponsible position, and I hope that this is reconsidered, because it is this measure that has the best effect in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4444	This is a debate that really distinguishes between creating a new law and imposing something, or whether to bet on mind-creating work. We were at a joint hearing, and it is quite simply that the reason why there is now only about 30 drowning from the boat is that for many years good attitude-making work has been carried out. That was said in the Rescue Company, and it was said in the Norwegian Sail Association, which is believed to have some seagoing time. So it's the attitude-building work you've done over the years, which means that the number of drowning accidents has fallen, from a significant number to the lower number that is now. So you're betting that people can think for themselves. When I go in and look at the Center Party's value base, I see that the Center Party says: «We want a society of free and independent people who, with faith in their own abilities, take responsibility for their own lives.» What is it that makes the Center Party have no faith in man when that man is aboard a boat of less than eight meters on the go?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4458	Attitude-making is important, and it's important to give people freedom. It applies as a general principle when a journey in nature — and otherwise in life as well. But we have many examples of situations where we want to use prohibitions. It will be a concrete assessment each time. It is important to remember that in fact, it is only about how a directive is to be set up – whether it applies only to young people, whether it applies only to the group that actually uses vests, or whether it applies also to those who are not so good at using vests. There is already a requirement, namely the requirement to carry one west on board the boat. What we're doing now is we're making a mandatory that doesn't always work, a mandatory that will have much greater effect, that the vest should be on. We consider that to be a small but effective intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4468	It is interesting to see that the proposal of the Red-Greens, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and the Left and Christian People's Party will actually favor the rich. I dare say that the term ‘3 foot-sick’, which will become new after the adoption of this bill, will apply only to boats of less than eight metres, whereas it does not apply to those boats of more than eight metres. My question to the representative of the Senterpartiet is then whether the risk of drowning is less if you fall overboard from a larger boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4473	This has nothing to do with either the struggle for poverty or the favoritism of the rich. We have made the assessment that it would be unnatural for all boats to be required to fly vests. That would have looked a little strange. We have been committed to setting up an order that, after the professional advice we have received, will be necessary and have the most impact. I don't think we'll get into a situation where you have zero drowning accidents – of course you won't. There will be different reasons for that. But it's strange that the party that talks a lot about attitudes, manages to present it as that when it's not a law order, people will pull off the vest and enjoy the so-called freedom. I have no faith in that. I think the law should work with the mind-building work. Then people will use west to a large extent when it's not required, but when it's required, one will use west even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4482	It is true that SV is in a little ‘dodgy’ company here, just as the Center Party was in a pretty ‘dodgy’ company when it was begging ban. So there's a lot of strange things going on in politics, including the Central Party. We also know that there are shared views in that party in this matter. The representative presents it as if it is an automatic means that when a law is passed, it is implemented. It's not like that, and I think it's special that the central party representative doesn't see. It is not SV's proposal that we are discussing today. SV's original proposal was that in open boats – regardless of length meters – where there are children present, everyone else in the boat should also use a vest. So my question to the representative is, where does eight meters come from? This was just an illustration from the group about where it was most precarious, but as a law decision – why are not all open boats with?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4491	I would first like to comment on this with the effect of a law. I don't think we'd have that share of car belt use in Norway if it was just attitude-creating work. I don't think that so many people would use a helmet when driving a moped or motorcycle, whether it was just mind-building work. Then, of course, we have had to make demarcations, based on practical consequences, when we were to define the framework for a law order. I assume that the SV also agreed that imposing the use of life jackets in all boats, regardless of their size, would have some practical consequences and had a marginal effect, so that one place had to go the limit, in the same way that we have taken a decision that it would apply on the voyage. There may be dangerous situations even when the boat is lying still, but one has chosen to enter there as the risk of incidents is greatest. This is a proposal that was well received by, among others. The rescue company. This may indicate that this is a good proposal. In addition, the Center Party turned around in the beggar case.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4498	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4501	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur on this matter also for a good presentation of the case. That's what he deserves. This matter is about safety at sea and work to prevent life from being lost at sea. That's the thing. That's why I'm glad that there seems to be a majority in this room today for a general order to wear float vests/flotting equipment in the boat when the boat is on board – that it's not just about children. The majority of the Committee points out that the aim of a directive is to get those who do not currently use flotation equipment to do so. The left is part of this majority, and although we strongly believe that it is the responsibility of the individual to provide his or her own security, here we see a need for a warrant. Good adults, and especially men, are the worst people to use floating equipment and those who are overrepresented in drowning statistics. We've heard that today, and it's just repeating. During the committee hearing on the matter, it was made clear – for me at least – that several lives could have been saved if floating equipment had been used. I pay great attention to specific advice and requests from the Rescue Company and other organisations and bodies in this matter. Then to the department's answer. As I read it, it is in the Ministry's view that anyone on board a boat should use flotation equipment, while a requirement to wear flotation equipment should only target children and young people. I do not agree with that. Many have compared this to the fact that a requirement to wear a seat belt in the car was just to be aimed at children and young people. I think it's a relevant comparison. The fact is, most people who unfortunately lose their lives in boat accidents today are adults. Therefore, I believe that it should then be dealt with in the law regarding the driving of a leisure boat. Because in the same way that we have to wear seat belts today when we are driving on the roads, people also have to wear a float vest when driving on the sea – I use a ‘driving’ concept. In the context of the discussion that this would be a significant tightening, this is a wrong argument in my opinion. Because it is already mandatory today to carry floating equipment on board a boat. Now only the floating equipment has to be carried when the boat is on the move, first of all to save lives. Having said this, of course, it is also necessary to work proactively to reduce accidents and irresponsible seaborne traffic by recreational boat — by working with awareness-raising measures. To this end, the Committee urges the Government to intensify its awareness-raising efforts to improve maritime safety and to ensure that the coordination of resources used to monitor maritime safety is improved. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4518	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4521	The left is a liberalist party. It made me go inside and look a little bit into the game program to the left. There were a lot of ways to join the party – I was so excited about it – but it was interesting to look at the liberal principles that apply in the Left: freedom should apply everywhere, personal responsibility is inevitable, everyone has responsibility for each other, political power should come from below – and so I could still have. Then I have to just borrow Frank Bakke-Jensen's words from instead: Why does the Liberal Party of the Left end its thinking when you get on board a boat and put on life jackets?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4526	Thank you for the question and thank you for the challenge. I am glad that Korsberg has looked into our program – it is very good there, among other things. the liberal angle, which is important to us. But sometimes there are some societal goals, such as: in life and health, which this matter is about, which we must now, and it makes us want a mandate, instead of the attitude-creating work being the only device here. We want both parts, but when we come to such a serious matter as this, we think it is necessary to apply the directive. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4531	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4534	This is not a simple matter, and it should not be for anyone either. Flow vest strengthens safety at sea and saves lives. So we want more people to use it. Nevertheless, too many floats vests lie in the boat – that’s a heavy argument to impose it. A representative from the Workers' Party said from Stortinget's spokesman that if a law can save only one life, it's worth it. But is the Storting really going to implement all measures that can prevent accidents or fatal disease? What kind of society do we get? Then not only would we have our home; it would, for example, have our home. bicycle helmet. In 2011, twelve cyclists died in Norway, eight of them didn't use helmets, and two of them could have scared their lives if they had. We know that solarium increases the chance of skin and femoral patches. We know that smoking and alcohol kill. We know that extreme sports take life – only last year did four Norwegian base pairs die. If it was about using the law to save one life, it's a very large number of security measures, bans and impositions we should have introduced. With a completely consistent security policy, floating vests and bicycle helmets would have our place of residence for everyone. Smoking, spirits, solarium, base hopping would have been our banishment. If you lit yourself a cigarette in the garden, bike to the nearby store without a helmet, or sit in the sailboat without a float, it would be the police's duty to punish you, not because you hurt others, but because you broke a rule that was designed to protect you from yourself. Every Easter people in the mountains go without adequate equipment or knowledge, any failure every year, but I haven't heard of anyone who has proposed to ban it, and no one would have suggested that it wouldn't go in to prohibit it, is to bear a personal responsibility for these human failures. It's not like today that everything that's dangerous or harmful is forbidden – not even everything that's stupid is. Neither should it be. If someone sits in a little snitch and wants to sunbathe on the whole body, they should be allowed to do so by their own reason. A barge becomes particularly funny if those who are in a nest are allowed to wear a life jacket, while an avalanche barge of over eight metres is to pass by at high speed with a rush driver, a man over 40, without the law saying anything about it. That is the practical consequence of the Labour Party proposal. As an SV, I'm for a strong public sector, I'm for an efficient and strong state, and I'm for promises that are often strict, that protect everyone, regardless of background, regardless of class and gender. But it's not part of my ideological over-estimate that people shouldn't be responsible for themselves; on the contrary, I think community, regulation and sharing are good for everyone, precisely because it gives people a greater freedom to live their own lives and a greater ability to take care of themselves. I think because we should be very careful about imposing bans and prohibitions on questions about what individuals do with themselves and their own lives. But when my freedom sees the limits of others' freedom, the matter is different. Therefore, I am in favour of the smoking law, but against banning tobacco. I'm too far-west, but I didn't think it should be the police's job to punish a grown man without a float-west a hot summer day. We can't forbid everything we don't like – that very sentence has also been used to the right for decades – but the right-hand side's party is going to break for the prohibition of what they don't like. The beggar ban is the worst example. Instead of solving the poverty problem, the poor will be pursued. It is a reprehensible form of social renovation — the approach to female repression and clothing such as burka and niqab is the same. The party of progress is in favour of a ban. I mean that a principle approach to these questions is to be consistent skeptical about switching freedom against security and equally sceptical about setting limits on the individual's freedom, unless it's necessary to ensure others' freedom. The power of Stortinget shall not be used to regulate away stupidity or any personal responsibility. I include the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4554	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4559	It sounds like SV is very liberal in the review that comes up in this post. I am simply tempted to ask whether SV has become so liberal that they now want to lift the directive on safety belts as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4564	In my post, I tried at best to do something for what is our principle approach to this matter. I think it's opposite. Since one has used a float vest in boats less than eight meters, one has also said that one must wear a bicycle helmet – because it also scares life. Then one would also say that one should make quite large restrictions on the use of tobacco or alcohol, because it will also save lives. I mean, there's a limit. For SV, that limit goes when delimitation is about protecting others' lives – then we are too. But if the restriction is about protecting people from themselves and their own choices – then we are skeptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4569	Then I have a follow-up question about what's going on, which the representative is talking about. For is SV involved in the proposal now presented by the Right and the Advance Party – which is actually on order from a proposal SV came into the spring – where people under 16 years of age are to be given a mandate, where specifically mentioned boats under eight meters, outdoors, and on board? Should it be removed if SV is to be on the proposal, or is SV on the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have today? It's pretty important to get clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4574	I totally agree with that. The proposal from the government is not the SV's proposal, nor was it the agreement reached in June. The agreement in June was that we would get a bill that called for the use of a vest in boats that were open, where not only children were involved, but also the adults who were present. We wanted a much bigger case. Some have wanted to boil safety in the sea down to one question, and that's the use of the west, while we know that this is about many other questions. We want to travel more things. They've also joined the proposition. Unfortunately, the question of prom is rejected by the government. When it comes to speeding up and certifying people who have fast boats, it is referred to a matter that may come up a while in time. That is why we have also proposed the proposal. There are a lot of measures that come in here – westbound is one of them. But we mean the limit goes by protecting children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4581	It was interesting to bring with it the representative's outrageous contributions to the SV's liberal values. But it is no longer since this spring that one thought that one could leave this principle and have a mandate in the situations where there was a child on board the boat. So the speech we've heard now wouldn't apply if two parents had their 14-15-year-old child, very good for swimming, on board the boat. It seems a little bit strange. SV has submitted a proposal for further investigation of a number of things, but one has therefore failed to submit proposals regarding the life jacket, which this case originally started with. Then my question is why SV supports the proposals of the government parties, to which one is critical, while one has thus failed to promote his own proposal, which one was concerned about in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4588	Here there are a lot of different things that the representative asks questions about. Only to take the representative from the Left a little in defense: here, a distinction must be made between liberal and liberal. Liberalism is linked to an economic system. As I said in my post: SV is for a fairly strong taxing and quite strong regulation to ensure protection for vulnerable groups. This is not such a case, except for children. I know that the Center Party is otherwise concerned with protecting children in particular, and why is it so haphazard over it in this hall from the Center Party just in this case, how unportunity is it? But again to perhaps the most important question in the post from the representative: Are we going to support this? Yeah, we think there's a line going on. Children shall be provided with additional protection. We believe that if we really want to address the most important reasons, with regard to this group of 50 plus, which is characterized by alcohol, the Central Party, if one is really concerned about them, should support the Christian People's Party's proposal on the per million limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4598	The Green Party places personal responsibility high, whether it is personal responsibility each of us has for the future of the earth, or it is personal responsibility we have to take on the consequences of the things we choose to do in everyday life and leisure. In Norway, as a rule, people take responsibility for their own security in activities that we carry out voluntarily. We go for a walk in the woods with sharp weapons, we dive to 30 meters deep in the night, we go skiing alone in the middle of the winter, and some jump out of high stuff with nice dresses on them. The state does not oblige us to use safety equipment when we do these things. It just asks us to use our heads, and otherwise it wants us good luck. Moving in nature on nature's premises and on its own responsibility is a good tradition, and we're going to keep it. But about 2 million Norwegians are on a boat trip in a year. We have about 850,000 recreational boats, and we're moving more and more on the sea. So the question of a life jacket directive concerns a lot of people. Fortunately, since 1970, the number of deaths at sea has been halved. Much of that improvement is attributed to attitude-creating work. But in 2014, 34 people drowned from recreational boats, and 27 of them drowned because they didn't have a vest. 34 deaths are 34 too many. The probability of getting killed if you land in the sea without floating equipment is 12 times greater than if you have floating equipment. Life jackets obviously make it easier to find people when the accident occurs. The cost of society is, as you know, great when it comes to looking for people who have been killed without a life jacket. Above all, the load comes on relatives, who lose someone they might not have lost if they had used a life jacket. The likelihood of fewer drowning accidents and the tragedies they bring are heavy arguments for the directive on lifejackets. Moreover, much experience suggests that it has an eye-catching effect in addition to the direct effect of the directive. At the same time, there is no doubt that a general directive on the use of lifejackets for everyone in a boat less than eight metres on board can become a comprehensive directive and be seen as a rather rigid intervention. In blank summer days, there are probably several people who want to make up their own mind about how literally they want to take such a mandate, and the father is of course present for people to practice a full mandate relatively much at their own discretion. That is why, after previous treatment, the government has come back to Stortinget with a proposal to place a life jacket only for children under 16. We see this as an honest attempt to soften a rigid directive, but the problem with the proposal is that this age group is already the best person to use a life jacket. The most vulnerable group for drowning accidents is known as men over 40 years of age. In other words, a ban for children up to 16 years of age is completely in place on those groups that are most vulnerable. Safety at sea is primarily – and will always be – a matter of knowledge, responsibility and judgment. Safety equipment will help, but it will never replace personal responsibility and knowledge. That is why the Greens share their views on rescue measures in the Environment Party. But taking responsibility itself also means taking responsibility for listening to people and listening to professionals. We know that the working group, the rescue company and the police have fully assessed the injunctions and the objections to full injunctions, and they are very clear that a warrant will work and can be implemented. Besides, people want a warrant. This takes the Green Party's responsibility for taking this seriously. We therefore support the proposal to amend the Kleinbootsgesetz § 23 so that a full directive on the use of life jackets will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4614	It is a little surprising to hear the representative of the Environment Party Dei Green on the platform now, where he argues in so far against the decision of the Environment Party on last June, simply to ask the government to bring a Western stop for children. Since they were interested in joining and improving maritime safety, and were in that decision, we invited them to join in and make the comments that we now had in this matter. I have entered the comments: ‘It is not only at sea that Norwegian outdoor life poses a risk. Nevertheless, it is rooted practice in Norway that we do not have State safety directives or bans in outdoors — not even in the most risky forms of outdoor life.’ This was the opinion of the Green Party a few days ago, and I wonder why the Green Party has changed its mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4625	As I have just explained from the Chair, this is basically the point of view of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European What we are doing in the Green Party is taking responsibility by taking note of these recommendations. That is why we support the proposal for a directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4630	Now it was so that the report that the previous government got worked out, there were a lot of recordings. Well, there were 19 hearing aids that could be used to make recordings, and it wasn't like all of these experts to whom the representative Hansson refers, were in charge of a general Western mandate. The rope link was among those who thought this was an unnecessary intervention. It's a union that has thousands of members, and also has the right to have an opinion. Does the representative Hansson not think that one should also listen to the Federation of Sails in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4635	Yes, as a very keen sailor, I am definitely listening to both the Sail Federation and everyone else who has different opinions. As I also explained, there are different opinions in the Greens/Greens/EFA. We have simply made a balance, where the final result is based on what we perceive as the most serious professional recommendations, and where the police also make it quite clear that the ban is both desirable and feasible. That's what underlies our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4640	I think of the Green Party as the greenest and freest open-air party in Norway – a party that is concerned that people can enjoy the freedom of God's wild nature, without too many limitations and without too many regulations, as Rasmus Hansson himself said in his speech, that most people have to decide and use their heads themselves. There is still a good mountain sweat rule that says that you should turn in time, and that it is not too late to turn around, so I am waiting anxiously for the voting later this evening. But I wonder what has happened in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Remember, this applies not only to the sea, as I hear Rasmus Hansson refers to several times, it will also apply to small lakes and small ponds. Why not in any case limit the requirement not to apply to rowing boats and small boats in lakes, ponds and e.g. mountain waters?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4645	I am very pleased that the representative has a precise and good view of what the Greens stand for as the greenest party in Norway. I can just repeat that we don't have a dogmatic view of this particular question. This is an attitude that we have doubted by balancing on the one hand the attitude to responsibility for our own travels out in nature and on the other side the fact that we can save a lot of lives by supporting this intervention. I do not have a bad conscience that we are not completely categorical about the fact that one is absolutely right and the other is completely wrong, but I have a very good conscience that we have done a good, democratic job in the Green Party and come to this result.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4652	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4655	Norway is a boat nation. A 2012 survey shows that almost half of the Norwegian population are on board a boat during the season. Therefore, it is natural that the Storting is engaged in recreational boating – and not least safety related to this. This political attention is also reflected in the strict requirements and rules for the use of recreational craft in Norway. The government is now proposing a further tightening of the law, as a result of the Storting decision last year. We have therefore put forward a proposal on the imposition of floating equipment for children and young people under 16. The government's proposal is based on a balance of several factors. I think the authorities should be careful about regulating people's leisure activities and natural experiences. We must have respect for the freedom that natural experiences and recreation give us. I believe in freedom under responsibility, and sometimes there should be limits to politics. It also acknowledges that it is not all society can and should regulate itself out of it. A number of activities would pose risks, including: in the wild, both by land and by sea. Today we have a directive to have floating equipment available to everyone on board a recreational boat. This requirement well balances the need for good safety on board a recreational boat as a society, while retaining responsibility for use on an individual basis. With the government's proposals, I believe we have found an appropriate balance. Children and young people under the age of 16 may not always be expected to maintain their own safety in the same way as adults. They are also more vulnerable in an accident situation. In the survey I referred to initially, it turns out that as many as 80 pst. they use floating equipment “always” or “always” when in a recreational boat. Although boating can always lead to risk, it is not necessarily such a risk that it requires state regulation. We know that boating in Norway is very diverse. This means that general instructions also affect those who already show good seafarership, or those who judge for themselves that they do not need to use floating equipment. The most important thing to prevent drowning accidents is that people have knowledge of safety at sea. The Maritime Directorate is therefore continuously working on awareness-raising work. So does the Rescue Company. That being said, of course, any death as a result of drowning is too much. But we know that mind-creating work brings results. It is not least important for young boat users. A requirement for the youngest will also be educational and educational, so that they hopefully continue to use flotation equipment as adults. Therefore, I believe that the government's proposals will increase the attention on the safety and use of floating equipment, while respecting the freedom of adults to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4688	The Ministry argues why children under the age of 16 should be required and the argument is that they cannot be expected to maintain their own safety due to poor swimming skills and endurance. The Council of State may refer to the professional argument that men between 40 and 75 years of age, which is 90 pst. by the actual group here, have better swimming skills than children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4693	I think I have to remind the representative Boten that the government's starting point was that we didn't want a warrant for any groups. We received an order from Stortinget to promote a proposal with a child-related directive. We have. So it's that kids are good at using float vests, but this will ensure that all kids have to use it all the time. In an accident situation, we know that children are more vulnerable. That's the starting point for the balance we've done. But our starting point was that we didn't want a warrant, a position we have in common with the red-green government, which also didn't implement it in its eight years in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4704	The government is faced with more and more issues of politics, without sufficient professional knowledge. But in this case we actually see that there is a lot of knowledge and a wide range of professional advice about what to do. The government does not choose to listen to the wide range of professional councils, but listens to the authority that stands alone – that is, to the Main Rescue Center, to the Coast Guard, to the Rescue Company, to the police and to the voices of the people, who have in fact stated clearly in the survey that this is what they are committed to doing. Is it by standing up to everyone else and making a proposal that is not very focused on the target group that is currently exposed to drowning accidents that the government believes that the active side of its work is prominent?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4711	The first thing this government did was take a stand on the matter. It did not do the red-green government that had this report lying for a year and a half without thinking anything about it. So we've taken the position that we don't want to impose a ban. It's not like we're offering everything that's healthy, and we're not banning everything that's dangerous. It's a difficult balance, but we've done it. When we received an order from Stortinget for a Western order for children, we delivered it. And so it's that children are more vulnerable, and not all children can take care of themselves. This ban will ensure that all children are safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4716	Then it's 10:00. The President notes that the regulatory time for today's meeting is up and proposes that the Storting should continue the meeting until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4721	Although one does not agree with the political assessment made in this case, one has given great emphasis to the legislative assessments that the Ministry has made, and the proposal that seems to have a majority today is to a large extent a blueprint of the government's original proposal in the proposition – except that one has removed the age limit; it would make the directive wider and in our opinion more effective. But then more from the government parties and SV have been involved in this eight-metre limitation on length. This is also in the proposition. Then it might be tempting to ask the Council of State why the eight-metre limit on length is set, for such an explanation, I think I might be able to achieve more even at the government parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4728	We have dealt with what we perceived was the order from Stortinget, and it was wanted to regulate the west command in an open boat. The open boat is often connected to an 8-meter limit. It is also in other contexts such that ships are regulated based on eight metres. That is why we have promoted this proposal. But the question is in itself good enough, because accidents, including drowning accidents, occur from boats of larger size. But it's based on an assessment of what's an open boat, where most of the accidents happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4735	In addition to talking about the eight red-green years, I note that the Council of State is eager to push the Storting in front of it here. In the case of Decision No: In fact, 475 and 476 as the Stortinget did, it was not about the age limit for the order, but about the fact that there was to be a requirement for a floating vest in recreational boats where there were children in the boat. So why does the Council of State always refer to the Stortinget in the matters that are inconvenient to decide, while one has thus made an independent assessment of the interpretation of the decision made by the Stortinget on 13 June 2014, which proposed to impose the use of float vests in recreational boats where there are children in the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4740	It is now up to the government to interpret the Storting decision when we try to respond to Storting's orders. I haven't pushed anyone in front of me. We went to Stortinget last year with our position not to impose a ban on anyone. It was a difficult issue and a difficult point of view, because it balances several aspects that I have explained. We have tried to interpret the order we received, so we have made proposals based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4745	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4750	Today we adopt a law that will save lives already coming boat seasons. The opposition from the government and the SV today is about freedom not to use life jackets. The proposal of the government parties indicates that parents do not need to wear the life jacket. What kind of role models become parents then? Having your life jacket under the tofta when you're in the sea doesn't help much. A survey of 4,000 people shows that 71 pst. of men and 94 pst. by women for an order. The technical advice of the Maritime Director is that this is a precise measure. Yes, even the rescue company is clear that this is a requirement that works well. The majority in this room believe that a life jacket directive is a good one. It's the Workers' Party happy for – because the west is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4759	Neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party is against people using life jackets in a boat, but we believe that a general directive for everyone is not the way to go. This interferes too far with people's private lives and the ability to decide for themselves. Right wants a free people society that takes responsibility for its own choices, and not a state that regulates everything that can be dangerous. Nor do we think it is good use of resources to oblige the police to check that people use life jackets on a quiet sunny day, or to criminalise sunbathers who are on deck at five knots of speed, without west. We have more faith in information about risks and attitudes. Studies also show that this has the greatest effect. Despite the fact that the number of boats has doubled in recent years, the number of accidents has fortunately decreased. The Maritime Directorate, the Rescue Company and others are making a formidable effort to contribute to this. Most who travel on the sea in smaller boats use floating equipment when the conditions warrant. Accident statistics are peaked by men over 40 years of age in fast boats, how often pro-mille and night darkness play a significant role. When the Norwegian law on both speed and per mill is broken in this way, I do not believe that the life jacket for everyone is the solution. Rather, in our view, police resources should be put in place to remove those who endanger the lives of both themselves and others. We can't make promises for anything that's dangerous. Initially, the Right does not want this directive, but we are of course dealing with the fact that the majority of the population was of a different opinion and therefore supports the government's proposal for a west ban for children up to 16 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4772	In Norway there are a total of 752,000 recreational boats, and even in Mjösa there are about 12,000 boats. Nearly half of the Norwegian people have a boat or have an indirect relationship with the boat by having family or friends who have a boat. Everyone is, of course, concerned about safety at sea, and the vast majority of boaters behave nicely. But although there are always a few who stand out both in terms of lack of boating skills, too high a prom and too high a speed, I am not subject to further instructions and further regulations, which will hit the boaters most. The problem is not that we have too few regulations, regulations and restrictions, nor that we have a lack of legislation. The problem is that today's legislation is not enforced strictly enough or well enough. The majority of the population's proposal today that a life jacket should be used in a boat that is less than eight metres and on the move is, to put it mildly, unsound and unpresist. It's little concrete, it's little thoughtful, and it's impossible to enforce just and objectively. Such unprecise legislative proposals will only lead to coincidences and injustices in relation to the enforcement of the law, which in turn may lead to ‘advocacy’ and legal proceedings. What's actually velocity? It is not defined whether the propulsion or the so-called speed is due to engine power, or whether it is veins, or whether it is wind. You can lie down and relax in a small rowboat on a quiet mountain water, or you can lie on deck in a motorboat along the coast and just run with the power, but then you still have to wear a life jacket if this bill is adopted. The majority of the Committee points out that most accidents occur as a combination of several factors, such as: high speed and lack of use of flotation equipment. So it would have been a little bit understandable and a little bit logical if speed had been defined as e.g. speed above 20 knots. Or to make it as simple as possible: already use the current rules. Put the requirement of speed up to the rule of a maximum of five knots if you are close to 100 meters away from land. And what about rowboats? If you're going to take a bath, you're going to have to put on the vest when you're riding out of the country, but you're going to have to take off the vest when you're going to take a bath. That's when you really need the vest, when you're out in the water, to prevent you from drowning. And when you get back up in the boat and rudder to shore, you have to put on your vest. This is just getting weird and too stupid. I'm glad that SV sees it, I'm glad that Right sees it, and that the Progress Party sees it. I think it's sad to say that it seems that this is going to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4788	I thought maybe I'd try at the end of the debate with a little reconciliation post. It was before the representative Johnsen went to the pulpit. I'm not going to comment on his articles. I experience it as much as an attack on the legislative competence of the department as at the political discretion of the majority of the population. I live well with both parts. But I think it's important after such a debate as this one to emphasize that I feel that one in all parties has an commitment to bring down the number of drowning accidents, and that one is willing to use instruments to achieve the goal. We already have a significant amount of legislation, and then the question is, where is the border going? What's my hope now is that this decision will have a majority in the Storting. It will enter into force from 1 May. I believe that the debate that has been on the injunction has been important, and can contribute to increased awareness of the use of the West. I think it's important to realize that what's the most effective attitude to have is that the vest is something you always use when you're on board a boat, and it's not suitable to make a concrete assessment of whether the drowning hazard is imminent or not. Most accidents occur unexpectedly, and the overall objective must be to reduce the number of accidents, the number of drowning accidents. Then we get a decision on this. Of course, the government is free — and has also announced — to come back with further assessments related to maritime safety, including: fast boats later. And we're looking forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4801	This has been a bit of a cool debate, if it's allowed to use some kind of expression here in the hall. It almost sounds to some as if this is a serious interference in private life. It sounds like this is going to hit people in the strongest possible way. It really reminds me a little of the debate on safety on the road. We've seen that the government doesn't want average measurements on the way either. I believe that safety both at sea and at sea is about improving driver behaviour and also regulating driver behaviour. Therefore, it is important both with average measurements on the road and with a floating vest in the boat. It's also a little strange when we adults have to be role models for our children, that the children have to be assigned a float vest, but not the adults – that's a completely unintelligible logic. Someone gets to excuse me, but this can't be anything but pure and cut populism to free those who think it's a little hard to put on new, modern vests that are very discreet. This is unreasonable in terms of safety at sea, just as it is unreasonable not to introduce several distance average measurements on Norwegian roads. I'm proud to belong to a party that puts life and health first, and that is willing to impose some de minimis restrictions to bring down the accident figures, whether they're at sea, or whether they're on the road. That SV has come into this company, I think to this extent is a little strange, but it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4810	I have said much earlier in this debate, but the post to Tor André Johnsen made me have to get up again. I think it is important that representatives know what to vote for. The representative, Johnsen, was very clear that the device that applies to boats is less than eight metres, outdoors and on the move, unpresidious. There's at least a specific order about how to deal with the law, and I think that's incredibly important. But I want to tell the representative that it's good to know what you're going for. The proposal from the Right and the Advance Party states: «§ 23 a Use of suitable floating equipment on board In a recreational boat of less than eight metres in length, persons under the age of 16 shall wear suitable floating equipment during outdoor stays in the boat when the boat is in service.» The representative Johnsen must be aware that it is the device for which he himself is to vote tonight. So it's important to bring it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4822	I'm not going to draw this out for that very long over midnight. I heard the president say at noon. 2 – I hope it’s not the level of ambition for today’s meeting, but one can quickly end up with it. For or against life jackets, it's not what decides how committed you are to safety at sea. I think everyone in this room is in agreement with me – deep down. The question is whether a requirement for the use of lifejackets is the right way to go in order to increase safety at sea. That's the big question here. As there are several in this room to introduce this law – I will not tear up again in my criticism of her – I would like to attach some questions to her whom I hope those who support the proposal for a decision will take it further. There are the following questions: Is the promise, as it is formulated, understandable enough? Would she be perceived as being unfair by someone? Will this be the risk group that we're talking about here -- men of 40 plus -- the group that I'm part of? And will promises be followed up by the police authorities, or will it be left to the individual to conform to the laws? I think they decide the success of this law – whether it will achieve its purpose. I very much hope that she increases safety at sea, but I have my doubts, and I also have my ideological doubts as to whether this is the way to create security in general in society. Then I'm not going to start a new discussion, but I'm going to end with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4837	I just want to comment on a couple of articles and make some comments. One of the posts I reacted to was when Else-May Botten all the time referred to the expert selection and how important it is to listen to this expert selection. Yes, in many ways it's important to listen to expert selections, but our role as politicians is in one way not to swallow them outright. Then we can just leave the experts here in the hall. We need to use our sense of belonging to a minority as well as multiples in such an expert group, but at the same time seek information from other places. That's exactly what underlies the Right's position in this matter. Then I'm also a little surprised by Freddy de Ruiter, who hasn't come to realize that there's a lot of demands and obligations for children, who don't apply to adults, for example. Children's seat in a car. You can go on and on with these things in the infinite, but it can't be done. But a west front for children is there to secure children's dishes and opportunities to be safe in a boat. Else-May Botten commented on the position of a representative from the Advance Party if a boat is below or above eight meters. The reason why the Right and Advance Party voted in favour of that proposal was precisely that a Western ban for children is a good intervention when it comes to children's rights and opportunities to have it well in the boat, and a minor intervention for the adults, who escape a west ban. That was the whole background for this. This eight-meter thing comes from the Workers' Party and this expert selection they've been relying on in all the ways they're doing here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4846	I have received some comments here, among others. from Freddy de Ruiter, that this is no intervention in personal freedom. I then record that the representative from the Workers' Party and I have a completely different definition of what is the intervention of public authorities in personal freedom. The fact that the bulk of the population has to be forced by law, for example: I have to wear a life jacket just lying and floating with the current on Mjösa in my small boat, which I have not had time to spend for several years, is at least for me an intervention in my personal freedom. When you're going to lie down and sunbathe and relax and follow the current, you're on the move. You lie down and relax and kiss, and then you have to wear a life jacket. That it's not an unnecessary intervention in personal freedom, it's totally unintelligible to me. In the case of another comment I received, from Else-May Botten regarding the government's proposal, the representative from the Workers' Party knows very well that it was not our primary position, we did not want to impose any requirement for the use of a life jacket at all. It was an attempt at a compromise based on the debate that was in Stortinget last June. That is why the proposal has come forward – there are no other reasons for it. Otherwise, I want to take up something from my line to the Central Party instead, that the proposal favors the rich. Because it's a little interesting that if you buy a boat over eight feet – that's the funnitic disease that many people might know about, that you should have bigger and bigger boat – and have the chance to buy a bigger boat, you'll be able to avoid this kind of funny, unnecessary and strange bill. And as I said before, there is absolutely no greater danger of drowning if you fall overboard from a larger or from a smaller boat. If you fall overboard, the possibility of drowning is equal in any case, regardless of the size of the boat. I think that's a little bit important to get there. It also shows that the proposal that is now being adopted is of little consideration. But although the proposal is hopeless, and although it is not thought out, I am comforted by the fact that when what we call cucumber time comes to summer, and the boat season is on top, and the irritation from the boat crew is going to be at the top of this life jacket directive, then at least we in the Progress Party are not going to be hung out in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4857	In a few years this is generally accepted, just like seat belts in a car. As far as I know, it was probably a bit of the same discussion when it was introduced many, many years ago. I guess it was also, as far as I remember, and I've seen, the subject of a little bit of the same discussion about freedom. Freedom must always be balanced against the effects of, for example, these kinds of security measures, and I think that makes sense. The protection of life is in that way a key. But back to what's about role models, that we adults should be role models for children. I have a question: what should an answer to the child, or the youth, of 15 years of age who asks, Mom, why don't you have a life jacket on you? Dad, why don't you have a life jacket? No, it's because on the Stortinget they've decided that we who are over 16 years old should not have a vest. Or are you going to answer that we don't need a vest, or that we're so good at swimming that we don't need it, or that the risk of drowning isn't as high as the risk of drowning? It's a hopeless discussion. It is almost like sitting in the car, attaching the child and not putting on the seat belt. Neither will children accept or understand. Now it doesn't look like this is going to be adopted, but maybe this could lead to children putting pressure on adults to use float vests. At least we politicians should not adopt a policy that does not make adults exemplary in the use of safety equipment, both in boats, in cars and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4864	I took the strict neck of the president as a hint, so I'll be brief. It can't be that any improvement will have to come with a law order. It can't be that we don't think the parents can think for themselves. It cannot be that we in the Grand Duchy do not believe that parents do not go ahead as good role models, unless we have passed it by law. All the statistics we got presented in the hearing told us that the good results that had come over the years have come through people thinking about, changing attitudes and getting better at using life jackets. That's why we have so many fewer deaths now, and that's why the Norwegian Sailing Federation says they want to continue the good attitude-making work and let people take responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4871	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4887	From one freedom debate to another, you might say. In February Palestine’s friends at Stortinget met here with representatives from the Military Court Watch, who are monitoring the situation, especially for children in Israeli prisons. They were very concerned that there had to be a stronger international pressure on Israel to make progress so that these children could have their fundamental rights fulfilled. On March 17 there was a new election in Israel. It was not a good day for all of us who hope and believe that a two-state solution is still possible. Netanyahu won the election to frighten that the Arabs flocked to the polls, and by promising that a Palestinian state would never see the light of day with him by power. Unfortunately, there have been few points of light in the peace process, and for many Palestinians the situation has gone from bad to worse in recent years. I myself have been in Palestine regularly in the last twelve years, and there are many strong impressions, especially the impression of meeting individuals. I visited a warm summer day one of the few Palestinian families who still live in their own house in the illegal settlement of Beit Hadassah in the old town of Hebron. One daughter in the family had just been subjected to violence by the settlers who surrounded their house. She came with her arm in the barrel and had sewn many stitches in her head. The man who had committed the assault was never punished. No investigation was even opened. Violence against Palestinians from settlers is often reported, but two-thirds of the cases are committed without any legal follow-up. Later in the day, we were at the base of the old town. Then we saw how stone-throwing Palestinian children were being punished. There came a whole bunch of soldiers marching through narrow streets. In the middle, there were three boys -- they couldn't have been more than 12-13 years. All the boys had a gun pointing at the back of their heads. That's how they were pushed through the old town on their way to the police station to set an example. And while I was being brutally arrested for throwing stones, I thought of the settler who had subjected a little girl to gross violence, and who was allowed to walk around quite freely in the same city. This unfair discrimination creates a breeding ground for recklessness and desperation, and it is in this pit that extremism causes fertiliser to grow. The three boys I was witnessing were arrested in Hebron, not a single case. This was just one of many examples of systematic imprisonment of Palestinian children. Each year between 500 and 700 children are arrested and prosecuted in Israeli military courts. There is no other country, according to UNICEF, where children are systematically placed on military youth courts. By definition, these courts cannot guarantee that children’s rights are respected. Israel is also repeatedly criticized for violations of the Children's Convention. In February 2013, UNICEF launched a report which concluded that child rights violations are comprehensive, systematic and institutionalised. Often the children are not informed of their rights. They often do not have access to water, toilet or medical assistance. Many are subjected to physical and mental violence and are often pressured to sign a confession written in a language they do not understand. UNICEF therefore recommended 38 points that had to be fulfilled in order for Israel to comply with the Children’s Convention. But when the UN Human Rights Committee last November dealt with the human rights situation in Israel, they once again said that the Committee recognises that there has been a positive development on paper, but they are concerned that the reforms do not lead to a change in practice and repeated again the criticism. In February of this year, UNICEF presented a new report which reviews the 38 recommendations they made two years ago. There are some flashes of light. There are small steps in the right direction, but many of the measures still will not benefit children because they are often suspected of security breaches and are not covered by these good measures. For example, Military Order 1745 says that all child questioning is to be video-monitored, but this does not apply where matters relate to safety, such as safety. for children throwing stones. The UNICEF report also shows that the abuse of Palestinian children continues. During the period 2013 to September 2014, UNICEF went through 208 cases involving Palestinian children in Israeli prisons. 171 of those children said that they were subjected to physical violence, and 163 of the children said that they had not been informed of their rights – especially important is the right of a lawyer or the right not to speak. We still have a long way to go before the Palestinian children get their fundamental rights fulfilled. There is reason to commend both UNICEF, Military Court Watch, lawyers and civil society for the thorough work done to document what is happening, and to exert pressure on Israel. I also want to thank all the Norwegian organisations that have recently run a campaign on this at home. They have spread knowledge and commitment to the rights of these children. This debate is about the fact that all people have rights that cannot be broken and that children have a special right to protection. But it is also about how we can contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict. Investing in children and young people is investing in the future. It's these kids who are going to grow up and live side by side with their Israeli neighbors. It's these kids that I hope someday can realize a two-state solution. It is said that a good childhood lasts life, but too many of these children have no good childhood to build on. In Gaza, children who are now ten years old have already experienced three wars – three wars where children and civilians are the most badly hit, wars where it is not possible to escape from the bombs, because Gaza de facto is the world's largest prison. Everyone has somehow lost someone in the family or someone they know, and when the war was over, schools and homes were buried, and the same could probably also be said about the hope for many children. On the West Bank, children grow up and see their country getting smaller and smaller, their homes are being demolished by Israeli authorities to make room for more settlements, so hundreds of children are being imprisoned and traumatized every year. Emad Al-Rozzi has researched refugee children and traumas. He visited last year's Globalisation Conference in Oslo. He told about the consequences for many of the children who were arrested. ‘The children become depressed. They lose interest in playing, communicating and socializing. They draw away from others, from family and friends. They have low communication and concentration capabilities. [[...]] They also lose interest in laughing." This does not create a ground for a peaceful solution to an excessive conflict. I therefore look forward to the Foreign Minister explaining – at least to the question of – how he will help to ensure that children also in Israeli prisons meet their rights to legal certainty and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4926	Let me first thank the representative Håheim for an important and timely interplay. The government shares the concern of arrested Palestinian children. This is a topic the Ministry of Foreign Affairs priorities to address both in bilateral talks and in the relevant UN bodies. Already during my first visit to Israel in November 2013, I addressed this issue with Israeli authorities. By this month, Secretary of State Bård Glad Pedersen has also raised the question in his conversations in Israel. I also want to refer to Report. St. l0 for 2014–2015, Possibilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy. This Communication is for the consideration of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. The government here determines that it is a priority area to work to protect children in armed conflict and to combat violence against children. Children and young people should not be deprived of their freedom. Prison without legal law and judgment is unacceptable. When children and young people are imprisoned without law and judgment, this is a double wrong. Nevertheless, in line with relevant international conventions in this area, the human rights and legal certainty of children must be respected. UNICEF, Military Court Watch, to which the interpellant refers, as well as Israeli human rights organisations, have all done a detailed and important job of documenting violations and violations of fundamental principles against imprisoned Palestinian children. Too many Palestinian children are arrested every year. There is also evidence that too many of these children are exposed to violence and other abuses that no child should experience. UNICEF has put forward 38 proposals to reform the Israeli military prison system to ensure that children’s rights are respected. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has over time reminded Israeli authorities that the treatment to which children are exposed violates international rules that Israel has committed itself to comply with. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stressed that children are a particularly vulnerable group and that their rights must always be respected. Civil society is important in order to draw attention to the rights of children. Norway supports Israeli human rights organisations working for the rights of Palestinian children. We have also supported a rehabilitation project directed by Redd Barna and Norwegian KFUM and YMCA in East Jerusalem for Palestinian children who have been in Israeli prisons. The Israeli Ministry of Justice points out on its side that 70–75 pst. of all offences committed by minors on the West Bank who are being prosecuted by Israel, involve the use of violence. This could be throwing rocks or molotov cocktails. From the Military Court, we have been informed that although many younger children are also arrested by Israeli soldiers, no Palestinian children under the age of 12 and no children between the ages of 12 and 14 have been imprisoned in 2014. Seven out of eight Palestinian minors in prison are between 16 and 18. In talks with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Israeli authorities stress that they attach great importance to the rights of children. They state that there have been several important changes in recent years, and that the Israeli State Attorney has instructed the Israeli defence to exercise the utmost care in the face of minor attacks on the West Bank. UNICEF also confirms in its reports – as the interpellant had in mind – that there have been several improvements in relevant Israeli legislation and instructions. Specific measures include raising the age of authority of Palestinian children to 18 in 2011, in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. A shorter limitation period for offences committed by minors has also been introduced. Furthermore, the prison period for the first trial is limited, and measures are in place to improve the warning system against offenders and the information provided to minors about their rights. Military officers have also been instructed to avoid arrests of children at night, which Norway has also been concerned about. According to organisations, the number of children from the West Bank in Israeli prisons is halved from 2009 to 2014. Here it turns out that international pressure and pressure in the region is working. Intensification of Israeli legislation — and circular — shows that international attention to fundamental human rights is important and results. At the same time, it appears, unfortunately, that changes to the legislation do not necessarily result in sufficient changes to the ground. Too many Palestinian minors are still being imprisoned. Organisations also report from their studies that a majority of minors respond to the fact that they have both been subjected to violence and have not been met by either the deputy or the lawyer for questioning. This is not acceptable. We expect Israel's own goals to actually be pursued. Those responsible at political level must be assured that they are making changes on the ground. Children need special protection. Therefore, they have expressed their own rights in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, which is 25 years old this year. The Children's Convention gives children the same basic rights, no matter who they are, and where they live. Norway is working to strengthen the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in International Fora, and in particular in the United Nations. This work also focuses on the legal certainty of children. Among other things, we have actively supported the decision of the United Nations General Assembly of December last year asking the Secretary-General of the United Nations to conduct a study and monitoring of the conditions of children deprived of freedom. This study is to be started. Furthermore, Norway provides support to the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Violence against Children and the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict, as well as to non-governmental organisations both in Israel and in Norway working to strengthen the legal security of children. The government will continue to address the situation of children with Israel, and we will continue our cooperation with like-minded countries to promote respect for the international conventions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4958	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for their clear, clear and good answers. I'm glad that the government shares the concern that has been raised, and that you use every opportunity to address these questions. I am also pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned civil society in Israel, for Norway is one of the countries in Europe that contributes most to supporting NGOs in Israel working for human rights and to elucidate the situation on the West Bank. The truth is that many Israelis are not well aware of what is happening on the West Bank, and it is in itself important to make progress in the peace process that there is more information. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned with these 38 recommendations. We can discuss the degree of them, but there are four of the 38 recommendations that have been made, and four of them are under the status of ‘in progress’ – the rest have not happened in two years. It's small steps, but it's going in the right direction. There is in no way any significant progress yet, especially when we know that very many of the measures will not concern matters relating to safety. I'm glad the Foreign Minister mentions that the most important thing here is not what you write on the paper and what instructions you give, but that you get a change on the ground. It only underlines the need for continued international pressure and for many to move in the right direction. The numbers I referred to in my main post, which is from, by September 2014 at the latest, show that very many of these are still being subjected to violence and are being pressured to sign documents that they do not know what is, and without any lawyer present. Then it might not be so strange that the percentage being judged is very high. Finally, I would like to say that the core of this debate is about the occupation and the illegal settlements. Without the occupation, these children would not be in prison. We also know that very many of these children are being arrested near settlements. It may seem like you're running a mass detention centre of children, also to scare the Palestinian civilian population from protesting against the settlements. These children also often get a sentence that makes them release, but if they do something nonsense for the next three years, they are put in prison and can be sentenced to over 20 years in prison for example. rock-casting. We can discuss whether rock throw is tricked, but 20 years in prison hardly qualify for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4971	I would like to address the issue of the last question raised by the interpellant, which is essential for finding solutions in the locked conflict in the Palestinian territories and Israel – on the question of a two-state solution. At the moment you've got a Palestinian state and look at the 1967 borders, with the possibility of changing countries, that would have meant that the illegal settlements must have moved out of much of what is the West Bank, and Palestinian self-government would become a state of their own, with the jurisdiction resulting from it. There is no doubt that the occupation on the West Bank is the germ of the conflict that we see today. Only a resumption of the negotiations on a two-state solution – which I am pleased with the interpellant now emphasises so strongly – is what is essential to get in place. I also share the interpellant's view that this may seem difficult for months to come, but I have noticed that Prime Minister Netanyahu has now clarified his statements and once again stated that he has a desire for a two-state solution. Then we'll see if this manifests itself in a real will to resume negotiations with the Palestinians on a two-state solution. Without a political trail and without a political process, I am afraid that we will get more examples of both violence and strong frustrations, not least among children and young people on the West Bank – which will once again increase the problem that the interpellant is addressing today. It is not sustainable to continue as today, and I appeal to the new Israeli government to release immediately the tax revenues that have not been made available to the Palestinians in recent months, which in turn poses major economic challenges for the Palestinian self-government. When I spoke to President Abbas a few days ago, he said that it would also have to be expected that security cooperation with Israel will be lifted if this money is not paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e4982	I know it's cute when you start these debates, thanking both the interpellant and the minister who's been black for what they've done. Today, I think it might be a little more sincere than what I've done before, because I think Stine Renate Håheim should have all the credit for addressing a very important matter, and I think the Foreign Minister was very clear and clear in his speech in the answer to the question. It's late in the evening, and this debate may not get the attention it really deserved, but I hope that this will be one of many debates that the Stortinget is going to have during this year, about what can be our contribution to the terribly locked situation we see in the Middle East. Today it is a week since the Israeli people went to elections, and after having followed Israeli politics for many years, I will admit that I did not have very many positive thoughts about what could come out of the Israeli elections. I saw no reason for optimism. Nevertheless, I – and terribly many people around the world – left with a sense of enormous disappointment after the election was over, for that choice was an even clearer confirmation of the hopelessness of the conflict than many had imagined. I see today that Netanyahu regrets his fear that Arabs used their voting rights. It's quite appropriate to call it a very unacceptable play, but the sad thing was that the play seemed to be in order – he made a fall-back choice. He went out just before the election and promised that under his leadership there would never be any Palestinian state. It was a brutally honest play from the Prime Minister of Israel, and if he is serious – now I see that he has moderated something, but with the policy he is pursuing, that is all reason to believe that he is serious – there is a need for innovation in international work. In this picture of disappointment, hopelessness and frustration, it's easy to lose heart, it's easy to think it's no use. We can never allow ourselves to do that. We must be impatient for justice. We can never get used to occupation and oppression. We'll always see the big picture, see what this is really about, as I think the Foreign Minister did in a good way in his last post, that it's an occupation, and that there's a lack of a Palestinian state. This is what Norwegian Middle East policy must be about. But in the big picture we also have to figure out until the small steps it is possible to take, especially in a time that is now, as it looks so dark. Regardless of what tone Norway thinks should have in the conflict, regardless of what it considers to be the political requirements of the parties, this requirement should be something that we can easily gather on: children in prison must be guaranteed fundamental legal certainty and human rights. Today's policy towards Palestinian children in Israeli prisons is not acceptable, and I am glad that the minister makes it so clearly and that he has taken it up with his Israeli colleagues. I want to bring forward one special group, and there are young Palestinian activists who are being put in prison — some of them under the age of 18. When I was in the AUF, I got many young Palestinian friends, youth politicians I met around the campfire on Utøya and at seminars in Ramallah, progressive, modern youths with a great commitment to freedom for their people. Today, many of them are in prison in Israel. One of those I've been following for years is Hussam Shaheen. He was a young, progressive political talent. He was supposed to be the leader of Fatah Youth. Now he's been in prison for 15 years for his involvement with his people. I would like, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to thank our competent emissaries, both at the Embassy in Tel Aviv and at the Norwegian Representation Office in Palestine, for following up his case and the case of other Palestinian prisoners, both through court proceedings and through visits to prison. It is an important way Norway can follow up our concerns about the imprisonment of young politicians. Prisoning politicians and the use of administrative custody, which means keeping people in prison without law and judgment, is unacceptable, and I would like to hear more about how the Foreign Minister thinks we can continue to engage in this. Of course, imprisonment of political prisoners is serious because it does not belong in a democracy, but it is particularly serious because in that way it is incarcerated what is to be the future of Palestine, those who are to be their hope. Young people today grow up in a society where generations have lived during occupation. The choice to engage peacefully and work for progressive solutions is impressive. When too many of them are met with violence and arrests, an entire generation loses hope. We know that progressive forces in Palestine are under pressure because their solutions have not come about. We must give them the support they need – because they deserve it, but also because it is what makes Israel safer whose progressive forces are winning. As we sit here, the facts on the ground change every day. I look forward to more debates in this Chamber on what might be Norway's contribution in a terrible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5001	The interpellant has raised an important issue, for the fact that children are charged and sentenced in military courts is totally unacceptable. According to UNICEF, what we have heard is at any time around 220 Palestinian minors in Israeli captivity, the younger ones all the way down to the age of 12. By January this year, 16 of the children were under 15 years of age, and two of the children were 12 years of age. Most of the children are imprisoned after throwing stones, as we have also heard, against Israeli occupying forces on the West Bank. According to the Military Court Watch, more than 99 pst ends. of the cases before the military court with judgment. The United Nations Committee on the Protection of Children has therefore strongly criticised Israel for the imprisonment of Palestinian children. Children arrested by military and police are regularly subjected to degrading treatment, often torture, and questioning in Hebrew — a language they do not understand. They must also sign confessions in Hebrew in order to be released, says a report from the Committee in 2013. The UN report concludes that children who come into contact with Israeli military law are consistently and systematically abused throughout the trial, from arrest to interrogation to possible conviction. As we heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway has repeatedly protested against the practice, both directly to Israel and in international forums such as the UN Human Rights Council. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child stresses that all children have fundamental rights related to survival, participation, development and protection against discrimination. Article 37 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children shall not be subjected to torture or violence. Norway must continue to work for the protection of children in armed conflicts and the fight against violence against children and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, Norway is actively working to strengthen the Children’s Convention. The Children’s Convention has been ratified by almost all countries in the world, but a number of countries have made extensive reservations. In recent years, there have been positive developments in key areas such as education and survival. Equally full is the fact that 26 years after the Convention was adopted, very many children live a life far away from the standards set in the Children's Convention. We also see a group of like-minded states deliberately undermining the work of the United Nations on human rights. These cancers we have to do everything we can to fight back. That's why it's important that we build alliances, widely and across regions, that can fight systematic human rights violations. The authorities must be responsible for fulfilling the human rights of children in their own country, through legislation and institutions. Children and young people must be protected from being recruited to armed forces and from violence, abuse and exploitation. At the same time, public authorities need to prioritise resources for fulfilling the rights of children to life, development, health and education. Measures must be targeted at the poorest and the most marginalised children, and children and young people must be allowed to participate, to speak out and organise so that they can promote their own interests and define their needs. It is good that the first 15-year communication on human rights, which is about to be debated in this Chamber, puts human rights at the heart of all foreign and development policies. The message is imperative and timely. Fundamental human rights are under increasing pressure internationally. Participation of children and young people is a good investment in future active citizens who can assert their rights socially, economically and politically. Moreover, the government’s contribution to education in development policy will improve the realisation of children’s rights – both the possibility of participation and the ability to provide children with knowledge of human rights. We have to help all children get the same opportunities to start and finish school, and all children and young people learn basic skills and equip themselves for life. Norway shall also be a driver for respect for international humanitarian law in order to stop militarisation and attacks at schools and universities, including: by taking a leading role in promoting the Lucens guidelines internationally. We cannot compromise with the legal certainty of children. I fully agree that we must continue the pressure on Israel and other countries that break international conventions. Norway needs to do what we can to help strengthen children’s rights. That's why, although it's cute to start with it, I want to finish my post by thanking the interpellant. Stine Renate Håheim has raised an important debate in the pulpit here today, and our foreign minister has given an important and good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5032	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant. This is a very important matter. I also attended that meeting of the Palestinian friends of Stortinget, and was made aware of this problem. That the situation is that of Palestinian children is rooted in the occupation and the political situation that is there. Norway can play an important role – and has played – but can also play a role in the future in the large political picture, which includes: SV has now taken the initiative to approve Palestine. The situation seems quite locked. It has been explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the interpellant and several of the others who have been up and talking here have also described the situation as quite fixed. In this situation, there is the question of whether the Palestinian children in Israeli prisons are coming up. Maybe that's one of the very concrete things we can do with, even in the very short term. It's not easy to see a solution to the other things, sail if we have to keep working with them as well. The situation is serious. I think the situation also arises as part of a strategy to scare and make it difficult for the Palestinians to live in the area that is theirs, and that around the settlements a systematic arrest of Palestinian children is used as a tactic to keep the population in check. It can have consequences for the lives of these children, not only because they are at risk of imprisonment, but also because they are, of course, frightened by being politically active and taking part in what is a naturally democratic right every human being must have, namely the right to work politically for what is meant. The Council of State says that international pressure works, and I think it does. I think the international press is working. But it has to be followed up – all the time. What has happened in these cases is that Israeli authorities have changed parts of their legislation relating to how to care for children, how to arrest them – if they do. The question is whether this will lead to a change in ground practices. Are the new instructions being followed? That's where we can do something from the Norwegian side in addition to what has been said today, namely by supporting civil society organisations, but also the Military Court Watch or other non-governmental organisations, which are doing the whole thing on the ground, namely sitting in the courtroom during the hearings. They are present and are the eyes of the public and world society into the courts in which the children are to have their judges. I could imagine asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he can actually see that a very important part of what we can do is to make sure that there are simply resources to do this work – that there are some international eyes that have competence, that are present and can follow and ensure that the law, as it comes into place, is followed. There are many things you could have said about the situation in the occupied areas, the West Bank and Gaza, but I'm not going to do it now. And there's a lot of things we should do. But one of the things we can actually do, and as I think we can do without having any problems with it, is just to make sure that these kids have help with them when they're arrested, and in the legal cases they're being subjected to. This is a practical solution that Norway can help to achieve quite immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5049	I had originally not intended to participate in the debate, but there is an important debate about how children are treated in different conflicts. But the reason I took the floor is because I think it's been a very distorted debate, where there's been a one-sided focus on one side, i.e. Israel. I'm not the one who will necessarily defend everything the State of Israel is doing, but I think it's strange that you don't talk about the use and abuse of children by the opposing party. We know how, for example, The Hamas terrorist organisation is using children cynically in its fight against the State of Israel and the Jewish people, and I think it is wrong not to be mentioned from this pulpit here today, because all forms of child abuse are wrong, regardless of which side of the conflict it is going on. Then I also react a little to the lack of respect for the ruling of the voters in the Middle East's only democracy, to the fact that Israeli voters through a democratic election, who also have full voting rights – which would be obvious, but fortunately they do – have now made a choice. Then, as elected representatives of the people in Norway, we should respect it to the greatest extent and deal with the Israeli government that is always present and also show a somewhat greater understanding that Israel is a country that is under constant threat, an existential threat from certain neighbouring countries, and not least from terrorist organisations. So I hope you can have a slightly more balanced debate that shows that there are two sides to this conflict. There are two sides to this conflict. It is then difficult to sit still and listen to the attack of one democracy, the rule of law, while the other party, who cynically uses children as living shields, is not mentioned from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5056	Then it is my turn to thank everyone who has participated. I would like to thank you for a good debate, with many good contributions. And I want to thank the Foreign Minister for a very clear and clear speech. So a visit to the last post and the representative Wiborg. I believe that we must make high demands for what the representative Wiborg himself says is a rule of law and a democracy. I think it's a failure statement if it's not allowed to criticize Israel without criticising any other abuse that's being done against children. I just want to stress that I am taking away from any exploitation of children, but I mean we are doing Israel a bear service if we cannot criticise systematic violations of children's rights, when the country is a democracy and a rule of law, as they say themselves. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has chosen a different tone in this debate than the representative of the Progress Party. I want to try to sum up the debate. I've been visiting both Palestine and Israel a lot. What I think is one of the most frightening things, is the development in which the world community in many ways turns to the occupation, that it becomes normalized, and that it causes many young people to lose hope – hopelessness takes over. Then it starts to get dangerous. It's said that when darkness is greater, it might be possible to see light. I must say that I am pleased that the Foreign Minister also mentions the two-state solution. At the latest today, we have received new signals from the United States, from Obama's Chief of Staff, which clearly indicate that the occupation must end. I agree with Karin Andersen. I think the international press is working. I also think the representative has a good point when she points out that it is possible for Norway to make practical changes on the ground by supporting Israeli organisations working for human rights and peace. I think the international press is working. I wish – in the light of the recent elections and the results in Israel – that it was also possible to discuss for example. sanctions against the housing economy and that kind of thing, but we'll have to take another night.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5070	I take with me the recordings that have been made, with ideas on how to contribute to ensuring compliance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. There will be important months to come in the Middle East and in the relationship between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Being able to relaunch two-state negotiations is crucial. It will be the only solution to prevent more political unrest and to create hope in the region. Norway is the leader of the Palestinian Federation and has been doing so since the Oslo process in 1993. Those of us who visited this area at the end of the 1980s and traveled into Ramallah and the West Bank – where there were no state institutions at all, where there was a great deal of shortage – have seen that in the years that have passed, there is a lot of importance built up both in Ramallah and around the Palestinian self-government. So those who say that nothing has come out of the Oslo process, I disagree. What is the framework for a future Palestinian state is laid there. When I had conversations with President Abbas a few days ago, there was also a strong desire for the international donors to continue to contribute, so that the Palestinian self-government authorities could build on this basis. If Norway is to be recognised unilaterally — which has been mentioned by some — the Palestinians will not get any closer to an independent country through such recognition. We saw Sweden do this – and the case has not moved one millimeter. The only thing Norway can achieve by using the Recognition Institute is that we do not want the same opportunities through the donor country group, where we are now conducting an important dialogue, not least between Palestinian authorities and Israeli authorities. On Sunday I had a long conversation with the Israeli Foreign Minister, Avigdor Lieberman. I made it quite clear that the Israelis now have to pay the taxes to the Palestinians. I have also addressed this with the High Representative of the European Union, and we have called for a new meeting of the donor country group in Brussels in May to discuss these issues. This role is important for Norway to continue. It is more important than a blow in the air and demonstration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5081	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5110	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that the speaker on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5117	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the proposers from the Workers' Party and the Centre, who have raised a very important issue in each case. Many in my party have also had a strong commitment to issues relating to swimming, so I am glad that we have been given the opportunity to deal with this matter. I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee. We've been doing a few laps, but I think we're going to land the case in a good way here today. Unfortunately, we have a disproportionate number of drowning accidents in Norway. Good swimming characteristics are essential to prevent these gloomy statistics, and I am therefore pleased that we are now implementing an action plan to ensure that children and young people have good swimming skills and characteristics. I look forward to what to put into such a plan, because there is no doubt that there is a need for effort in this area, and there are many good forces that both can and want to contribute in that way. The debate that is promised when we are going to discuss this topic shows that it is of great interest and that there are many stakeholders who have knowledge in this area. I hope that the Council of State will assess whether and to what extent voluntary teams and organisations can be used to strengthen children's and young people's swimming skills and to teach them how to thrive in water, not least. As I said, there's been a great deal of commitment to my game around this question, and we've arranged a little mini-seminar here on the Stortinget on this topic. It showed us that there are a lot of people who have a strong commitment and who have a lot of knowledge in this area, and I hope we can use them when we're going to work on these matters further. Learning children and young people to swim is not just a public responsibility. The parents also have an important responsibility here, because we live in a country with a long-distance coast, and the water is a natural part of our everyday life, and then it is important that parents take part in teaching their kids to swim and thrive in water. But for those who don't learn to swim at home, it's important that they learn it at school. That's why we're also pleased that the government has taken the initiative to revise the curriculum in physical exercise so that we can make it clear what it means to be swimmers. I'm glad that the committee here points to the Nordic requirement of the swimmer's mark as a standard that can be relied upon for that with swimmer's ability. In the left, we also believe that self-storage must be part of the curriculum. Most drowning accidents occur outdoors as a result of falls from land, bridges, boats or during bathing, and many of them drowning can swim. That's why it's important to learn how to swim with clothes, to learn to be in cold water, and it's important to know about safety when you stay in and by the sea. It is an advantage that swimming can be taught as early as possible, and we in the Left are happy that we got with the Christian People's Party and the government parties in the budget conciliation on a grant scheme for swimming training in the kindergartens. Swimming is not just about bringing down the number of drowning accidents, although, of course, it will be the most important thing. Swimming is about being safe in water, it's about learning to like being in water, and it's an important starting point for physical activity and for better public health. To learn how to swim, we must have a swimming pool around the country. While more people are building swimming pools today, it is important to encourage further construction of such facilities. As the rest of the committee also points out, it is important that we have an interest-rate compensation scheme that can be used by municipalities. I look forward to the further work to be done around this, and I hope that in the future we will see more kids who can swim, who like in water, and that we will have fewer drowning accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5136	Let me first make it clear that we are now dealing with two representative proposals. One is from the Center Party. The second is from us in the Workers' Party, and it is about drawing up a national action plan to ensure that bathing training is carried out with good quality. Studies show that only 50 pst. by Norwegian teenagers are considered safe – and I underline safe – swimmers. This, of course, is not good enough – and therefore the proposal from us. In October we had a good interpellation debate on this, promoted by Left's Abid Q. Raja. I don't have time to refer the whole debate today, but let me quote some of that left said at the time: ‘Our nation needs a swimlift — a swimlift that includes training on how to rescue itself and others in outdoor aquatic environments.’ In addition, it was said: ‘Left notes with great excitement and glad that several other parties have also raised this issue now, both the Centre Party and the Labour Party have promoted Document 8 proposals, and I would like to commend the proposers for the initiative. And with an overall goal that we have no one to lose in drowning accidents, I am strengthened in the belief that the Storting will agree on something that will make a material difference to today's situation." In addition, it was said: ‘The size has a golden opportunity to adopt minimum requirements. We have to adopt something we think is a minimum, I believe. We in the Left want to work with the Centre Party and the Labour Party, which have promoted two Document 8 proposals, and with other parties who want to adopt something substantive." I recommend that everyone who is concerned about this matter read that debate. It says a lot of good things. But what happens? What does the Left actually mean now, five months after the interpellation? There are good words from Left's Nybø today too, but where was it of all good intentions, where was it of cooperation to get to a majority, which would have meant that we could really get speed on this work? We also recommend the Christian People's Party to read what they said in that debate and what they are now in the committee position. In a comment in the setting, we can read the following: ‘The Committee considers that the parties have agreed to develop a national action plan to ensure that children and young people have good symmetry. The Committee looks forward to the outcome of such an action plan, stressing that it must also provide an indication of the curriculum objective of flexibility, so that the plan is in line with professional advice.’.» I state that this is a unanimous comitology comment, but when we propose to draw up a national action plan, only the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind it. This isn't understandable. Does the Right Party, the Advance Party and not least the Christian People's Party and the Left mean that we should have a national action plan, or do they not? And I ask again, where did all that Left talk about in October? During the examination of this matter, we have had a meeting with, among other things, The Norwegian Life Rescue Company and the Rescue Company. They've given a lot of good, important and useful input. They have many good suggestions on how to make swimming training much better, and it is important to involve them and other non-governmental organisations, such as the Swimming Federation, in the further work on this matter. We have to do what we can to avoid losing human lives in the sea. They underline, inter alia: the importance that swimming training also needs to be conducted outdoors in order to be drowning prevention. The Labour Party believes that we need to clarify the curriculum objectives of swimming skills in line with professional advice, and swimming training cannot be completed until all those who require it can swim according to the objectives of the curriculum. We also believe that the government must set up state guarantee schemes and interest compensation schemes for swimming facilities so that it is prioritised in the municipalities. It is still not too late for the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote for this today. I take this up with me the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5174	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5177	First of all, I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation in this matter. The importance of good swim training shall not be underestimated. Being able to swim, play in water and stay safe near water are important skills for children, young people and adults of all ages. Being safe in such environments and knowing their own limitations can be the difference between life and death. Therefore, swimming training is so important for children and young people. Therefore, it is positive that there is broad consensus in the Committee on this matter and that an overall committee is behind the main lines of the vote. This is a matter in which the Minister of Knowledge has already acted. The Directorate of Education has been given the task of sending, at the hearing, proposals to clarify the objectives of competence in swimming, in order to establish a common understanding of the nature of swimming skills. I believe this is an important signal to the schools, so that they know what objectives they are going to set for swimming lessons. It doesn't just last to be able to stay liquid in water, and this is reflected in the Education Directorate's proposal. It contains concrete objectives. Let me mention someone: to be able to swim a hundred meters on your stomach and to be able to dive and pick up an item from the bottom. The proposal is based on the traditions of the Norwegian and international description of what swimmers are. I have noticed that the swimming association is very positive about this proposal for a concrete understanding of what the school is going to put into the term ‘water’. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government agrees to send to the hearing a proposal for a skill test in swimming. I look forward to the response of the municipalities and organisations to this. We all need good suggestions on how to strengthen the teaching of swimming. Then we also have to assess whether we have good tools to assess whether the students have learned to swim well enough. 7 million have been added to the 2015 state budget. for swimming training aimed at newly arrived minority language children and young people. We need to target our efforts so that we reach those students who, for various reasons, do not learn to swim. Many newly arrived minority-speaking students may not have learned to swim in their home country and may not have parents who can teach them to swim. Then it's important that the school captures them, so that they learn this vital skill. These targeted funds shall contribute to that precisely. I am also very pleased that we have strengthened the interest compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities. Now the ball is on the school owner's field, and I hope they use the opportunity to build and maintain good swimming facilities. For the government and we at Stortinget will do our part in this matter, but we also rely on the municipalities to do their part. I experience a great will from many teams to just that. Not everyone learns to swim at school, while many learn to swim only at school. It underlines the need for close cooperation with parents and non-governmental organisations. I think the key is right here. We have to make sure that all the good forces that can contribute do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5196	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation and for a thorough review of the matter. I would also like to thank both the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, who are raising the debate on an important issue of better education in the field of swimming in school. Both proposals indicate that Norway is poorly addressed in studies on swimming skills among students from 1 to 5th grade. The studies were carried out by Norsk Folkehelpen, the Gebensidarestiftelsen and the Norwegian Smömmebund. The proposals show, inter alia: to a report prepared by Fylkesmannen in East Agder, showing that Norwegian schools do not comply with the requirements of the Training Act on swimming instruction. Being safe in water and being able to swim is important, both for your own safety and to save others if you come up in a situation where people need lifesaving help. According to statistics from Norsk Folkehelp, which I checked at the latest today, 110 people drowned in 2014, and the statistics show that to this year it has drowned seven people. Most drown by falling into the water at the dock, from the boat or by going through the ice. We also see that few drowning, and that most drowning, are men from 40 years of age and up. Even though there are a few kids drowning in relation to adults, we don't have any kids to lose. It's especially for kids that it's useful to put in an effort, so they get used to playing in the water and get their swim skills. It is a fact that our neighboring country has far more students known as swimmers than Norway has. It shows that something has to be done. I am therefore pleased that we have finally received a government, and cooperation parties, which demonstrate the power of action and follow up with clearer requirements of competence in swimming. It strengthens the teaching and thus also the swimming skills of children and young people, and is among other things. The swimming association has been working for many, many years. The Progress Party is also very pleased that the Committee has been set up to draw up a national action plan to improve the swimming characteristics of children. The Committee also asks the government to send out a consultation proposal to introduce a national skill test in primary school and to get to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner on the matter. That is what the Progress Party is looking forward to. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has extended the interest compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities. This makes it easier for municipalities to invest in the pool and not least make sure that there is water in the pools, so that the kids actually get the chance to be in the water. The country around it is doing a lot of positive, and everything from baby swimming to senior swimming is offered. Even I use the opportunity to take my grandchildren on a family bath on Saturdays. It's a pleasure to see how both my little and my big tastes in the water. While these kids are doing well and kissing, they also provide the basis for good swimming skills. I hope that as much as possible will have that opportunity, and I believe that the government has done well with the interest compensation scheme. Unfortunately, we see more children and young people drowning with a minority background. They are often not used to the free play in water with which many Norwegians have grown up. Therefore, it is very positive that the government in the budget provided funds for swimming training for newly arrived minority speakers. Furthermore, for young people with a minority background, it is very important that we make clear demands for schools and municipalities that everyone has equal rights to swim education. Here Norway should set a good example and ensure that all young people, whether girls or boys, can play and swim together, regardless of religion, social background or other factors. In total, I am sure that the government's actions are important and right on the way to getting a better swim education that will make more and more children and young people swim.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5215	It is important that all children learn to swim, and there is a need to strengthen the teaching of swimming. There is a broad consensus on both political and professional environments. But so far we don't have the power to make words into action. Many municipalities and schools are deprioritising swimming training, and there may be many reasons for this. It is about access to swimming facilities, it is about access to qualified teachers, and it is about the fact that swimming training can be relatively resource-intensive. Every other teenager can't swim well enough. A supervision carried out at 19 schools in 9 different municipalities in 2013 revealed that many municipalities have too poor quality of swimming training. One of the problems is that those who teach swimming are not good enough in swimming, diving and lifesaving. Another problem is that many municipalities lack a system to assess whether the requirement for adequate swimming training has been met. Of the nine municipalities that were subject to supervision, only one municipality had such a system in place. It is too bad, and it is the responsibility of the school owners, i.e. the municipalities, to ensure that the requirements of the Training Act and the regulations of the law are met. We cannot accept that swimming training is a priority. It's important that children learn to swim, and it's about several things. It's about public health. Being able to swim and move safely in water is a good form of exercise and exercise. It's about well-being and life-exploitation. Water play and activity is an important part of the everyday life of many in Norway, perhaps especially along the coast, and perhaps especially in the summer months. This is the joy in which the children who cannot swim do not have the opportunity to participate. Then it's finally about saving lives. There are too many people who die as a result of drowning in Norway. Training children in swimming is an important prevention measure to avoid this. We have not managed to make words into action, but now we finally got a little further into the work of securing all children proper swimming training. I would also like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which are the people who have now raised this important matter. When the Christian People's Party two years ago, in 2013, proposed to introduce a national skill test in swimming, only the Christian People's Party's representatives voted in favour. Everyone else voted against. But now the four cooperation parties have agreed that such a proposal should be sent to the hearing, and the whole committee supports it. I would therefore also like to commend the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left for having changed their view on this issue, and that they have now agreed to what the Christian People's Party has been working for too long. By introducing a national swimming test, we raise the threshold to deprioritise swimming instruction. I believe that we should also impose a requirement that swimming training cannot be completed until all the students who have the prerequisites for it have learned to swim. In this way, we put an increased pressure on the municipalities, so that they will have to follow the responsibility they already have today to provide students with good training in swimming. There is also a broad consensus that we need an action plan for enhanced swimming training. The four cooperation parties have also agreed on this, and there is a unanimous comitology on this in the vote. And then there are many good actions already going on: funds for swimming training in kindergarten – it has been a good and important input from the Left – money for swimming training for minority speakers, as well as a process for revising the curriculum in the physical training profession in order to specify the competence requirements to be met in swimming training. It is essential that children are actually able to swim, and not just stay liquid in the water or swim eight to ten meters. These are good measures. When the representative Sønsterud quoted from the committee comment, she stopped a little early. She dropped this by getting a skill test and getting a proposal on this sent to the hearing. This is an important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party. And then she asks the question, Does the Christian People's Party really want an action plan? The answer is yes. Will we now have an action plan? The answer is yes. Are we satisfied with that? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5234	Being able to swim is vital, not only to save his own life by accident, but also to save others. In addition, it gives you the ability to swim for better public health. I think it's great that there's a great cross-political consensus that swimming is vital. The Committee also strongly agrees on how we want schools to help young people learn to swim. In addition, we expect parents' seas to help teach their kids how to swim, and we'll bet that it's going to be a good and warm summer this year as well. According to the 2011 military session figures, the proportion of non-swimming protected persons in Norway is more than double in 10 years – from 6 pst. in 2001 to 15 p.m. in 2011. In 2012, the worst was done in Telemark, with Uppland in second place. Figures from the Telemark County in 2012 showed that one in three 18-year-olds could not swim 200 meters. Figures from Norway's Swim Federation show that about half of the country's 10-year-olds are unable to swim. Unfortunately, this is again reflected in the statistics on drowning accidents, which have doubled in recent years. Norway is well above its neighbouring countries in the case of drowning deaths. There are many causes of drowning accidents – as mentioned earlier – but being able to swim is at least one insurance to avoid drowning. It's unacceptable that we can't teach our kids how to swim. Yes, it's important to learn how to read and calculate, but in a coastal country like ours, it's literally vital to be able to swim. The knowledge lift requires the ability to swim after 4th, 7th and 10th steps. Everyone shall be safe in the water and have the ability to swim is the measure after step 4. However, the figures show that these objectives are not being achieved. As has been said before, there is a difference between learning technical swimmers' roofs and being a functional swimmer that can master saving its seas if a situation should arise. I want to add a little bit of discretion. I actually had an exam in habit of going to school, and it made an indelible impression on me. I hope I can still help to familiarize students with the trip, so if anyone needs help, you can contact them. For us in the Center Party, it's a prerequisite that the training must not be completed until students who have prerequisites for it can actually swim. If it takes longer, longer time is also needed to achieve the targets. It is important that municipalities can prioritize the repair of swimming facilities or build new ones, so that we can achieve our goal and not ‘accept’ the high number of drowning accidents that we have witnessed in recent years. Therefore, the Centre Party is concerned that the experience of the interest-rate compensation scheme must be followed up, so that swimming facilities are also realised in line with needs. The proposal for better swimming lessons has been discussed and promoted also when we discussed one hour of physical activity in school. The Left has promoted an interpellation in the UK, and the Christian People's Party, in its proposals for representatives, has proposed a national test of skills to the Health and Care Committee. So in addition, it's the proposals of the Center Party and the Workers' Party. All these proposals have led the government this year to request the Education Directorate to consult proposals to adjust the syllabus of exercise in terms of swimming. The hearing ended in March. It refers to both the purpose and the objectives of competence. That's good. This shows that opposition and position can work together for the benefit of students, although unfortunately it may take some time. The people behind the speech of the numbers are the reason why in June last year the Center Party presented its proposals to make sure that more people learn to swim. The Labour Party did the same thing, and we have cooperated so that the proposals would receive the widest possible support. The minority, consisting of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, today proposes that: ask the government to clarify the curriculum objective of swimming skills in line with the technical advice requested by the government to draw up a national action plan so that the training is carried out with good quality, so that when the curriculum objectives requested by the government ensure that the school owners cannot complete the swimming training until all those who have the prerequisites for it, when the objectives of the teacher plan – I hope, of course, that the representative Tyvand votes in favour of the government to set up state guarantee schemes and interest compensation schemes for school buildings and swimming facilities, so that rehabilitation and new construction of swimming facilities can also be prioritised in the municipalities; I expect all the parties to join item 1, since the government has sent out a hearing note on this. I also count on the support of paragraph 2, since all parties in the committee comment say that an action plan is needed. We also believe that it is important that training is not completed until swimming standards are met. We also hope that the government parties and the supporting parties will support the proposal to look at the interest-rate compensation scheme, so that swimming facilities become a priority in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5277	There is an alarming development in swimming skills, both among the elephants and in the general population, which many have experienced. Just to illustrate that Norway is a coastal nation: today we have had business in the hall dealing with sharks, swimming, life jackets and aquaculture. Half of all the things we are dealing with today are about the sea in one way or another. So in a country like Norway, which is mostly coastal, it's absolutely crucial that people learn to swim, both so that one can feel safe in water, that one can play in water, and that one can survive. It's generally important to learn to swim. Lifesaving, which we are in the setting, is crucial, and being able to help others in water – i.e. swimming in critical situations – is also crucial to learning children and young people. When it comes to swimming for those who come from families where it is not common to be able to swim – we see it especially in minority harnesses – there is a risk that a person will not learn to swim if parents cannot swim very much. So we need special measures directed at them. Getting proper, targeted curricula, where it's clear what kind of skills people need, is very important. But we have to be careful to make these curriculums so that we remove the basis for people learning how to swim, because as the dive expert and representative of the Center Party, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, can certainly confirm, it's playing decisively to learn how to swim. We have to make sure that we don't set up this race in such a way that we go to work with clear goals, where one is going to be tested and tried to learn how to swim, because then we might make it survive in water for a bigger problem, and that there's something scary about it. Every child likes to bathe – it also has to be the starting point for giving all the opportunity to do it. But if one is to learn to swim, one must have a bath system. What has been pointed out in the option is the interest compensation scheme, which largely bombs swimming facilities. It's a system that's often used for schools. It's one side of it, and it should look at it. I encourage all the parties to at least go inside and look at that system, so that she can also hit swimming facilities. The second is the general municipal economy. With poorer municipal economy, there is also the possibility to operate a bath system with a balance. If this is a single reason for shutting down swimming pools, it is bad operation – and bad operation is one of the first things that happens when the municipal budget is aged. Then I would like to make a note of SV's proposal in our alternative state budget, where we propose a strengthening of the local economy in general by 3.7 billion. kr more than the government. I fear that the weak local economy to which the government puts forward could, in reality, also lead to poorer swimming facilities for training. This one must also look at in the strategy we have. So I just wanted to encourage those parties that until now have been actively involved in swimming – the Christian People's Party and the Left – to get involved now when we've seen what the hearing has given, and support the suggestions of the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5294	It creates a violent commitment, swimming. The consultation round held by the Education Directorate, which ended on 13 March, on enhanced objectives of competence in swimming lessons, has received some 400 hearings. In comparison, there were half as many when the entire syllabus was revised in 2012. There's something about the engagement around swimming that's huge, I think it has something to do with two things. One thing, of course, as many have said, is that it is about life and death in the worst case. The second is enough that for a coastal country like Norway, being on the water, near the water, could have fun in the water perceived as a very important part of a good Norwegian summer day and a good everyday life. We've taken important steps in the right direction. I believe that it is essential that we go from a situation where we have had a gradual deterioration, such as that. The numbers from the initial service or session can illustrate, that we get a gradual improvement, take steps and step all the way in the right direction. A first and important step is that we have a common understanding of what it means to be able to swim, that is, clearer curriculum objectives. We sent a proposal, shortly after New Year's, to adjust the objectives of competence for swimming in the curriculum of the physical exercise profession. The definition recommended in the letter of consultation is as follows: ‘The aim of the training is for the student to be able to roll into deep water, swim 100 metres on the stomach, and pick up an object from the bottom with his hands, stop and hibernate. [[floating on the stomach, orienting, rolling over, floating on the back, collecting for 3 minutes]] This is in line with recommendations from the Norwegian Swim Federation. I appreciate the great commitment that is on the Storting for the matter, but I also think it is important to emphasise that for many years there has been a great commitment and a great voluntary effort by organisations such as the Netherlands. Norway's Swim Federation, and others. Such a concrete objective of competence clearly leads to what students should master after completion of swimming training. The majority of the Committee also considers that self-storage in cold and uneasy water must be part of the curriculum. In the hearing, the aim of competence is to address this issue, which reads: ‘practice safe movement and carry out safety assessments in, through and on water under varying weather conditions’. I believe that this will contribute to fulfilling what the Committee has pointed out. The hearing period was, as I said, 13 March 2015. There has been a great deal of interest, as I have already mentioned, and the revised curriculum will be used from the next school year. Of course, we will provide good information for schools, so that the swim lessons from the fall are adapted to the new requirements. In addition, the government will submit to the hearing a proposal to impose requirements on all municipalities to conduct a skill test in swimming in primary school. The skill test must, of course, be linked to the new competence objective so that it can be carried out as part of the regular swimming training. Strengthened skills objectives and a national skill test are important measures that the government can implement. But it's the municipalities that have to give priority to filling the water in the pools and keeping the halls open. And as others have stressed here – the teaching of swimming is not optional, you cannot choose it away. Many municipalities need a handshake to get this done. The Ministry of Knowledge may not oblige municipalities to rehabilitate or build new swimming pools, but the State has an interest compensation scheme for school and swimming facilities. It started under the previous government, has been continued by the current government and strengthened by phased into the budget of the year, making more funds available to municipalities this year. It is also important that all students receive good and adapted training. This means that we need targeted measures for those students who have not been admitted to swimming training. That is why the Ministry of Knowledge has granted 7 million. for swimming training for newly arrived minority language children, young people and adults covered by primary school training. The goal is to bring down the accidents, and we're going to evaluate, together with other actors, how we're going to use this in the best possible way. Together with the cooperation parties, we'll also bet 10 million. kr for swimming training in kindergarten that will go to pilot projects to help children become safe in water early. It's an important contribution. As I said, the government and the cooperation parties, with the support of the Stortinget, have taken several important steps in the right direction in swimming training. The measures that I have now outlined will include: is part of an action plan to ensure children’s and young people’s swimming skills, which I will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5332	I am a little confused, because in this case we have received a letter from the Council of State concerning this with an action plan. There he considers that an action plan is not necessary, because he believes that revising the skills objectives of the physical exercise as well as the interest-rate compensation scheme and swimming training for newly arrived students are sufficient to ensure the swimming skills of Norwegian children. The Committee's position states that all parties support the action plan, but there is no one, except the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, who is promoting the proposal and who has said that they will support it. What's really going on? Does it mean that an action plan should be promoted, or does it not mean that? And if you mean it, why on earth are you voting against it today in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5339	What is happening is, of course, quite normal parliamentaryism, that parties in the Grand Duchy are joining forces and agreeing on things. And the answer to whether or not there will be an action plan is: Yes, there will be an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5344	I still find it somewhat strange. The Prime Minister has said that the government parties will at any time vote for what they are in favour of. But today they're going to vote against what they really are for. I find it strange. But I have another question. In the vote there is also a unanimous committee which has asked the government to consult a proposal to impose requirements on all municipalities to conduct a national test of proficiency in primary school swimming, and to come to the Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate manner. I would like to stress that this is also a unanimous comment by the Committee. My question is, how will the Council of State follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5353	As I said in my post, we're going to send a proposal on that at the hearing. Then we have to hear different aspects of it to see how it can be arranged in the best possible way, and then I'm set to follow up that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5358	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5363	I would like to comment on the post by the representative Sønsterud, who was largely directed towards the Left. I have a slightly different approach in this matter than what I feel the representative of the Workers' Party has. I think this is a fundamental positive case. I think it's positive when the Left's representative, Abid Q. Raja, raises the matter as an interpellation. I also welcome the fact that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre are promoting two motions for resolutions Nos 8 concerning this very important issue. Otherwise, I think it's good that the bulk of the population is now moving. It's always like someone wanted you to move further and faster. But we see that there are concrete things coming – we take concrete steps to make children and young people more swimmers. I think that's very good. I feel that the representative also asks if there is an action plan. Now we've heard all the parties' posts, we've heard the council itself, and I don't think there can be any doubt anymore that there's going to be an action plan. There is a broad consensus in the Storting on that, and in fact, I think it is quite positive that it is not just a majority comment, but that it is actually an entire committee that supports a desire for such an action plan. In addition, a proposal for a skill test to strengthen education and make children and young people more swimmers will be sent to the hearing. Then there will be a revision of the curriculum with the same goal. Otherwise it will be referred to an interpellation that the representative Abid Q. Raja had earlier. He has a great commitment to this matter and has had it for a long time. I am absolutely sure that the Storting will also enjoy his commitment to the matter in the future. One of the things that he's been busy about, and for which he's also had an impact, is just this 10 million. kr, which was also mentioned by the Council of State in its contribution, to a grant scheme for kindergartens to teach children to swim as early as possible. So I really feel that today we have a good case for treatment. I feel that we have a wide majority, we have a total population that wants to make children and young people in Norway more swimmers and reduce the number of drowning accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5383	We're going to enjoy what we're agreed on, and I note that the Council of State says clearly that a clearer learning goal for swimming is to be defined. He also says that an action plan should be drawn up, and we are happy to take that with us. He also specified that the interest-rate compensation scheme should be followed up for swimming facilities. What remains is really the core proposal in what we are discussing, namely the proposal that municipalities should continue to teach swimming until the aim of competence is achieved. It is, of course, quite strange that parties who usually talk about knowledge in school, that we need to have a knowledge focus, we need to raise knowledge, we need to have clearer learning, and we need to get better results, we need a majority who say that the municipalities should continue teaching in swimming until the goal of competence is achieved for all those who require it. I think it would be a very nice opportunity to say that here, in this area, we're going to achieve the learning goal that the school has set. It's a very clear goal, and as the Council of State said, it's a vital goal to have. The question of especially the Right then becomes: is it such that the knowledge content of the school is reserved for math, Norwegian and English, or is it such that the knowledge goal of the school relates to this subject, which one can actually die of by not being able to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5390	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5405	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5412	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation. This is a strange matter on a very important topic. The Committee stands together to say that bullying is a serious social problem. It's totally unacceptable that thousands of children and young people have to grunt every week to go to school. It affects the quality of life of young people. It's beyond your safety, and it also affects your learning. It is difficult to concentrate on school when you have more than enough to survive in everyday life. The student survey shows that perhaps as many as 40,000 children each week are afraid to go to school and are subjected to bullying. It's totally unacceptable, and we know enough to end this. The joy was therefore great as one could read in the newspapers last summer that the council would now act and send to Stortinget a bill that strengthened the legal protection of the mob victims. For example: a notice from the NTB on 11 June read something the Council of State said: ‘In the government platform, we establish that it is the bully who has to switch schools to bullying cases where school exchanges are the only solution. There have been some uncertainties and different practices in relation to whether and how the bully can be moved in such cases’. So here the law and the law were to be tightened up. The bullies were supposed to be stronger. The surprise was great when we got a bill proposal with two changes in the laws, where it is quite specific to both changes in the law that these changes do not change the legal state. We have tried to see if it has ever been sent a bill from a government where the entire bill does not change the legal status, and we have good reason to find it. We have found examples that in connection with other legal work one also clears up linguistic ambiguity, perhaps the order of paragraphs and such things, but that an entire bill is sent to the Stortinget without changing the law, is a new Norwegian record. It is said from the state council that this is because it has been unclear whether it has been possible to move on the bully instead of the bullying victim. On questions about what enquiries the Council of State has received about this during the whole of 2014, we were told that it was a matter of a handful of enquiries. We have been sent the enquiries, and it turns out that there are no schools or principals that have at all been in doubt that the law was ready. However, an overall committee will support these changes in order not to raise the opposite doubt, namely that we should be against the fact that the legal status should continue to be as it was before the Council of State sent a legislative amendment to the Stortingen, so that we do not create any new confusion. But I must say very seriously that bullying is an area that is better suited for action and action than political marketing without content. It is okay to stand in the VG and say that now you should lock the door at the school for those who are late, even though schools have practised it long before the Council of State became the Council of State. It is okay to stand in the VG and say that the schools should be given the opportunity to confiscate mobile phones and computer equipment, if it is misused, even though most schools have had this in their legislation long before the Council of State became the Council of State. It's okay to say that you have to take 4 in math to get into the teacher's education, even though you're actually reducing the requirement to 2, given that you're taking a math course to get in. In a sense, there are not questions that go to the core of school security. However, making difficult headlines to change the law and strengthen the legal certainty of the bullying victims, who are plagued every day, and then making a legislative amendment that does not strengthen the legal certainty of the bullying victim 1 mm, is leading the weakest in Norway behind the light. I'm upset by it. I think it's a shame to use such an area to do nothing. It is possible to rectify this by voting in favour of the proposal to return to work that strengthens the position of the victims of bullying. It'll show up if we can get a majority for that. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5436	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5439	The fight against bullying in school brings together the Stortinget, and it also brings together the educational committee. There have been more heartbreaking stories in the last few months how brave victims of bullying have stood up and told their story, but we have also become acquainted with even more heartbreaking stories, such as the story of Odin, which did not last the bullying. Therefore, the Djupedal Committee, which has now presented its position, has also been very important. Me and the Right look forward to examining the proposals that are being promoted there. I believe that one of the proposals that will go through much of the policy that needs to be devised is that the school owners, the municipalities, and not least the schools themselves, must take a greater responsibility to combat bullying. That's why I'm very happy that this bill is being promoted by the government. It's an important clarification the government is now coming along. Just a few weeks ago, two fellow representatives of the knowledge committee and myself were at a meeting with some children who had experience of being bullied and who told about both their experiences and what they wanted from the politicians. The case rapporteur was not one of those who attended that meeting, but I can inform you that one of the messages they gave themselves was that it had to be made even more clear that it is the bully who will take the consequences if the bullying does not end, and that it is the bully who is going to switch schools. What you're doing now is clarifying something that's a big intervention for a student. If you go to the step of moving a student because of bullying that doesn't end, it's a big step towards that student as well. Therefore, clarification is also important: such an intervention should not just be in the preparation of a law, it should be clearly stated in the law. I am a little surprised that the case rapporteur turns to the rhetorical heights he has chosen to do in this case, because this is a party voting for the bill. We are used to the fact that the Workers' Party comes after and sits on the fence and follows up what is proposed, and then takes a stand when they see which way the wind blows. But here you choose to criticise a bill that you're going to vote for, and then it might be more confusing. It is the case that this has also been at the hearing, and no matter what the Workers' Party may feel in rhetoric, even if they vote differently than they say, that of the 70 hearing replies that have been received, only eight are critical. 49 of them are for, including 24 municipalities. It shows that even if the Labour Party disagrees in the big debate, those who work on this every day – the school owners, the anti- bullying agencies – say that this is an important clarification. I also believe that it is important that we from Stortinget choose to do this. The case rapporteur and the Labour Party make it a point that the Ministry of Knowledge has not received so many enquiries about this problem. The Ministry of Knowledge and the Directorate of Education are not the addressees of these enquiries. If you read e.g. The suspension of the Djupedal Committee, they just raised the issue because the County is the recipient of the complaints. And the Djupedal Committee itself asks the question whether the County Council is right, or whether it is the Children's Ombudsman who should be the Board of Appeal. I'm not going to conclude on that, but it's a discussion based on who actually receives the enquiries, which is also the answer from the Department of Knowledge itself. This is an important clarification that I am pleased to receive unanimous support in the Stortinget. That means that all parties, including the Workers' Party, intend to vote in favour, even if the case-rapporteur calls it an inconsequential change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5456	"It doesn't help to say from now on, they don't do anything from now on," said the 13-year-old Odin. Now it's one year since he took his life. He took his life because he was bullied, and no one did anything. I can't tell you how tragic I think this is. Kids shouldn't experience that, and we as a society shouldn't tolerate bullying. The progressing party believes that bullying and unfine behaviour are something that must be continuously focused on and addressed. Bullying and unfine behaviour shall not be tolerated in school. This case is about clarifying in the Education Act and the Private School Act that a student like a bully can be moved to another school. Today, this is only apparent in the pre-workers and is not explicitly stated in the Education Act or the Private School Act. For the Progress Party, it is important to listen to professional environments and not least the students directly affected. A large majority of the hearing bodies are to make it clear that the bully is going to change schools. Of the 70 respondents, only eight do not support the proposal for clarification. Among those who support, there are 24 municipalities, and the municipalities are school owners who are actually responsible for enforcing the legislation. School owners point out that clarification is important because it helps to clarify the legislation. The relocation of students is, after all, a very radical measure. The student organisation in Norway refers in its consultation response to its Governing Council meeting, where the following requirements were adopted: ‘The student organisation requires that in bullying cases where relocating is appropriate, bullies are moved and not offended.’ At least there is no doubt about what the Student Organisation means. The Progress Party has registered the majority’s comment that they find it striking that the government is choosing to promote this bill now, before the Djupedal Committee has delivered its position on bullying. I must say that I am totally incomprehensible about the criticism contained in the remark. The party of progress looks the other way around. The fight against bullying has been going on for years, and yet thousands of students still experience being bullied and harassed. The Progress Party believes that the fight against bullying and harassment must take place every day, and therefore it is important that the Storting focuses on this. The fact that this matter has been at the hearing has put bullying on the agenda of many local governments and other elected bodies, and that is far greater than what the proposal involves. It shows that it is in stark contrast to what the rapporteur has in mind in this matter. The fight against bullying is important and must be pursued in several debates. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal, even though criticisms are raised about the present state of the matter. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Djupedal Committee, which last week presented a thorough investigation containing many good proposals. Like Odin, unfortunately, many students and parents report bullying and harassment, which is not heard by the school management. It's not going to go on like that. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the sample proposes concrete sanctions against municipalities and schools that do not actively address the problems. The Progress Party has high expectations that the government will assess and follow-up recommendations made by the sample as soon as possible, and will put in place concrete measures to reduce bullying and harassment in school. The Progress Party believes that the legislative change and the report of the Djupedal Committee are good tools in the ongoing fight against bullying, in which it is our responsibility to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5487	We all agree that bullying in school is a major and serious social problem. It's about the violation of human dignity, and we must never give up the fight against bullying. I want to give praise to all those who have helped put the fight against bullying on the agenda in the last year, both politically and through the media. Cheerful youths and brave parents have told their stories about how they have experienced the bullying. The King has contributed in his own way and raised the subject in his New Year's speech, as has the Prime Minister, and I think that's great. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to give commendation to all the teachers who each day do a very good job so that our children feel safe and feel good when they are at school. There are also a lot of school leaders who are doing a good job. And then we hear from time to time stories about school leaders and school owners who don't take responsibility, and that's obviously not acceptable. A lot can be done through prevention, but sometimes situations arise that are fixed and that are difficult to find. Sometimes it goes so far that moving one or more students over to another school is considered the only option. It has often been the bullying victim who has to change school. This may not always happen at school's initiative, but often because the student and the parents give up and need a new start. The government has stated in its government statement that it is the bully to be moved in such locked cases, and it can in many ways be reasonable. It seems unreasonable that it is the one who has been bullied, who must also take the burden of changing school. But it's already possible to move it or those who bully, to another school. This is not explicitly stated in the Education Act or the Private School Act, but it is apparent from the preparatory work of the laws. For the majority of the Committee, it is important to stress that this is an instrument to be used only in exceptional cases after other measures have been tried. So it might still be that some students who have experienced bullying and getting into locked-up situations will feel the need for a new start and even want to switch schools because there are so many negative feelings associated with the school they've gone to. But of course, we have to do our utmost to ensure that no one will experience such a situation in the future. The proposal in the bill implies that access to move students as bullies is explicitly written in the legal text to clarify the current law. I must admit, too, that I think it is a little strange that the government chose to promote such a proposal now, shortly before the government-appointed Djupedal Committee should present its report – and now, while we are debating this, the report of the Djupedal Committee is on the table, and it is a toolbox full of proposals for measures that can help to combat bullying. I think it would have been natural to take this matter in the context of a major debate on measures against bullying, but the government has therefore chosen to take this matter already now, and to me it is in itself little problematic. I have no problem supporting the government's proposal. It'll have little practical significance. There is a clarification of the current right, and there may be a reasonable clarification of the current right. At the same time, I would like to say that I expect – and I assume – that the government will take up the Djupedal Committee's report and follow it up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5502	I just brought with me a little sheet of paper, because I didn't intend to help pull the debate out very much. I just want to say that the Central Party supports that proposal, to state in law that it should be possible to move it as a bully, and there are several people who have brought it up here now. I'm just going to attach a few words to it with bullying. Bullying is a very serious social problem. It is serious at school, but it is also serious online, both for adults and for children, and it is serious at work. Moving a bully should be the last resort, and I thought as I put it here, that when one has come so far that one starts discussing it as bullying or not, then one has actually gotten quite far into the problem of bullying. For what may be the biggest challenge is, as has been mentioned here before, that someone dares to say from scratch at all, that the teacher at all discovers it, that the mother and the father discover it. It's really hard if the kid's seas don't say anything, and then we don't discuss moving bullies. Then it's also incredibly important, I think, that one goes to the cause of the bullying. It doesn't have to be the bully's fault, but the bully also has a big problem, and it's like something's there, which I also think it's very important that we take with us. Because it's not like kids are born bullying, but it's like something's behind it. As the representative said, I hope – and I expect and expect – that we will have the opportunity to come back and have a slightly more thorough and a little deeper debate when the government has processed the Djupedal Committee report and come back to Stortinget with it, so we can discuss that issue. Because I think it's important that we see the entire width, both the one bullying – why are you bullying? – and whoever gets bullied, and what we can do to avoid getting that kind of situation at school. So I just want to say, on behalf of the Center Party, that we are in favour of this proposition, as it is now. Then we hope that we come back and get a good debate later that discuss bullying on a slightly wider front.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5513	We all agree that bullying in school should not occur, because we all want students to have a good physical and psychosocial learning environment. Nevertheless, as the representative Asheim said, more people experienced bullying, and someone in the committee met with several kids who had experienced bullying. It gives us an idea of how they want children and young people to have it at school, and how they don't want it to be. And those are pretty strong stories they have to come with, those who have experienced bullying in everyday life. The Djupedal Committee has now presented its report with many proposals for action. We look forward to the Council of State now starting to work on that report, and expect that there will be a reinforced effort against bullying in the time to come. I am sure that many of the measures proposed are things that the Council of State can take on and implement on its own, but we also address issues to the Stortinget where it is necessary and appropriate, because we all have a desire for students to have a bully-free everyday life. With regard to this specific case, there is nothing new in that schools can choose to move the bully instead of the bullying victim, but I think it may be a point that it is included in the law, both to clarify the possibility and to strengthen the legal certainty of those involved. But as the representative Tingelstad Wøien was in, it is moving a student like bullying, to another school, a drastic tool, which should only be used in special cases, and after other measures have been tried first. That's why it's important that we still focus on bullying, so that we don't get so far that some people have to switch schools, because we've actually come way too far when we're there to assess it. That's why I'm concerned that the possibility of schooling doesn't have to be a sleeping cushion. It doesn't have to be the action we take to show action, because when the situation gets so far that one has to change school, we're in a situation that's not good for the one who's being bullied, but also not good for the one who's bullying. We are behind the proposed amendment to the law, but we assume and expect, as I said, that the state council will follow up the bullying problem in the coming time, and that moving the bully will be part of an overall assessment to be made in the wake of the report submitted by the Djupedal Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5524	Bullying's a legacy. It's contagious. Bullying occurs among the smallest and among the oldest. It is a major social problem, which it is important to address as early as possible – from kindergarten up and down. The Djupedal selection has just been submitted. It was exciting suggestions that came out there. It deals with a lot of government bet on an inclusive school, according to a model from Canada, which is interesting reading, moving the Board of Appeal from County to Barneombode, getting more groups into the school, so that one can work wider – the school and PP services are very special. In general, more research and knowledge about both bullying and bullying in the school is crucial. These questions are not relevant. This is just a pure clarification of the preprocessing of the law, that's what's current right here. This is a matter that really doesn't change much. Some of these suggestions we've already received from the department, and I hope we can get a break from proposals that don't mean any change, so we have real things we can work with here. Bullying is a matter area where everyone is a few. There's nothing that makes us as black as the idea that own children or children of someone we know become bullies, or stories about children who have become bullies, and who have been driven into terrible acts. Bullying lasts a lifetime -- it's something people ask for a long time. Having proper, large and targeted actions that work, and not just programs that may work somewhat, is very important. I'm looking forward to getting the Djupedal selection on the table as soon as possible. SV is going to support the clarification of the law as it is, when we're going to vote. But I hope we can take a break from suggestions that don't tell you so much new.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5537	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses this proposal. I think it's an important signal. Let me link some comments to that. I believe that we cannot just approach this legally. We also have to think about what the law signals. It is true, as the ministry also writes, and as the committee has more than clearly perceived, that today a student as a bully can, in some cases, be moved to a school other than that of the student. So it's not explicitly stated in the Education Act or the Private School Act, but it's shown by the law's pre-worker. The preparatory work of the law can in general be NOUs, consultation drafts, deposit proposals from the Ministry, submission by the trade committee and negotiations on the Stortinget. The provision is also general. It is not a targeted provision that you can move – bullying is not mentioned – it is a general provision. Then the question is: is bullying such a serious problem that it is also worth getting explicit into the law by clarifying and clarifying that in these cases it can be moved to another school as a bully? I mean, yes. So it's true that this doesn't change the legal situation, but then it's important to distinguish what's legal and what's practice. So the legal situation is what you have the opportunity to do based on the preliminary work of the law. What is practice in the sector is quite another. What can this do? Well, it can give you a clearer law because it says it's black on white in the legal text, not in the preparatory work. It is an important signal and, not least, it can also change practices in the sector, make it more widely used. I think that's an important reason to do that, even though there can't be any easy way to solve the bullying challenges. We fully agree with those who say that moving a student must be the last resort to bullying. In fact, I also agree that if you first get there that someone has to change school, our entire anti- bullying work has actually failed. What is essential to prevent abuse and bullying is systematic long-term work; it's adult intervention; school has systems in place to detect bullying; and it's strengthening children's legal certainty. All of that has given the Djupedal Committee a very good basis for discussion. The Government follows up by sending the proposal immediately to the hearing. We have also said that we will come back to Stortinget with the relevant proposals that concern, for example. legislative changes. If a case becomes particularly complex and challenging and the school has tried every possible action, the move of bullies can be the last resort. As a principle, I believe that there are too many people who say that they have felt pressured to change school because they have been bullied. Then it's hard to make a rule of law that prevents any abuse, or any lack of judgment on the school locally. But it is therefore possible to clarify the law so that practices can be changed. By writing it explicitly into the law, we're actually doing it. And then there's another reason that might be a little bit more legal, but that might also be worth considering. It has a slightly different starting point, and it's that it's serious if you're told to switch schools. Having a clear legal framework because moving a student is an intrusive measure is also an argument for. Then I think that the consultation round is crucial, simply because if there had been a massive majority in the consultation round that said this was not necessary, we knew this from before, we don't need this in everyday life, I would have had serious concerns about this proposal. But of the 70 hearings, there are 8 that are explicitly negative, 49 that support the government's proposal for clarification. Among those who support it, there are 24 municipalities. Several of these write that clarification is important because it helps to clarify the legislation and that clarification can help ensure the individual student’s right to a good psychosocial environment. There is no guarantee of that, there is no easy solution, but that it is not a clear signal, and that it is not worth doing, I cannot understand. I am very pleased that the whole committee agrees with that consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5555	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5558	It is not surprising that there is a broad consensus that the law should describe the legal status that applies. It would be surprising if in the consultation round there was massive resistance to the legal situation with which the schools have lived for a long time. So this is a very strange reasoning. The main problem here is that this would have been quite fine if it had been part of a larger package that was to strengthen the legal situation of the bullying victims, and that met with measures to counter bullying, but the truth is that this is the only proposal the government council has sent to the Stortinget that deals with bullying. It doesn't change the legal state of one millimeter. There's no big doubt about how this is, out there among the principals and teachers. On the contrary, the Education Association says that this is quite clear. The question is, why is this the only government council that has sent to Stortinget to strengthen the fight against bullying? And isn't action more important than talking to help those who are hit by bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5567	Firstly, I fully agree that action is more important. The cooperation parties have also strengthened the fight against bullying in the budgets. It is absolutely right that we have been waiting for the Djupedal committee, which the previous government reduced. I have asked them to speed up, and therefore they put forward the investigation now, and not later. So I'm going to be completely honest and say that the reason why I thought this could be done now is that I couldn't imagine in my wildest imagination that this should be something that was controversial. I could not imagine in my wildest imagination that it would be controversial to get it clear and clear into the law, at least not after a hearing where 49 out of 70 authorities said they thought this was an important clarification. And the rationale, among other things, in the municipalities is not that we can just as well do this, because that's the law. They say that this is an important clarification because it can lead to a change in practice also in the field. I think that's an argument enough to do it – not exaggerate the meaning of it, but that's an argument to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5576	What is controversial is not the content of the proposal. What's controversial is that the only proposal of the Council of State to the Storting to strengthen the work against bullying is nothing, that is, to change the law so that it doesn't change the legal state, that's what's controversial. It's a very small suitable area to run with political emptiness when 40,000 children each week are afraid to go to school. The Djupedal Committee's investigation came, and I would like to ask the Council of State quite specifically: where in the Djupedal Committee's investigation is the instrument to move the bully? It's not there. It is only mentioned in the Rules of Procedure and the legal basis around it. The Djupedal Committee believes that this is one of the least important measures to combat bullying that exists, but it is therefore the only measure that the Council of State has sent to the Stortinge, a measure that does not even change the law. How does the Council of State explain that the Djupedal Committee does not take this as an important measure, but that this is the only measure he has sent to the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5583	I don't want to make too much political argument about this. But I think you have to decide what the criticism is. You can't both criticise me for pre-empting the Djupedal committee and send a proposal to the hearing and at the same time criticise me for not sending any more proposals to the hearing because I've been waiting for a sample that was appointed by the Red-Greens, and that was going to go through the whole of the bullying policy. I believe that the reason is clear and clear. I believe that this should be uncontroversial, and so should it. If you read the votes of the Stortinget, it is a majority – yes, not just a majority, all in the Committee were in favour of this. If you look at what we're going to do in the future, there's a lot to do, but then it's also reasonable to wait for the Djupedal committee, which I also see that the majority in the committee obviously thinks it is. I think that makes sense too. But sending what should initially be an uncontroversial law formulation that can give an important signal to the Storting, that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5588	Let me just explain very briefly: the controversy in this is not in the bill itself. The content is fine, because it describes the legal state of the day. The controversy is that the Council of State is rushing into the media and saying that he is now going to improve the state of Norwegian school when it comes to bullying, with a contentless proposal. It is also alarming that the Council of State says that he had to wait for the selection setting for all other proposals, but an ineffective proposal he could send! For almost two years he has been a state councillor and had to wait for a red-green reduced sample. There are many things that we know work against bullying that it is quite possible to take the initiative even if you wait for a sample work. It is alarming that the only measure that has been lifted is a measure that the Djupedal Committee does not at all describe as an effective measure. And again, how does he explain that the Djupedal Committee does not have this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5593	The Djupedal committee must answer for it. After all, the cooperation parties have strengthened the anti- bullying work in the budget. Then you can go back if you're interested, and compare the budgets of the cooperation parties in this area with those of other parties. There's a bit of a laziness about the reasoning. Here the bill is charged with not doing anything, and at least not sending a signal, i.e. being a bill that does nothing. At the same time, the reason for the representative, Mr Giske, is that voting against a proposal that does nothing will send a very strong signal, and that is why we must vote in favour of it! It's not related. If the representative Giske believes that this is a proposal that is worth voting for because it sends an important signal, because it is important to clarify the law, he must stand for it, and then he must also stop criticising it from a completely different point of view or position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5600	The councils can read. It stands in the position that we are voting in favour of the proposal to avoid creating any doubt that today's legal situation has support in Stortinget – finish that matter. The problem is that the Council of State has promised this – and not only he has promised it, but the government statement has promised it – as a major and important measure against bullying. The Djupedal Committee does not at all describe this as a measure that is worth counting on. And it's not the Djupedal committee that has to answer because the Council of State and the government have promised this as one of their most important measures. Why is the only measure the Council of State has sent to the United Kingdom, a legislative change that does not change the law, in an area that the Djupedal Committee does not describe as an important response to bullying? Why has the Council of State chosen it and not a number of other proposals that were on the table and were able to do something about it long before the Djupedal Committee came up with its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5607	Now I've answered both of these questions. But I think the representative Giske and I fundamentally disagree on a part of the Council of State role. I believe it has an important effect when the knowledge minister in Norway, regardless of who it is, says on television or in other media that in situations where someone has to switch schools, it should be the bully, not the bully. I believe that clarifying the legislation also has an effect. But to say that, that you can hear it as a bully, that parents can hear it, that schools can hear it, that principals can hear it, that teachers can hear it, that it has an effect. And we're going to follow up on the Djupedals. We come up with measures. We're going to follow up the efforts of the cooperation parties, but an important part of the anti- bullying work is also going to continue to be how we talk about it, what kind of signals we give, and what layer we take when the issue comes up in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5614	Yes, I think this is the core -- we deeply disagree on what lies not only in the role of the State Council but also in the political role. I think that the kids who go to school and get scared because they're being bullied, think: Still if someone with power could do something that helped my everyday life! So it sits in Norway with the most power over this area and as its only proposal sends a change in law that does not change the legal situation one millimeter, which does not strengthen the situation of the bullies one millimeter, while at the same time he could have sent a lot of other things to the Stortinget. That's the difference between the role. I'm not in doubt that the Council of State, like the whole hall, is being deeply upset by bullying, but it's also deeply outrageous that whoever sits with the most power to do something about it has zero power of action for what's going on, namely to improve the legal situation. Now we have a proposal on the table that says the government will make proposals that strengthen the legal situation. Will the State Council recommend its party traps in Stortinget to vote in favour of the specific proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5621	I'm going to do it. And there's no doubt, in any second, that we're going to follow up on the Djupedal range. It is quite natural that we have waited for the Djupedal range, but we were more impatient than the red-green ones, who had given them several months more, and asked them to deliver now. So I wonder if 49 out of 70 hearing bodies are wrong when they say that this is an important clarification. What is the representative of Giske, who is the only one who has raised himself above this proposal – or the reason for the proposal, or what is he excited about – has understood that the 49 who are positive have not understood? I wonder. When 24 municipalities say that this is an important clarification, what have they misunderstood? I'd like to hear the representative Giske explain that, but maybe we don't have time for that now, so it'll be another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5629	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5634	There'll be an opportunity to explain it. It's really quite eye-catching that heavy organizations, like, among other things. The Education Association says that it is completely unnecessary for a government council to send a bill to the hearing on which there is really full agreement and which describes the legal state of the day. They say this is completely unnecessary. It's actually almost humiliating for a government council to get the answer from the absolute largest organization in the field of school. That 49 says it's important, doesn't describe the answers to the hearing. On the contrary, you say it's okay, because it's the legal state of the day. There's no one in this room who disagrees. What you're upset about is that you have it as your only suggestion. The Council of State does not respond to why this is both stated in the Government Declaration and is the only thing he has sent, when the Djupedal Committee does not include this in the list of important measures at all – it is only described as factual information on how the Rules of Procedure are. We know what works: schoolwork, information work, attitude-making, the fact that you have programs, as the Djupedal Committee describes, that you learn the methods that exist, that you give money to send out principals and teachers to post-graduate education around this, clearly defined principles and culture in school – there are many things you could have done. For a year and a half, you've been a state councillor, so you haven't done anything in the world. What's the problem is that this is a pattern of area by area. That was the exact same thing when we talked about rules of order. It is difficult to lock the doors and hesitate to retract mobile phones and PCs, etc. The law was there. They described the legal state of the day and told us to do that. That's what you used to do in 2013, saying that now we're going to jam me with what already exists? Again, this does not help bullying victims. What helps the mob victims is action. We have a very concrete proposal for a Roman number decision here, where it is possible to say that the government will follow up the Djupedal Committee – also with an investigation into proposals that strengthen the legal certainty of the bullying victims. We hear that the government parties do not intend to vote for it, but my question goes to Anders Tyvand and to Iselin Nybø: Is it such that the Left and Christian People's Party is also here – let's say – unfree from the points of reference of the government parties that one cannot even vote for a proposal that states that now the legal situation of the mob victims is to be investigated, and that one should come back with a matter on that? We see in other committees that it is possible to have a majority for cases even if the Right Party and the Advance Party are not involved – whether it is climate law or other things that the middle parties are burning for. I think it would have been nice if Anders Tyvand and Iselin Nybø went up and said this is so important, this is going right at the heart of us, we're going to jam me on, even if we're supporting parties for the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5649	This has been a bit of a strange experience, I just have to say. Just to remind you once again: it is a unanimous committee that endorses the government's legislative proposal. I fully agree with the case rapporteur that it would be incredibly strange if any party proposed to reject this proposition, for which everyone is in favour. That is why it is also a unanimous committee that has come to the conclusion that this is a proposal to which we are in agreement. It's all right to be in opposition. It is perfectly right to oppose the government, but spending as much time and as many forces as the committee chairman here is trying to create a disagreement on a matter for which the whole committee is unanimous, becomes quite strange to me, especially given that the committee chairman says that yes, but heavy organisations such as the Education Association say that there is no need to explain this. Well, heavy organizations like the Student Organisation are making it clear that this is important. Then it is clear that you need to listen to more than one instance. When there are 49 who are in favour, and eight who are against, one can draw out the eight who are against, but the truth is that when this was at the hearing, the large majority and heavy organizations that organize, for example, gave. Norwegian school pupils, support for the proposals of the Council of State. That may well be the reason why the committee unanimously supports this. I think the Council of State is making a very good point when you get criticism for not having made more proposals, while the majority in the committee writes that they think it is strange that proposals have been made before the Djupedal Committee has put forward its position. Again, it's okay to be in opposition, but not to be in opposition to autopilot. Be in opposition and find out what you disagree with, not just be against it! Then the representative asked Giske if that was what you used to do. Among other things, it was. One of the things that I think many wanted after eight years with the red-green government, action was also in this area. So now, when you present this proposal, when you come up with the position of the Djupedal committee and you're going to put forward more proposals for the Storting, it's de facto tightening up the anti- bullying work that was done under the red-green government. I'm not saying that the red-green government was not concerned with bullying – I don't intend to go to that level – but I think it's a little special to get criticism from the committee chairman of a bill that gets the agreement of a unanimous committee, which gets the agreement of 24 municipalities, which gets the agreement of the students, and which is an action that ensures that how to deal with such a situation better is explained in the law – that it is taken out of the preliminary work and into the section. It's extremely important. That is why the consultation has also received support. That is why it also receives unanimous support in the Committee. Let's disagree where we disagree, instead of making a game of things too important for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5662	The representative Giske spent quite a lot of time telling me that there is no particular connection between this case and the Djupedal Committee's report. Nevertheless, he encourages me and the representative Nybø to vote in favour of a proposal requiring the government to follow up the report of the Djupedal Committee. On the question of the fight against bullying is something that hits us in the heart of the Christian People's Party, so the answer is definitely yes! For this reason, we have also been clear in the position – and from today’s pulpit – that we expect, and assume, that the Djupedal Committee’s report will be followed up by the government, and we have seen this to be clearly assured by the Council of State today. But to impose this, which then really applies to another and slightly larger case, in dealing with this specific specification of the law, we do not think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5669	I feel that now that the clock is approaching one, I know that discussing details at this level can be a bit demanding. What we're facing now is a proposal that's about incorporating into the law something that's been case law for a long time, while we all agree that we're not satisfied with just doing it. It is clear that the effort against bullying must be stepped up. Obviously, this might be a sleeping cushion. I feel that I also expressed the previous time I had the word in this case, and that is what we are concerned about. At the same time, I expect the government, now that they have received the report and proposals of the Djupedal Committee for action, to go through them, and to look at the measures that they can implement themselves, quickly and effectively – that they do so, that they do not spend time making more bureaucracy around it, but that they can tackle the things that can be implemented effectively and quickly. I also said in my post that I both expect and look forward to the matters that it is both appropriate and necessary for the Stortinget to deal with – that the Council of State will return to Stortinget when necessary or appropriate. I also feel that the Council of State is open to him wanting to do so. I feel that here we have a government council that takes the bullying problem seriously, that yes, this case he feels as important. I agree that it is useful to get it included in the law. At the same time, I also feel that the Council of State is clear on – and that the Left and Christian People's Party is clear on – that this cannot be a sleeping cushion. We must be offensive here. The fight against bullying will always be about focus. It will be about focusing on the individual school, it will be about focusing on the individual school owner, and it will be about focusing on the political environment. I feel that the Left has, I feel that the Christian People's Party has, and I am absolutely sure that both the Left and the Christian People's Party will push the government council forward, so that we continue and continuously focus on bullying and action against bullying in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5680	I don't think we're going to get either the Council of State or the Christian People's Party and the Left to commit themselves more to these measures. I would have liked to have discussed the whole night with Iselin Nybø and others, until tomorrow morning, if it had helped one child to become safer at school. This, I think, is one of the most important things we can deal with in this room, and it's really the first time we have the opportunity to discuss bullying widely in this big period, because we haven't had a single case before from the Council of State that has addressed the issue – and the one we have, doesn't change the world's things. I think the reason from Anders Tyvand and Iselin Nybø for not voting in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV is quite strange. Documents 8 and elsewhere have themselves promoted things that have been supported by us, similar in nature, asking for investigations, asking for intensification, asking for action. And especially here, where we have not received any measures, have not received any intensification, have not received any suggestions that change the situation, it would have been great if the bulk of the population had pushed on, as Iselin Nybø described it. It was a bit funny at the end to hear Henrik Asheim say that because you now legalize what was legal under the red-greens, and because you have got a job from a sample that was reduced by the red-greens and sent it to the hearing, the current government has intensified its work against bullying. It describes – I think, unfortunately – just where the level of ambition lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5703	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, SV 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the insertion of a member of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5712	In 1950 there were two and a half billion people on earth, almost every four persons European. Today we have fit seven billion people, but only seven pst. are more European. It tells us two things: Europe’s countries are hardly becoming more important individually than they are together – it was today’s European policy speeches – but it also tells us that if we succeed in reducing emissions globally by 40–70 pst. by 2050, all the countries of the world must contribute. This is not a circuit championship, Norway championship or European championship in setting bold goals; it is a global virtue that must be measured not in good intentions but in real results. We must succeed in Paris until the fall. The tests have been numerous. Unfortunately, the disappointments have been the same. Nor in Paris is there reason to believe that there will be an agreement that will correct the fundamental problem: that it is too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. Fortunately, more and more countries, regions and state agencies are introducing different forms of emission pricing. Contamination will be more expensive. At the same time, we are on the threshold of a paradigm shift in the power sector and in the transport sector. The prices of the sun and the wind are dramatically reduced in a short time. The prices of batteries for energy storage for power generation and electric mobility have fallen faster than anyone could predict. The investment universe is being expanded. In the United States, solar energy is now competitive with fossil alternatives in 36 countries. In South Africa, US$14 billion has been invested in solar and wind power plants in the last three and a half years alone, with a total of 4 000 MW. The green shift is in progress. We're on the threshold of a new era. Norway has technology, competence and capital to lead. There is broad consensus in the Committee that Norway must continue to give priority to work on technology development in industry. Hydro’s new pilot plant at Karmøy, which will become the world’s cleanest aluminium production plant, is a good example of what a good tool can do to trigger. The government has strengthened both Enova's Climate Technology Fund and Innovation Norway's Environmental Technology Scheme. Overall, Norway is well equipped to contribute to the development of new environmentally friendly technologies, which can both help reduce emissions and at the same time strengthen Norway’s competitiveness under green conditions. The petroleum industry in Norway will be important for a long time in the future. The world’s highest carbon prices provide good incentives to develop new solutions that reduce emissions and streamline production. At the same time, the high-level environment in the offshore industry has significant transfer value to other industries in the green shift. The government rates significantly on renewable energy production, not least through an increase in State-owned equity of 10 billion. kr and better framework conditions for wind power and small-scale power. In total, this provides the basis for more green jobs. Norway also shows roads in the transport sector. So far this year is 18 pst. of new car sales of zero-emission cars. In no other country, this proportion is close to being the same. We show that it's possible. The emission reductions from this investment are currently limited in Norway, but the contribution we make to the development of the industry and through the power of the example show that zero-emission mobility is both possible and feasible should not be underestimated. The technological paradigm shift may come faster than anyone had foreseen. At the same time, it will take time to phase it in globally. Still, there are 1.3 billion people who have no access to electricity at all. Still, it's almost 40 pst. Of the world's population who depend on cooking over open fire, not because they want to, but because there are no other alternatives. There is broad consensus in the Committee that Norway must continue its international commitment to reduce emissions in developing countries and contribute to sustainable development. The government has promised $1.6 billion. kr to the UN Green Fund for the next four years. The international forestry effort shall be continued until 2020. Originally, it was planned to last five years. The results are good and annual reductions in deforestation contribute to emission reductions corresponding to the total emissions of Norway. If we take the international forest investment into account, we're already carbon neutral today. The emphasis on renewable energy in developing countries is also of great importance. SN Power and Norfund are building renewable energy for billions in developing countries. This work also triggers significant private investment. We see, for example: that privacy Scatec Solar implements a number of projects in cooperation with Norfund. The need for energy will increase dramatically in the years to come as a result of a global emerging middle class. Unfortunately, we see that coal still dominates in very many economies. In Poland, coal-fired power stations emit 37 million tonnes of CO2 every year. All of the 10 largest emission sources in Europe are coal-fired power plants, which together emit more than four times the total emissions of Norway. For political and economic reasons, coal will remain important in many countries. It is therefore important that we succeed in developing a cost-effective technology for the clean-up and storage of CO2. Norway is working here widely to contribute to this work, and it must continue. The market is a miserable master, but it's the most efficient server we have. When you think about it green, you start a snowball that doesn't stop. At the same time, we can influence how fast the snowball is going to roll. The way we target our climate goals is important to our ability to achieve the goals we set ourselves. The Government's proposal for the 2030 climate targets is broadly endorsed by the Committee. This is very gratifying, because today's decisions set the stage for social development in Norway for a long time to come. The Government has proposed a commitment to be submitted to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change with the following elements: firstly, Norway will assume a contingent obligation of at least 40 pst. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990; secondly, Norway will engage in dialogue with the EU to enter into a joint agreement to meet climate commitments with the EU with a climate target of at least 40 pst. in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. This will provide a predictable and binding framework for further development of Norwegian climate policy. Norway is already closely integrated into the EU internal market in Europe through the EEA Agreement. 80 pst. Norway’s exports go to the EU. In the interests of Norwegian industry and industry, it is therefore reasonable that Norway should also be more closely associated with the EU in climate policy. An agreement with the EU means that there is a stronger distinction between the quota and non-quota sectors. Emissions in the ETS sector in the EEA will be reduced by 43 pst. in 2030 compared to 2005. The quota market will gradually be tightened up to ensure this. Norwegian enterprises in the quota market will have both flexibility and incentives to further develop a strong green industrial sector. It is important that Norway does not introduce a climate policy that contributes to lost industrial opportunities and carbon leakage with subsequent increased global emissions. And we're not going to do that with the government's solution. In the non-quota sector, through an agreement with the EU, Norway will be allocated an emission reduction target of between 0 and 40 pst, based on its gross domestic product per capita and the potential for cost-effective emission reductions. Therefore, there is reason to expect Norway to have a high target of implementing large emission reductions in the transport, construction and agricultural sectors. The potential is greatest in the transport sector, and the government and the cooperation parties are already in the process of implementing comprehensive and reinforced measures to reduce emissions. The target in the non-quota sector is likely to be set in 2016. After this, it will be natural to clarify how we will meet Norway's emission reduction obligations, but I assume that measures to reduce emissions will be promoted continuously in the years ahead and that the government's work already started to reinforce the measures in the climate agreement will continue. As I said, there is a broad consensus on what the government will report to the UN by the end of this month, and there is a broad consensus on what we will try to achieve in cooperation with the EU by 2030. It's very positive. Let me also give the government an honor for the way it has involved Stortinget in this matter. I think it's the first time the Storting has had such a good anchoring of our international climate commitments to the UN. It gives hope that the Storting will also contribute to a good follow-up of the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5765	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for the proper implementation of the committee procedure, through the committee procedure. It may not have been the most complicated matter to deal with either, because it was quite a good connection to the solution. The fact that the Storting joins part of the EU's climate policy framework, assuming that we have an agreement with the EU, is in many ways a good solution. But it's really a very big and important thing, an important case of principle, we're actually dealing with. This means that we are now binding on the policy for many years to come through the decision we are making, provided that we have an agreement with the EU. It's perhaps the most significant and also the most important thing in the matter, that we do it in a larger community than ourselves, and one must be clear on where one will go. The situation will then be, if we have an agreement with the EU, that we have to have a target here at home for how much we are going to reduce emissions in the sectors outside the EU ETS. To a large extent, transport and agriculture for Norway will be involved. It's speculated in what proportion this is going to be. It is not the most significant thing in the debate right now, but I am absolutely convinced that we are wise to prepare for our share to be at least about 40 pst. As I said, we have said that we think this is a good approach to one of our most important policy issues, dealing with the future and our opportunities. Historically, it follows up our tradition of having a strong anchor against Europe on these issues. Targets are important in climate policy, but they are perhaps the simplest in climate policy as well. Now, the measures and instruments that we are going to use in the future need to be strengthened, and we need to be very clear on what actions will work. We therefore assume that the government will come back to Stortinget with a plan for how to achieve the targets, through concrete actions in the course of the process. Only then will all the pieces hopefully be in place. Once again, we can invite you to conversations and say that the Workers' Party is prepared to engage in discussions with all parties, as long as we can get a broad consensus on this. We think these are important questions. It's 15 years to 2030. It's barely time. The world has a bad time. We have set ourselves goals that we are unable to achieve, and it is important that the debate is also about action in national contexts more than objectives, because if we do not succeed, the debate may become a pointless one. In this case, we have discussed whether we should go into action. The government and the support parties have chosen not to participate in the action discussions this time. I think that is a little sad and a little regrettable, because it is urgent, as I said, and it would have been good already to discuss some of the measures more in-depth and, if necessary, also by decision in the Stortinget, to say which measures one believes are right in the future. Climate policy is not to be decided in 2016, it has to be decided every day until 2030 if we are to succeed. In this case, we have proposed concrete measures and commitments that we will develop low- and zero-emission solutions in all industries up to 2050. We have said that we need to strengthen the climate technology fund in this respect, following our proposal for 100 billion. kr in 2017. It's not that we overwhelm someone, but we clearly see that more resources are needed to achieve our climate goals. We would have liked to have adopted a proposal to revitalise and strengthen the commitment to carbon capture and storage. The government parties say no despite the rapporteur's excellent mention of this in his post right now. We believe that the state must take a much greater share of the investment costs of major collective projects in the major cities, as part of binding agreements. We also say that we need to help get into the market new climate-friendly solutions in the collective system. The government parties and the supporting parties say no this time – that's what I think is bad. When we were in government, we invited broad compromises in the climate issue because we thought it was important in major matters that we had as broad agreement as possible, and that we agreed on the measures further. I hope that the track is not broken when we are going to continue the discussion that comes into the wake of this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5782	In cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right-front Party government has ever presented the most concrete climate plan through Melding. St. 13 for 2014-2015 on a new 2030 emissions obligation – a joint solution with the EU. This message, with concrete emissions targets, shows that the civil parties in cooperation have ambitious and clear plans for a future low-carbon society – not just national. This plan is also Norway's contribution to a new international climate agreement through the UN system. Norway will also engage in dialogue with the EU, with the aim of reaching an agreement on joint compliance with the climate obligation, with a climate target of at least 40 pst. emission reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. Thus, the government will actively work towards the Paris climate conference in December 2015 for an EU-wide commitment to meet the climate obligation. Norway's emissions obligation in the new climate agreement will also reflect our close relationship with the EU in many areas, now also in the climate field. There will be a clear advantage for Norwegian industry and industry on Norway’s climate policy and EU climate policy will be coordinated as far as possible to prevent carbon leakage. Nearly 80 pst. Norway’s exports go to the EU, so Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry also clearly show that there will be an advantage in coordinating Norway’s climate policy and EU climate policy, and they support such a solution. The EU has seen a target of reducing emissions by at least 40 p.p. by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. This results in a trajectory in line with the two-degree target, and Norway's objective should be at least as ambitious as the EU's. Otherwise, there is reason to point out that as the EU bases its 1990 level on the numbering of reduction targets, the achievement of the target will be significantly more demanding for Norway than for the EU. The right-wing party government will pursue an ambitious national climate policy that will contribute to the reduction of Norway’s national emissions by 2030, thus also contributing to the long-term objective of Norway becoming a low-carbon society by 2050. The Directorate-General for the Environment’s report ‘Professional basis for the further development of national and international climate policy – climate action towards 2020 and the plan for further work’ shows that there is a gap between the Storting Climate Goal and adopted climate action and an active agent of around 8 million tonnes of CO2 – a gap that has increased in its eight years of multi-annual red-green government and makes work more demanding. This government has ensured that efforts are being made to strengthen the means of action through the creation of the Green Tax Commission, the government's strategy for CO2 management, the holistic review of car charges and the national transport plan. Of the priority areas for climate policy, the following will be: reduced emissions in transport development of low-emission technologies in industry and clean production technologies CO2 management strengthening Norway's role as a renewable energy supplier and last but not least: environmentally friendly shipping Norway has technology, competence and capital to rent in the green shift. To take the last point first: LNG is within shipping an energy form that starts to shoot speed, and it will lead to large reductions in emissions. It shows that positive incentives for technology development are still important in general, including in industry. Norway also has some of the world’s leading competence environment in the planning and implementation of renewable energy projects in developing countries through SN Power and Norfund. Norway, through these companies, but also with other instruments, will contribute to the creation of new renewable energy production in developing countries, as we all know that the way out of extreme poverty is through access to energy. The Government and the Cooperation Party have decided to authorise 400 million. kr annually to the United Nations Green Climate Fund until 2018. The Green Climate Fund shall finance climate action in developing countries. The party of progress believes that the capture and storage of CO2 will be the decisive technology for achieving the global climate targets. Also for Norwegian industrial point emissions, such a technology will play an important role. There is also broad political consensus that forests should be included in a future international climate agreement. This must be done in such a way that the agreement stimulates sustainable forestry, where the forest's carbon stocks are maintained, while at the same time exploiting its potential to deliver a renewable raw material. The targets for the quota sector are clear and the ambitions for the non-quota sector are also ambitious. The future will show the level and unity of the agreement with the EU. Norway will contribute to emission reductions in the non-quota sector by setting a national emission target for the non-quota sector in line with comparable EU countries. The EU suggests that some of the cuts in the non-quota sector can be implemented by purchasing allowances in the EU ETS or by implementing climate action in other EU countries. Norway will benefit from this flexibility — in line with EU countries. All in all, this is a good, forward-looking and ambitious big message, with broad support – which emerged during the hearing – and it has led to her becoming, if possible, even better through the treatment in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5844	First, I would like to commend the previous speakers for their excellent contributions and thank the government parties and the Left for having managed to present such an important matter as this in a good way in common, and for its broad support in the Chamber. I would also like to say to the representative of Aasland from the Workers' Party that for the Christian People's Party, we are prepared to discuss actions. The problem has not been an ambitious goal – we have been good enough to set it – but it has been to come up with the measures and follow up the objectives. We're ready for that. But now this issue is primarily about the link with the EU's climate objectives. The review carried out by the Council of State to look at the gap in the challenges of greenhouse gas emissions also clearly showed that we need more action. It showed that there will be a gap of 8 million tonnes in 2020, if you continue as today. Therefore, it is absolutely vital for the Christian People's Party that it follows clear and clear commitments for the goals we set ourselves. If we compare the actual EU and Norway emission reductions over the last ten years, we can see that while Norwegian emissions have continued to increase until 2013, the EU has been reducing its emissions since 2005. Where Norway used quota purchases in developing countries to meet its Kyoto I obligations, the EU has met its commitments by about 50 p.m. only through real emission cuts from their own territory. This shows that Norwegian climate policy is now included in a framework that actually has better results for real emission reductions than the Norwegian authorities have achieved. We believe that a legally binding agreement with the EU can help us to make a greater commitment to achieving the ambitious objectives. That is why we are very pleased that the Storting is now taking this decision. An emission reduction of 40 pst. in 2030 is in line with a two-degree emission path and the recommendation of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. A 40 pst cut. is at least as ambitious for Norway as for the EU and will be more demanding for us, because, as I said, while the EU has been reducing its emissions since 1990, Norway has increased its levels. As a percentage, we therefore need to cut more from today's level than the EU needs. Norway shall take its part in the responsibility and contribute to the reduction of emissions. We're going to get a national cut target. The target will relate to the non-quota sector, i.e. areas such as transport, construction and agriculture. Climate emissions need to decrease, and Norway needs to go ahead and show that it is possible to cut significantly in its own emissions through concrete measures at home. We think that this is another decision that moves us even a little bit closer to the climate goals we just have to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5857	I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. This may not be the most difficult part of the work we are going to have in Stortingen on climate policy, but it has nevertheless been important that a broad consensus has been reached on the indicative targets to be notified before the Paris climate summit. It is also important because the targets have to be over a long period of time – 15 years ahead is quite a long time, and we know that while we are now setting targets, we cannot afford to push the measures ahead of us and postpone the work with them. The goals may not be the most demanding part of the work we're facing. The debate on the measures andimplementation will be several times more important and several times more demanding. It is the most important debate – how we, as a society, meet the transformations required by climate policy. The centre party believes it is important that a question of seas, in the light of the goals we have now set, how we can facilitate future industry in Norway, how climate objectives can contribute to the development of technologies, jobs and green growth that also help us to take over in the low-carbon society. Like the representative from the Labour Party, I have to say that I think we could get any further when we now discuss the objectives, at least to have a preliminary discussion about the transition we have to undergo, and the measures we have to go into. There are many demanding tracks ahead of us, but there are also some possibilities in that ambition, which is becoming carbon neutral. That incentive to the long-term goal of transforming Norway into a carbon-neutral society was also to come further into committee work this time. This was not the case, but there are some proposals here, and there are some leads from the work that also give us opportunities to discuss the measures in the future. The targets we have now set for the ETS sector mean that one should achieve a 43 pst reduction in CO2 emissions. The centre party believes it is important that not only does one leave the quota-based sector to a quota market, but from the Norwegian side we are actively preparing for the low-carbon industry by continuing measures such as the CO2 tax, but also by positive instruments for technology development in industry. Norway will then, through negotiations with the EU, set a national emission reduction target in the non-quota sector and there is reason to expect Norway to take large emission reductions in this sector. This will mean major shifts in a number of areas. In addition, Norway is free – and I believe that this is reason to stress – to contribute to climate action such as the international forestry effort, the UN Green Fund and the commitment to renewable energy in developing countries. It is a work that should be developed further. One of the sectors facing major changes in the future is the transport sector. A transition to a car park where electric cars and low - emission cars dominate will be absolutely necessary. The country must conclude long-term agreements with the major cities to contribute to more climate-friendly transport solutions. The railway must be further developed, intercity development is important, but the most climate-friendly single measure that you can do within Norwegian rail is electrify the remaining diesel sections, including: Nordlandsbanen, Trønderbanen and Rørosbanen. Forests also play an important role in climate policy. Forest is an example of an area where business development and greenhouse gas reduction go hand in hand, and including the role of forest as carbon stock can simultaneously increase the use of forest resources. Overall, it has been estimated that forests can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2 million tonnes. The majority of the emphasis on the role of forest as carbon stock while the ability of forest to deliver renewable raw materials is very important, and the centre party would certainly have wanted an even clearer statement that a climate agreement needs to stimulate increased use and activity in forests. There's a lot of opportunities ahead of us, and there's a lot of demanding things. The centre party is pleased that there was a broad consensus on the objectives, but we look forward very much to the debate on the further transformation and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5884	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the government for their cooperation and agreement to make a major effort to join the European Union's objectives, but also the rest of the Committee for our reaching a broad majority for that very main action. To reduce emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 is a common commitment, but it is important to remember, as was pointed out, that there are only 15 years left. There are therefore major shifts that Norway, but also the EU, must make to achieve these objectives. I just have to say, President, that I have unfortunately managed to lose a piece of a tooth in the course of the day, so I'm struggling a little bit with how I'm going to do this, but it'll be fine. It's relatively unpleasant. But I'll tell you what to do. What is important is that we now have a common commitment to join the EU's emissions bubble. It is true, as several have pointed out, that there was a clear distinction between the allowances sector and the non-quota sector. It is clear that it is expected that with our economy we will have strong commitments to reduce within what is non-quota, but like the representative Arnstad, it is also important for the Left that we have ambitions in the quota-free sector, precisely with the CO2 tax. It is important for us that we have the petroleum sector with the lowest emissions in the world, and also for Norwegian industry, it is important to be in the front line by having measures, especially positive measures, but also by the industry itself putting itself in the harness to reduce its emissions. Then there will be a process towards 2016, where the EU allocates, and an allocation of emission targets will be made. We will also have one thing where we can set our own targets by 2030. The left thinks it's right to do it. Countries such as Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom have their own emission targets, and Norway too. There is nothing by adhering to the EU's objectives that suggests that we should not have ambitious own objectives that go beyond that obligation. But this is a registration to the United Nations. And what's the big difference with this solution is that we don't buy allowances outside the EU, which we can offset against Norwegian or European emissions. The obligation and what we now report will also be the reduction. But then it's a challenge for the Council of State towards the UN to bring forward ambitions outside the EU. Rainforest bet must be reinforced. What Norway is adding to the green fund, which we have built up to a level, we also need to look at whether we can strengthen it. We must continue to invest in renewable energy. We also need to have into the discussion, if necessary, in order to have an agreement in Paris, that we are looking at the possibility of any flexible mechanisms. In this context, the Council of States must do something, for one thing is, after all, to set the objectives for Norway and Europe and guarantee that we will achieve these objectives and make the policy to achieve them, but the important thing is to be able to get an ambitious agreement in Paris and have ambitions outside the EU, so that this can be realised. So there's a lot of talk about that we have to get started with the measures now. Then it is important to clarify that the climate agreement applies. So by 2020, the goal of getting down to 47 million tonnes is a commitment that Storting still has to work for, and we need measures to achieve it. The Environment Directorate has shown that we were behind 8 million tonnes. The bourgeois majority has launched a number of initiatives, and we have an agreement to strengthen the climate agreement. It must continue whether it is within public transport, it is continuing a green tax shift, it is sticking to the benefits of electric cars, hybrid cars, for which conditions have improved, it is putting in place a hydrogen strategy, or it is building up under environmentally friendly shipping and ensuring that Norwegian industry is at the forefront also of cutting emissions. It needs to be reviewed in areas by region, and both the next revised budget, the budget and individual decisions in the Grand Duchy are important for achieving that objective. Then we're going to set the longer targets when there's a new case from 2016, when the distribution is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5904	The president can assure Elvesuen that the performance was unpredictable, even with a bad tooth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5907	I hope the President can carry over with this woolen shawl that I had to put on at the evening shift, since Marit Nybakk has gone off guard. The government has provided a big message linking Norway’s climate policy to the EU even more closely. We have not hidden the fact that SV had sought ambitious, fair and clear goals – goals that provide a clear course towards the zero-emission society. We could cut Norway's own emissions at the same time and demonstrate international solidarity with those who are hit hardest by climate change. Instead, the government is acting in the new paradisaic section of Norwegian climate policy – depending on unclear targets on how much to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norwegian soil, by mixing national targets with the use of so-called flexible mechanisms internationally. It is not a phenomenon that is unique to the right of the policy. It was also hard thanks when we in SV collided with our friends in the red-green government. It is true that the climate target for 2020 is not particularly easy to understand for a layman, but we had national targets at the same time. Emissions in 2020 were down to a maximum of 47 million tonnes. SV will have a clear target for domestic emissions cut by 2030 and half Norwegian emissions down to 25 million tonnes of CO2. Now, national climate targets are instead history, and that's a shame. After the weather forecast, it is impossible to know what kind of climate is going on in Norway by 2030. Or to put it in the words of Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft: there's a little bit of thinking about a number. Not even for all emissions outside the European ETS, the Minister for Climate and Environment has no answer that can be understood. It's going to be close to 40 pst. than 0 pst., said Tine Sundtoft in Stortinget last week. The decision to join the EU's climate policy framework is an attempt to avoid setting own targets for domestic emissions. Instead, the government will negotiate to get a chance to take a spill in other European countries. Unfortunately, Norway is now travelling to the Paris climate negotiations without clear targets for national emissions. Of course, it is fully possible for the Stortinget to continue to set clear targets for domestic spills in Norway and for each sector. This means that the government and the supporting parties will have to deliver sooner or later if they are to have a twist of tru value. But there's not exactly any zeal we're witnessing when the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are unable to vote in favour of the proposal that a plan for national emission reductions and a big message on climate policy that shows how the 2030 targets will contribute to long-term climate-friendly conversion. The visions of the government for climate action in individual sectors are also vague and non-obligatory. SV would like to see concrete bets on its side. Norway shall have the ambition that its tradesmen be experts in climate solutions and the aim must be to halve its energy use in construction by 2030. Such a commitment would be a good example of the fact that Norway's main advantage is all the expertise in the heads and hands of Norwegian workers, and the innovation potential and the willingness to change and cooperation in Norwegian working life are unique. What we call the ‘Norwegian model’ can also help us in the transition to the zero-emission society. Nor does the Minister have a concrete commitment to international solidarity with people in poor countries who experience the climate change on their bodies. The Lima Summit concluded that the national contributions should assess the fairness of the ambition level of the notified climate targets to the countries. This must mean that the historical responsibility of the countries for greenhouse gas emissions and economic space determines the level of ambition. It is for the vote that the only government able to point out on this issue is a cost-effective distribution of greenhouse gas emissions between regions. Cost-effectiveness and correction are not the same. SV challenges researchers to respond to what is Norway's climate responsibility by 2030. They respond that Norway’s historical responsibility for climate change means cut of at least 50 pst. towards 2030, and climate responsibility is increasing up to six times to Norway, if one takes note that Norway is a rich country. Norway could present an own target for Norway’s contribution to financing emissions reductions and climate adaptation in developing countries by 2030 and many more things that I do not intend to address. With this, I include our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5941	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5944	What we are discussing today is what Norway as a nation is committed to doing to ensure that our children and grandchildren will be able to take over a planet that has a viable climate. The Green Party supports, in principle, the approach of the government by joining the EU climate system, with a Norwegian commitment for 2030. This will mean that Norwegian climate targets go from being one of the worst in Europe in practice to getting a lot better. Let us make one thing clear right away: with the constitution of the Committee majority and with the government's proposals, Norway is still not going to cover our legitimate share of global climate responsibility. The main problem that remains is that with the structure proposed by the government and supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, a policy is pursued that has two major shortcomings. One is that it is tailored to protect Norwegian oil and gas activities from effective climate action, and the other is that it continues to refrain from using other of Norway’s major instruments, which could contribute to global climate change. Since the first Norwegian base oil was extracted in 1969, Norwegian base oil and gas have been incinerated and converted into approximately 14,000 million tonnes of CO2 – 14 billion tonnes of CO2 – in the atmosphere, according to climate researcher Glen Peters at CICERO Climate Research Centre. It's a very large number. It's 280 times more than our national emissions of about 50 million tons. This means that Norway is not a small and unimportant country in the global climate accounts. We are one of those countries that has a real responsibility for global climate change. When we are about to report a new climate obligation to the United Nations, the Green Party believes that an obligation must include an extended thinking on how to discharge Norway’s climate responsibility and how Norway develops its own policy, including industrial policy, in order to contribute to this. Then it is important that we include the major instruments that can be used to solve global climate responsibility. The Greens believe that Norway's commitment to the UN should be based on four pillars. Firstly, we must have a clear target for domestic emissions, because, in line with our historic responsibility as a rich oil country, domestic emissions should be reduced to 20 million tonnes of CO2, corresponding to about 60 pst in 2030. cut compared to 1990 levels. Secondly, we must phase out Norwegian oil and gas production during a 20-year period. It is the production and use of oil, gas and coal that is the climate problem, and at some point you have to assume that it is produced too much and is being looked for too much. Norway has to take part in the responsibility for stepping down that activity. Thirdly, Norway must make a strong contribution to international climate funding. The Green Party has already proposed in Stortinget that we make the corresponding 1 pst by 2020. of gross national income for climate action in developing countries, estimated at 30 billion. kr today. Finally, Norway needs to invest its savings in something that contributes to sustainable development in other countries. That is to say, by 2020, the oil fund should have deducted its investments from fossil investments and put all of them into investments that contribute to sustainable development. So the Greens are in favour of an approach to cooperating with the EU in climate policy, but we note, as the Left and others have also pointed out, that these concrete climate objectives that we are now asking the EU to impose, we have this hall in which to decide. We should have done that, and we should still do that. Today, what will be the concrete impact of the majority climate policy on Norwegian emissions is in blue and blue. The Greens will join the majority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5976	Would the representative Rasmus Hansson like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5979	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5984	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e5987	2015 will be a crucial year for the climate. In December, politicians and negotiators from all over the world meet in Paris. The aim is to agree on an agreement that ensures that global warming does not exceed two degrees Celsius. All countries must contribute here. The two-degree target requires major changes in world investment patterns and in the development of low-carbon technologies. Norway shall contribute to global climate change. We're going to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030 compared with 1990. The government's proposal is that we implement this jointly with the EU. It will provide an emission path in Europe in line with the two-degree target. The submission of Norway’s emission targets is an important milestone in the path towards the low-emission society. Last March, I received the GAP report from the Environment Directorate. It showed how we were going to achieve the climate goals. At the same time, the government invited a climate dew around the road to the low-emission society. Last October, I received a broad knowledge base for low-emission development. I have also set up a climate council that has made valuable contributions. On this basis, the government has chosen to point to five areas of activity to help reduce emissions in Norway and the world. The government’s Storting Communication has two perspectives: firstly, Norway will provide an indicative commitment to climate negotiations. We're doing our part of the job of an ambitious and committed climate agreement in December. Secondly, Norway shall pursue an ambitious national climate policy. Norway shall become a low-emission society in 2050. We have a great potential for a successful transition that can provide better quality of life and greater green competitiveness. Here I want, among other things. mention the world's purest aluminium production, one of the world's most innovative shipping industries and the development of climate-smart cities. I note that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment joins in the ambition to lead Norway in the green shift in Europe. The government is strengthening the climate agreement. We focus on technology development, inter alia: through the Climate and Technology Fund. In the transport sector, we reduce emissions by many different instruments. We have put forward a carbon capture and storage strategy. Through the Green Tax Commission, we will also present a proposal at the end of the year. Norway’s emissions shall be further reduced by 2030. The government has identified five priority climate policy areas. It is a concrete example of where Norway will contribute in particular. This is how we can lay the foundation for a forward-looking business. We should also contribute beyond Europe with climate and forest spending, the UN Green Climate Fund and renewable energy in developing countries. Norway will also work to ensure that the Paris Agreement includes market mechanisms to achieve the emission targets. I am therefore pleased that the suspension states that Norway will assume obligations beyond 40 p.m. reduction through flexible mechanisms in the UN Framework for Climate Change, if this can contribute to a global and ambitious climate agreement in Paris. The government has chosen to cooperate with the EU. Increased international cooperation is essential in order to achieve global climate objectives. The EU and Norway already have close cooperation in the climate field. This is now being reinforced. It will benefit Norwegian business, and it will facilitate the implementation of the green shift in Norway. I will now, in cooperation with my government colleagues, start discussions with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the emissions obligation. The EU will not be able to set targets for emission reductions in the non-quota sector until next year. It will therefore take some time before everything is resolved. Efforts to reduce national emissions will continue with full gravity. The whole government is behind a process of transformation that is absolutely necessary for climate reasons, but that also gives us new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6018	If there's a reason for that, I'd like to take up the suggestions that I forgot to make when I kept my first post, before I go on the line. Now, the Storting is going to join in with what has been presented by the government. We're going to go towards the EU and figure out what's in it. The only thing that's so clear is that very much is still unclear. When we were in government, we were very open, we invited to a broadest possible majority in Stortinget when we presented our climate announcements. Can the Council of State say anything now if, after the necessary clarifications with the EU have been carried out, she intends to invite the Stortinget to wide-ranging discussions on the road until 2030 and possibly until 2050?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6025	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6028	Let me first stress that now the government is working on what the Stortinget has already decided. The size has adopted a climate settlement that we are working to strengthen, so that we can achieve the 2020 targets. 2020 is an important year on the road to 2030. Then we will enter into negotiations with the European Union on what objectives we have for the non-quota sector. I think it is good that the Storting is well involved in that work, and the work on national emission reductions will be part of the continuous effort to strengthen climate reconciliation. I believe that this must be seen in the context of the agreement we are now to conclude with the EU, where the Storting will be kept informed, and will come back to Stortingen in the ordinary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6033	I think Stortinget is well aware that the government is working to strengthen the climate agreement. I asked concretely: can the Council of State already clarify to the Grand Council whether she intends to come to the Grand Duchy, after having resolved with the EU what will become Norway's role, to talk widely and try to establish a broadest possible majority for the road by 2030 or 2050? If the Council of State can't clarify it, I think there's cause for concern, because there's something you need in a long-term policy, where you're going to bind many of the leaders who might be in Norway and this assembly this year, there's a starting point that there's the widest possible support in the Grand Duchy. With respect to reporting: In the light of the matter we are going to deal with, the unrest that I have should also concern the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6039	I fully agree with the representative of Aasland that when we are going through a shift of society towards a low-carbon society, it is good that the Stortinget is also so broadly united in this matter, as one has done in the climate agreement. We shall keep the Storting constantly informed about this when we have negotiated with the EU, and I have said that we shall return to Stortinget in the ordinary process. In order for us to be able to anchor the necessary conversion work, it must be close cooperation with Stortinget, but I have said in connection with ordinary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6044	I'm actually a little worried about what I hear now: ordinary processes, budgetary processes, etc. It is perhaps because one will most likely take the big things and of course a lot of them, but with regard to the long lines of climate policy, which have been some of the Biggest – let's say – focus and discussion, the government will present a comprehensive document, an overall plan for the road up to 2030, possibly until 2050, based on what is settled with the EU, and then invite the Biggestingen to a broad settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6049	Now the government is working on strengthening the climate agreement, based on what the Storting has decided. We did not come to the table of climate policy. We found out that the gap is 8 million tons. We are now concentrating on achieving the 2020 target. We have now invited Stortinget to set 2030 targets. We need to enter into negotiations with the European Union. We're going to keep the Storting continuously orientated and come back in ordinary processes, but there has to be a broad anchoring in Stortinget with the 2030 targets and how to achieve them. It must be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6054	I would first like to thank the post and the Council of State is so clear that we need to launch actions and strengthen action now to achieve targets in 2020. I am also pleased that the Council of States is so clear that we need international ambitions outside the EU to help get an international agreement in Paris, which is absolutely crucial. But then my question is, now we have a process. We set targets, but it is also a process – a process in the EU and with the EU up to 2016, as it will be an allocation of objectives. It is then important, in the view of the Left, that we not only relate to what is allocated, but that we set our own national targets for national cuts towards 2030, as other EU countries have done. Does the Council of State agree that we need domestic cut once the distribution has been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6061	I definitely agree with that. That is what we are now going to do in the non-quota sector. Now we are going into negotiations with the European Union. First, the EU must distribute its 30 pst. in 28 countries. There I've said that we don't know exactly what number we get, but that it's going to be in the upper limit, is pretty clear. And when we're going to cut into non-quota sectors, we have to set national targets. That is why we have designated the five areas of activity. We may already have to bear in mind, as we do in our cooperation to strengthen the climate agreement, that we need to do much more in transport, which is perhaps the most convenient thing to do in the non-quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6066	I can take an additional question that I didn't raise. One thing is objective; I have never seen that it is national targets, but there are other objectives that are also within the EU, among others. in the case of energy savings or renewable energy. But there are common targets and not broken down on the individual countries. Then my question is about objectives other than the purely emissions: does the Council of State agree that we need to set our own national targets, including for energy savings and also for renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6071	When we recorded Norway's thoughts on the 2030 targets for the EU, we were concerned that the emission target was the most important and believe that the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement is an important instrument for achieving that target. Here we have to see all of this in a context. We're talking about a transformation of a society to reach the low-carbon society. We have to work on emissions in many sectors. We are already committed to the EU in the quota sector. Now we have to work more in the non-quota sector, and we also have to do more with renewable energy. The EU is pleased with our contribution now, that we have given concessions to foreign tables to Germany and England, so that we can also contribute to the necessary transition in Europe. What we want is to see this in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6076	The other day, both today's oil council and the previous oil council, went out and made almost unreserved promises of an eternal future for Norwegian oil and gas industry. At the same time, we know that Norwegian oil and gas activities are Norway's greatest contribution to global climate change. In the climate notification, oil and gas activities are hidden from the concept of ‘quota-free sector’ and otherwise no mention has been made. Can the Norwegian climate minister explain how to present a Norwegian climate notification without mentioning the Norwegian oil and gas sector in one word?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6083	In our total effort to reduce emissions, Norwegian oil and gas must also take their share to reduce emissions. Now they're taking their share by being part of the allowance system in addition to paying the highest CO2 charge in the world. The Norwegian paradox is that we are an oil and gas nation that also works offensively to get a good climate agreement in place in Paris with the aim of setting an even higher price of CO2, so that the oil and gas sector also has to take part in the emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6094	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6097	It would really be unnecessary to take the floor again in this debate, because the framework is really quite clear, but I think the change of lines right now created very much immortality. Firstly, I agree that it is important to set an emission target now, and then it will be clarified with the EU how we have to judge ourselves here at home. But it's not entirely unimportant for the Storting how to achieve the emission targets that are set. When I then asked the Council of State if she intends to come to Stortinget and discuss with Stortinget how the targets will be met by 2030, the Council of State will not be able to answer. I think that's a little special, because there's something that should gather the Storting, that's the way we're going to work out by 2030 and by 2050 in our time maybe the most important thing. Then I think there is reason for concern when the answer is not obvious yes. I also believe that when no answer is given to the question asked by the representative of Elvesuen, I think it should concern the representative of Elvesuen, who presented the target message together with the Council of State – or at least his party. What is left of the item now in connection with this matter after tonight is that here is very much unclear. Here it is – so far – very little will to get to Stortinget and try to make a collection around the road ahead. I think that is a cause for concern. If the government does not intend to come to Stortinget to try to create the widest possible settlement on the road by 2030 and by 2050, then I think the Stortinget must respond appropriately to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6112	I don't think there's any reason to be so worried here and now, night to March 25. The size of the store agrees on the way forward until 2030. It is also the case that an agreement with the EU has to be ratified by the Stortinget, so that one comes back to Stortinget. What I have not confirmed now, and that the representative of Aasland is very concerned about, is a new climate settlement. We have an agreed climate settlement that we're working for, and that we're also working to strengthen. Then we set ourselves the 2030 targets, where we also get defined national cut in the non-quota sector. And we say that we will come back to Stortinget with this in ordinary processes. Of course, the Stortinget gets involved in that work, and as I also said in the line change, it is crucial to get a broad political understanding of the transition Norway needs to undergo.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6117	I feel that the Council of State has been very clear that the Storting should be involved in the follow-up to the goal we are adopting today. The following is also stated in the setting on page 5, if the representative of Aasland has read it: ‘The majority of the committee asks the government to come to the Storting on a case-by-case basis after the allocation of effort is clear, which describes how the government will work to achieve these objectives.’ [[.....]] In addition, it says: ‘If a common solution does not result, the target of at least 40 pst will be achieved. emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 is Norway’s indicative obligation. The majority ask the government to come to Stortinget with a separate case that describes how Norway will work to achieve our indicative commitment if a joint solution with the EU against presumption is not to come forward.’ So there's one thing coming anyway, which the representative of Aasland should know if he had read the position that he's part of. So on to the broad anchoring, for which we have tradition in Stortinget: It came into place as a result of the last government producing two climate announcements – not just one, but two – that were so weak that the Storting had to follow up with a climate settlement. This government does not intend to take time to present bad climate messages, which must be followed up with climate settlement through an impatient opposition – and that is because the impatient opposition that was set in the previous period is now in position and thus has the opportunity to follow up these things on an ongoing basis, including through its own affairs to the Stortinget, as described in the setting. So I feel confident that we will have a broad anchoring of both the goal – which we have received today – and the follow-up to the goal. So there's no reason to worry about the way Aasland's representative is. This is going to be followed up in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6136	I also responded to what Aasland said. I cannot see that there is anything unclear about this matter. What we are doing now is giving a clear message to the United Nations, where we join – if we come to an agreement with the European Union – that we get 40 pst. emission reduction and one must have systems to guarantee that it will be 40 pst. emission reductions within the EU emission bubble. At the same time, we have a very clear commitment – to which I think the Council of State responds well – to extend our international efforts to reach an agreement in Paris. We're not just setting ourselves a goal -- we're also starting a process. And as the representative Astrup referred to, one comes back to Stortinget – whether one has a consensus or not – with the question of how to set the national targets concretely and how to implement them in the years to come. The left is at least set for us to go into that process. We believe that we need clear national targets; we need national targets for domestic cuts, which other EU countries have. But that process will continue until 2016, and we will take that discussion in 2016. What is important now is that we relate to the decisions that we have already taken, which are climate-relations with emission reductions towards 2020. It's difficult, but still possible. Climate agreement on climate neutrality in 2030 is also firm, with the commitments it gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6145	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6148	I can assure you that I have read the statement, and I urged the Council of State to invite you to a broad settlement already now when the EU framework was resolved. I have not received that answer. When we were in government, we sought the widest possible majority – despite having a majority. I think it was wise that time, and I think it's wise to continue. What we see through this matter, at least, is that the government and the supporting parties did not intend to seek solutions broadly in the Stortinget, before one went to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6157	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6171	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6178	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on constructive cooperation. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the proposers, Mrs Arnstad, Mr Andersen Eide and Mr Hansson, for the fact that the Stortinget had the challenge of discussing a climate law, because the issue of a climate law has actually been discussed for a long time in the political discussion. In the 2011 climate agreement, it was decided that the government should assess the appropriateness of a climate law. It is in so far as a work that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has started, but in parallel with this, we got this matter. The committee's proceedings, I believe, have, for most members of the committee at least, demystified the topic of climate law. The Committee has focused specifically on what there is every reason to believe has positive effects and a framework for climate action. The experience gained in achieving the objectives already set, I think, is that it is okay to have a framework around climate action and that the objectives are clarified. The majority of the Committee also share strong professional input from the Committee of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Institute of Fridtjof Nansen and CICERO. Then we see that others have also given input to the government, among other things. The Transport Economic Institute, where they share the idea that a climate law will provide added value. The long-term objectives and the main elements of a collapse-government reporting system are then the focus. A majority of the Committee therefore also believes that legalising the long-term objectives can contribute to greater predictability and is thus a clear expression of the implementation of the low-carbon society. This also provides a clear guide to the direction in which society is to be developed, thus contributing to a more climate-friendly development. That is why, with the exception of the Progress Party, an almost collective committee has asked the government, through proposals, this evening, to promote a proposal for a climate law in accordance with the principles I have set out – that the long-term emission targets and also the reporting and governance mechanisms between landfill and government. However, targets and climate laws are only the framework for the policy we are going to pursue in Norway. Climate policy is a policy from a generational point of view, and predictability and long-termity are important. Then I can leave the case rapporteur's role a little bit on the tap and just wonder a little about the Advancement Party. As a party of government – and as the only party on the Stortinget – they choose to vote against such a supreme law. The justification is, in my opinion and ours, very thin and almost non-existent. Such an approach can in fact only be due to the emergence of climate skeptics in the party. In my view, this gives cause for concern about future conclusions on key climate policy issues and actions. It also shows, with respect to reporting, the discussion we had in the previous case about the discussions that must take place in government when separating teams in a matter like this. I nevertheless hope, despite the disagreement that exists between the government parties on a climate law, that the part of the government that is in favour of this can follow up the decision quickly and constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6193	As a conservative politician, my moral and ideological starting point is the administration responsibility. We must leave the earth in at least as good condition to our descendants as we received it from our ancestors. This means that the sum of material and intellectual resources, natural resources and life base in the form of a sustainable environment must be provided for future generations. This involves a balance between different considerations, both short-term and long-term. I initially agreed with SV's Vice-Chairman and the former Minister of the Environment of the Red-Green Government, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, when he went out on 12 March last year to Today's Business and warned against believing that a climate law would improve Norwegian climate policy. Like the former Red-Green Environment Minister, I felt that there was no lack of legislation that was the problem, but also the years of political downgrading of decisions for the benefit of the environment that was the reason why today's government took over a climate reality that showed a emissions gap between actual national emissions and its own emission targets of 8 million tonnes of CO2. I still believe that it is the most important concrete climate and environmental policy and that a climate law can only be added to the daily work of the government and the cooperation parties to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The government and the parties involved in cooperation in the conversion of vehicle and fuel charges in a greener direction, the use of their purchasing power in the service of the climate and the environment, and not least the new 2030 climate framework, are important and concrete measures that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I also disagreed with the representative of Aasland, the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government, among others. the elimination of the tax exemption on biodiesel – a concrete and important measure for a cleaner transport sector. Fortunately, we have got a new government and a constructive cooperation climate on the civil side that has corrected the red-green fault, and for the first time we have got a government budget that will lead to a decline in emissions from the transport sector. Hopefully, the many jobs lost as a result of the red-green tax increase will also be created again. The day after Bård Vegar Solhjell's performance in DN, Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft went to the pulpit in Oslo City Hall. After a long day of good organisational and business input on how Norway can reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the government’s Climate Change Conference concluded by saying that the government would now follow up the decision of the Climate Change Agreement and initiate efforts to assess the appropriateness of a climate law in Norway, based on experience with today’s legislation and instruments, an investigation that the red-green government had put in the drawer, which may be worth recalling, all the time the Workers’ Party now talks about climate skeptics. The Government has held an open hearing in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and an open round of events which ended on 30 January this year. In addition, the Council of State has discussed the matter in the Climate Change Council of the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change. As a result of good processes, discussions and discussions, Right and I have come to support I and II in this position, because we see a possible law, which will be a coordination and overbuilding of legislation in the climate field, as a good way to improve access to and overview of Norwegian climate policy. But the most important climate policy we adopt in the Grand Duchy today is not this proposal. More importantly, the issue we have just debated is the climate targets for 2030. The fact that Norway is now closer to the EU in climate action is very positive. This climate framework is also a regulatory overall climate objective, which will require commitment. We're going to cut our emissions, jointly with the EU, by 40 pst. in comparison with 1990. By cooperating with the EU on this issue, we create a new predictability of Norwegian climate policy, while raising the level of ambition and committing ourselves to delivering. Finally, I would like to remind you that the most important job we do to combat climate change is the actual measures we implement, the actual green shift we implement, for example. in the transport sector and in industry – not to adopt an overall climate legislation. These are the concrete measures that will ensure that we do not also face a situation in the future with a huge gap between agreed objectives and actual results, as we do today. That being said, the fact that the Council of State survey asked for where we stand today also shows that reporting on status is a necessary reminder. If a climate law can help to make sure that we keep up-to-date on how we actually are, I and Right regard it as very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6213	The progress party does not believe the way to solve the climate challenges is by adopting a new law, as the majority advocates. The Progress Party believes that climate and environmental challenges are best managed through concrete actions with the most impact globally as well as nationally. Previous debate and objectives related to the Report. St. 13 for 2014–2015 is a good example of this. A climate law is in itself no guarantee of goal achievement. The representative of Aasland was a tour of the Progress Party. He wondered about the party and thought that our foundation to go against a climate law was very thin. Then you might ask yourself: was it the lack of a climate law that made the red-greens go around and hang on with distributions, and that led to the emission increase over that period of Aasland and Co. put in the driver's seat, while now one has concrete plans to reduce them? In this context, the Progress Party will refer to the report The New Climate Economy, which was published in the autumn of 2014. The report focuses on opportunities to tackle growth and climate change in three critical systems: cities, agriculture and energy. The three key drivers for change are resource efficiency, infrastructure investment and innovation. The report recommends inter alia: building more productive and cleaner cities, better land use and conversion of renewable energy systems and better resource use. The report distinguishes between measures for low-, medium- and high-income countries. The report is generally very specific in terms of what action should be taken to address the challenges. After the Progress Party's view, the report has been more effective in resolving climate challenges than ever before. The Progress Party questions the purpose of the laws, and not least the way in which the laws are to be enforced. Climate challenges are a global problem that is not solved by national prohibition laws, but through international agreements that oblige the parties to take action to address climate and environmental challenges. The party of progress is afraid that a climate law will become a paper tiger: at first sight, it will seem daring, but in reality it will be toothless and without claws. A law marks high time, authority, and importance, but is no guarantee of goal attainment, as many people seem to believe. If it was that simple, there were several themes that suggested a law – perhaps a law against empty swimming pools, a law against poverty for children, or a law against involuntary part-time, and so on. There are many important political issues that are not solved, and if we are to solve them by law, we have to be sure to put those laws in place. The party of progress thinks we're undermining the rule of law by laws that don't actually help solve the challenges. The progress party also asks questions by adding a climate law with a time limit of 2050, as it is added from the plurality of this room. The Progress Party does not know that one at any time in modern times has passed laws from Stortinget with the expiry date. I will end with an old progress party slogan that can be an inspiration for the plurality of this room: the future is created, it is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6232	If one does not fully agree with one government party, it is good to be comforted by the fact that the second government party had a very good post, because the post of representative Tina Bru made me think that the Christian People's Party has been a strong driver of climate law for a long time, and at the last turn in the climate negotiations we got it in, and then the appropriateness had to be investigated. I remember that in one of the last posts I had before the 2013 elections, I asked the then Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhell if he had followed it up. It had happened the year before, and nothing had been started. As the representative Tina Bru came up with, it appeared in a look-up later that he was strongly opposed to it. That is why it was important for us, together with the Greens/Centre Party, to promote the proposal here because we felt it was urgent. That's why I'm very happy that there's become a majority in this case. The United Kingdom, as I have shown many times, has good experience with its climate legislation, which was adopted in 2008. The British law legislates 80 pst. reductions in greenhouse gas emissions up to 2050, by 1990 as reference year. All the departments are obliged to follow their allocated carbon budget, and therefore I would like to tell the representative Grimstad that one will thus also be obliged by the law to follow up. That is why we believe that this will be an important instrument. They see it as a good tool for creating long-term binding policy solutions, and it has strengthened the influence of the Ministry of Climate and Energy on government. The United Kingdom has also significantly changed its energy policy since the law was passed on to them. Several other countries have, or are in the process of implementing, national climate laws. In 2012, Mexico followed and then Finland and Denmark, and China is working on legislative proposals. There is a great reason to be enthusiastic about the fact that almost all of the parties are now in favour of Norway being given its climate legislation during this majorisation period. It is absolutely essential that the consensus we have on this proposal results in a strong and binding climate law. We believe it is absolutely essential that national climate targets are based on facts from climate science. There is broad political agreement in Norway on many of the measures to achieve the 2 degree target, but many of the main measures needed can be rapidly prioritised in competition with more short-term measures. A climate law with carbon budget according to the British model will ensure a longer-term climate policy. It will shift the discussion from how, because we set the framework, but leaves to politicians to decide the measures to reduce emissions sufficiently. A climate law will oblige any government to follow up climate objectives and provide tools for systematic reporting of actions undertaken. Today, we lack an overall tool to provide long-term emission reductions in all sectors. A climate law will make the overall emission targets legally binding. The WWF, which has been in the process of implementing climate legislation in the last five years, has pointed to four elements in order to ensure a strong climate law: Numerous national emission targets for 2030 and 2050, which are in line with Norway’s responsibility to avoid 2 degrees of global warming – we did so in the previous case. Carbon budgets that allocate Norwegian emissions reductions to all sectors, so that we ensure a predictable business environment and underpin any decisions to be taken in the administration. Detailed and sectoral reporting in the annual government budgets showing how the sum of planned emissions and emission reduction measures ensures a trend in line with the adopted climate targets. A secretariat responsible for making professional recommendations to the government, including the preparation of the carbon budget and the annual reporting to the Stortinget. We believe these are important points that the government has to look at when to follow it up, and a climate law according to that pattern, and according to the British law, is one of the most important laws that Stortinget can adopt, because we believe it will ensure a longer-term climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6260	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6263	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6268	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6271	It is very positive that the committee has managed to gather as far as it has done with regard to the intention of a bill that could be called a climate law, but that does not take the step properly as far as the Centre party, along with the Green Party and the Christian People's Party, would have wanted. But I think it is positive that the matter we are dealing with today means that we are going to have a legislative proposal, which sets out the long-term national emission targets, and that it is going to happen in such a way that that matter is to be dealt with during the current accumulation period. That's good. The debate on climate law has taken place in many parties, and I think we will recognise that today's seas are fairly united about some of the leaders associated with a legislative proposal, there are probably different ambitions in the various parties about how far-reaching such a climate law is going to be, and how committed it will be, how detailed it will regulate the different things. We'll probably have plenty of opportunity to get back to that, and I think that's important. For the Central Party, it is essential that we have a framework that gives us a more long-term and more cross-sectoral commitment, quite simply, and that is what climate law is all about. It is about getting a law, a framework law, which gives us more long-termity and more completeness and therefore also commits us in a stronger way than what we see today. Then, in the opinion of the Centre Party, we have to recognise that carbon budget is an important instrument in such a law. If there is to be a framework law, the question of a carbon budget is one of the important things. Maybe there's also some of the most important experience from the United Kingdom, that the carbon budget they have has been one of the things that have made that law positive. It is true, as some have said, that a climate law alone does not necessarily give us a better climate policy, but it allows us to be more long-term and more comprehensive, and that is good. The experience of the United Kingdom is precisely that the climate law is important in terms of targets, responsibilities and processes, and that carbon budgets are the main means of specifying both emission pathways and providing climate-related targets. It in turn also increases the overall approach to climate issues. I think it is important to draw up a legislative proposal now, to take into account that the UK law is working, and that the responsibility is stronger when it is statutory, and that it leads to the accountability of many parties. It increases the overall role of the Ministry of Climate Change and, above all, it is important in relation to budgetary priorities. I think that climate law is also important in this area. I believe that every climate minister needs some weapons in the fight ahead, and that being able to have some impact on budgetary priorities, and being able to create coordination between different sectors, and that weight, that commitment, must be stronger than before, and that could contribute to climate legislation. So it is said that some of it is special in this case that the two government parties do not agree with each other in relation to a climate law. There I have to be allowed to join the representative of Aasland, who says that he hopes that the part of the government that now joins the vote will also contribute to it being followed up to Stortinget. I also record that the Left has put forward a loose proposal, and that was the time. The centre party was a little afraid that the left would once again save the government's face in such a case, but I expect it to make it easier for the left even when the government parties split layers in the setting, to promote that proposal. That proposal is not exactly what the Central Party wants, but we see that III in the proposal for a decision hardly gets a majority in this Chamber today, and therefore the Central Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal if III falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6286	I can start by saying that I am pleased with the representative Arnstad's last comment. It is starting to be late at night, but we are making important decisions during this night, both in the previous case with the objective towards 2030 and in this case with a climate law. The left has been in favour of a climate law for a long time, and in the last period, proposals were also made, without having a majority in favour. We are very pleased that there is now a broad majority in the Storting, which shows the dynamics that are at the height of this period in the climate field. I would also like to thank the rapporteur. We had a hearing in the committee that I thought was very clarifying about the topic. I think it was useful for a lot of people. It is clear that a climate law itself is not enough to achieve its objectives, but it is a very useful tool to achieve its objectives. It clearly gives what many express, added value to work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Now there is much to be done in relation to how it should be concretely designed, but the objective is to provide a much greater predictability in climate action. Then we also have to adapt a climate law to the system we already have, and it is also pointed out in a note that we need to use the Environment Directorate, which already reports and will report annually on how we are based on the objectives we have set. In Norway, it may not be necessary to have one's own climate council, which you have in the United Kingdom, but that we use what we have. Then to the Progress Party. I fully agree that the concrete measures are, of course, the most important to reduce emissions, but there is really no contradiction between having a climate law and having concrete measures. On the contrary, this is very closely linked. It is precisely what is going to happen in the years to come, to put together a system where we have the already agreed targets towards 2020, where we have objectives that we have set today towards 2030, together with the EU – we also need to set our own national targets by 2030 – and where we have a framework and instruments that ensure that we implement the concrete measures to achieve these objectives, and not once again end up in a situation where we only set high targets, but where the instruments are not proportionate to the objectives. On the left hand side, we are very pleased with this majority. I would also like to address our proposal, which is on loose paper, which states that in the context of a climate law, one has to report in the annual budgets how Norway can achieve the climate targets for 2020, 2030 and by 2050, and not least how the budget affects Norway's greenhouse gas emissions. This is a more precise proposal than what is now III, because III is more about today's budget. I believe that our proposal has the same precision, but points forward to a situation where you have a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6304	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6307	I found today more questions than answers. The previous debate showed clearly that, as of today, there are no multiple Storting to clarify how much greenhouse gases Norway will cut domestically by 2030. This spring, too, no new Norwegian commitments have been put in place until 2030 in solidarity with the world's poorest countries, which are becoming the hardest framework of climate change. After the management of the government's proposal for climate change targets, it is impossible to know how great a climate is going to be in Norway by 2030. Then it's hard to cheer high because the Storting will at the same time agree to legalize the painting for 2030 and 2050. But I'm born on a Sunday and I'm optimistic. Therefore, I sincerely hope that in the long term we will get a large majority to legislate more specifically for domestic spills than to think about a number. I sincerely hope that what is happening today will be the first step towards making laws more than a merger of national targets combined with the so-called flexible mechanisms. SV believes that the content of a climate law determines whether the climate law has added value for the Norwegian climate debate. Thus SV states clearly in the setting what content we want in a climate law. SV mein Norway needs clear climate targets for 2030 and 2050 that determine how large we are going to be in the Norwegian territory for the next 15 and 35 years. SV believes that a transition to the zero-emission society means a half of Norwegian emissions up to 2030 compared to 1990 and further cut after that. What does the government mean about how much we'll cut in Norway for the next 15 years? We don't know. And what do I mean, the working party? We do not know that either, although the representative of Aasland told me in the previous case that they would have concrete measures. A lack of clarity as to what national migration is actually about is a characteristic of the three largest parts of climate policy, because a dream is always that there is a simple solution in another place. This is sad when Norwegian society needs a common understanding of what we're dealing with. We have to steer towards the zero-emission society, my SV. This is a formidable task, which must mean a great deal to how we should develop policies in all areas. We need clarity. For my SV, Norway needs national and sectoral carbon budgets that say something about how we plan to convert individual sectors into the zero-emission society. A climate law should put in place such a carbon budget system. I would like to challenge the major Norwegian political parties to clarify what they want, in addition to asking the EU to contribute. SV announces its support for the proposal submitted by the Left in an attempt to negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6322	It is very good for Norway’s future contribution to global climate change that all parties on the Stortinget now, apart from the Progress Party, agree that Norway needs a climate law that can ensure that adopted emissions reductions are actually implemented and that does so in a systematic way. It is also good to see that the constructive work of the WWF and several other organisations has been running for years to get a climate law in place, now bearing fruits. We in the Green Party decided as one of our first goals at Stortinget to put in place a climate law. Therefore, of course, we thank you for the collaboration with the Christian People's Party, which has worked for a long time on the Stortinget for a climate law, and with the Center Party, which in many ways was part of the mood as they joined the Climate Act. In addition, I think the case rapporteur, Terje Aasland, deserves commendation for having done a good job of bringing together this broad majority, where both SV, Left and Right are involved, a situation in which we have, in a relatively short time, gone from having a large majority on the Stortinget against climate law, to having a large majority on the Stortinget for climate law. The Green Party is not on the Stortinget to make as many new laws as possible – although this is the second law I'm in and make in a few hours now, an interesting experience – but the point is simply that we have to do something about a climate policy that has been a failure for 25 years. We in Norway have told ourselves and each other that we are world leaders, with huge targets. Then our emissions have increased, while the emissions of other countries have decreased – in the order of 20 p.p., when you look at the countries around us. This is because actions have not been implemented. It has been this way for a very long time – and it was so halfway inside the representative Tina Bru’s posts – that every time you talked to people about a binding climate law, they started talking very quickly and for a long time about the need for concrete action. Of course, they're right about that. The problem is that the measures have not been implemented, because the commitment and the mechanism have not been there. The review of the Norwegian climate policy has been unclear about responsibilities and lack of commitments. We have a climate minister now to coordinate the government's climate policy, but who does not have an implementation plan, and has no instruments from other departments. We have expert councils in all sectors with high emissions – such as transport, oil, etc. – but they have no emission targets. They have no concrete plans, and they have no obligations in their sectors. We know the result. In addition, we have had the basic problem – which some people have been facing here – that you have almost had to have a doctorate in the tribal language that is proud of you, in order to understand what the climate agreement means. This means that the pressure and control function of opinion and media have been too weak. Of course – as many people point out – there is still a lot of work to be done before we get a climate law that is good enough. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, we in the Green Party have been specific about what a climate law must contain. That's three things in particular. Firstly, emission targets need to be formulated in such a way that politicians, media and opinion understand them and can test them. In other words, we have to make it clear that there is the amount of greenhouse gas measured in tonnes of CO2 equivalent that Norway will release in 2030 and 2050, which is what this is about. It's what matters how much greenhouse gas emits into the atmosphere. Secondly, the Climate Act must break down this overall national target on specific targets and carbon budgets for each department or sector, and each State Council must have a carbon budget on which it is obliged to deliver. This means that the carbon budgets can be managed, for example: over four years, term of office. When the Storting starts to take this climate job seriously, they will be able to prevent, through the kind of targets and budgets, what has been the problem so far, namely that emissions are still being pushed forward to the next government. We think it is wise to give as clear an order as possible to the government that will propose any climate objectives. We are therefore pleased that we are broadly supported by those proposals. We will therefore, in a subsidiary way, support the precise proposals of the Left if proposal No. 1 – which we have together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party – falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6348	As the previous case has shown well tonight, the government is pursuing an active and planned climate policy, where we are constantly taking new steps to further develop Norwegian climate policy. This is also what we have done in the question of whether it is appropriate to introduce a climate law in Norway. The previous government had come to no conclusion on the matter. I already announced on the government's climate change in March last year that I wanted to get hold of this point in the climate agreement. I thought it was important to invite widely to the views of key social actors and businesses, before the government finally took a position as to whether it would initiate a legislative work. Sending a case on consultation does not often happen in Norway, but it is a very common step in some other countries and in the EU's internal decision-making processes. The note ‘Perspectives of a climate law’ was sent at a wide consultation last autumn. There has also been a discussion with the Climate Council, with representatives from businesses, organisations, research and management, and an open consultation meeting has been held in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The case has proved to be involved. I received a wide range of views, and more than 13 000 support signatures, through this consultation round before it was concluded in January. The main emphasis of those who have spoken is predominantly positive to climate law, or that it deserves to be further investigated. The business community underlines the need for long-term signals and predictability, but is divided into the view that climate law is the right instrument. I notice that the recordings of the Storting Climate Law Seminar also showed an assumed positive added value of introducing a climate law. Since the issue was raised in the climate agreement, our Nordic neighbouring countries Denmark and Finland have adopted climate laws following a model similar to that in the United Kingdom. Sweden is investigating the question. So now it's our turn. As I have stressed on several occasions, legislation needs to be adapted to the national circumstances of a country. We can't necessarily take a blue copy of the British model. Nor has Denmark and Finland done so, they have made national adjustments in their model. When the Committee in its position points out that it does not consider it appropriate with a Climate Council or with its own Climate Committee, but believes that today's system, where the Environment Directorate stands for the professional basis to be correct, I think it is a sensible position, based on our governance structure. I also note that the majority believe that there is a need to review existing legislation that may have an impact on climate, in the context of legislative work. I believe that this is important, because the starting point is that we already have strong legislation in Norway, where, in particular, the pollution law combined with the climate quota law is a cornerstone and is a solid basis of law to control greenhouse gas emissions through instruments anchored in law. Climate law can strengthen our climate democracy. That Norwegian law requires government and enlargement to regularly settle the price of climate policy, I think it can be exacerbating and responsible over time. It's important, because the low-emission society doesn't come about by itself, nor by night. The challenge of transforming Norway into a low-carbon society must be the headline through changing government constellations for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6378	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6381	I think the last post by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment was good, and there is no need to repeat anything you agree with. I am pleased with what she says and summarises from what is the Committee's comments on the matter. I agree with Oskar J. Grimstad that the measures of course are the most important. So Grimstad says that law is no guarantee. It is at least a very strong commitment that lies there, and that obliges the Storting to follow the legislative wording in relation to it. There is in any case no obstacle in a legislative formula attached to it. I think we have to agree on that. The Labour Party has only now reached a conclusion. I actually think a lot of parties in this room have done that. I think that professionally heavy recordings from the Environment Directorate, from CICERO, from the Fridtjof Nansens Institutt, from the Transport Economic Institute and others in the recording phase to the Minister for Climate and Environment, have helped to make that conclusion easier, and I think we should be pleased about that. In sum, this case is not so very different from the previous case. Because it's about framework, it's about commitments, and it's about direction. So the two things are really far on the way very similar. The Labour Party will also vote in favour of the Left's proposal for Option III. At the end of the day, I wish the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment good luck with the legislative work. There may be a bit of a strain in government, but I can comfort her that she has a large and broad majority in the Storting behind her.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6396	We who have been allowed to be on the Stortinget for some time, record that the level of ambition of the Workers' Party has grown strongly on the climate side after they came into opposition – it is significantly higher now than when they were in position, because a climate law was out of date in the previous period, which many people have been in. The representative of Aasland was talking about a framework, while the representative of Rasmus Hansson in a debate programme that I was in, gave a detailed description of a climate law that he sees for himself. This shows that the unity of a climate law is one thing, but the view of the content of a climate law is mildly broad and shows that there is far different understanding of what such a climate law should hold. Then it's referred to England, and England has a climate code. But England doesn't have an environmental directorate either, so it's possible that a climate law could be appropriate there. We have a directorate that helps us on the climate side. And so, to the seventh and last, all decisions require. A decision related to Report. St. 13 for 2014-2015 commits, in line with the fact that a majority and a decision on a climate law can be mandatory, but its content is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6407	The next speaker is the representative of Terje Aasland. The President reminds us that we are going to Case No. 21 during the night.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6410	That reminder is to be remembered, President. I think that the last post actually deserves some attention, but I'll do it in a calm and thoughtful way. Because given that the size now decides: if you read the setting, I think it is very clear. The Minister for Climate and Environment summed it up in a very good way and highlighted the points that are important, and there is no doubt about what the majority of the Grand Duchy puts in the framework of a climate law. The representative of Grimstad's speech went so far beyond what is actually available from the majority in the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6417	We might say that it is a paradox that we are sitting here in the middle of the night on the same day that we have discussed the Working Environment Act in Stortinget. It applies to us as we do not know – it is something we notice now. I took the floor of the last post of the representative of Aasland. He pointed out that the Committee agreed on a number of comments setting out a framework for the functioning of a climate law. It is important to clarify that part of the contributions that have been made to climate law expectations, including: by the representative, Hansson, cannot be said to have been reflected in the majority of the Committee's comments. Among other things, the Committee's position points out that the British model will not be suitable for Norway. So it's going to be leading the way for the further work. With regard to the proposal promoted by the Left, it has been the Right’s view that it is up to the government to establish appropriate ways of reporting to the Stortinge. We have therefore not wanted to support what is the Committee's position on III. With regard to the proposal from the Left, we believe that it has a wording that can nevertheless be acceptable to the Right to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6426	Others have not asked for the word on case 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6445	I won't talk for 30 minutes. I should just like to ask for one thing, namely that there should be a correction at the point of decision and that of the Committee, that is to say, that what needs to be referred to the right decision in the EEA Committee, that is. Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 208/2014 and not to No 2008/2014, as it stands in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6450	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, then made this point. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Case No. 14–21 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6548	As far as the President can see, no one has asked for the floor for case No. 14-21.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6554	Then we're ready to go to voting. There's 60 sides of voting that we're going to go through. It's if it's not spring's most beautiful adventure, it could be a little bit long.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6562	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Anette Trettebergstuen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the general working time of the Working Environment Act in seven days from 40 to 37.5 hours, with a corresponding reduction in working time for shift and rotational workers to 35,5 hours and 33,6 hours.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6588	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 June 2005 nr. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. The first paragraph of Section 10-2 shall be replaced by the following: The employer shall carry out a risk assessment in accordance with the requirements of Section 10-2, first paragraph, 3-1, and second paragraph, points (c), 7-2, second paragraph, point (f), regulation on organisation, management and participation, Section 7-1, second paragraph, and sixth paragraph, and regulation on systematic health, environmental and safety work in establishments, Section 5, second paragraph, point 2. 6 in order to ensure the soundness of the working time system.`;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6610	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to appoint representatives of the employers’ and employees’ organisations in the already reduced Bureau of Hours’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to review the co-supplier’s regulations together with the social partners.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6782	It is quoted first in the first, second, third and fourth paragraphs of Sections 15-13a. The centre party and the Green Party have announced support for the vote. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6799	It is contested in Section 19-1, first, second and third paragraphs. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced support for the adjustment. The President assumes that the Greens will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6815	It is contested in the fourth paragraph of Section 19-1. The Labour Party and the Centre Party have notified and supported the adjustment. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6830	It's going to be over the rest of the I. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6844	It shall be counted against II. The Labour Party and the Center Party have notified support for the adjustment. The President assumes that the Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6860	It's said over III. The centre party has announced support for the setting. The President then assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6876	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6888	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6896	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 4, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asked the government to work for regulations aimed at limiting immigration from the EEA territory.’ The voting boards showed that 97 votes were cast against the proposal and 7 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 03.14.41]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6920	I voted wrong. I was supposed to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6925	Then we adjust the voting. The proposal from the Center Party was then not accepted by 98 votes to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6930	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a review of the instrument to ensure that people with disabilities enter the labour market. The size suggests that the parties, organisations of disabled persons and other relevant professional communities and organisations are closely involved in the processes and assessments made by the government in this work.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e6947	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce the right to permanent employment after 3 years for all of the temporary employment basis of the Labour Environment Act, which is currently covered by the four-year rule, as well as the new general access in Section 14-9(f).’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a bill clarifying that there are only two forms of employment in Norway, employed and temporarily employed respectively.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7138	It is votered over A, in Section 14-9, first paragraph, last sentence. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced support for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7151	It's over A, the rest of I, and II. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7165	It's votting over A, III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced support for the adjustment. The President assumes that the Greens will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7172	Although the clock is a lot, I think it's a misunderstanding, and the Workers' Party is actually going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7177	You think the Labour Party should vote against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7180	That's what we've been notifying you.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7185	But not A?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7188	Not III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7193	We're at A, III-- that's right. I have to ask if the Central Party and the Left Party will support the vote. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7198	The centre party supports III.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7203	So the centre party supports III. What about the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7206	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7211	So the question is whether that's a good answer. We're going to check the text, and we're going to see what's inserted in the notes, so that we have quality assurance. – It is not quite explicit in the text, but this is about its entry into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7217	The Socialist Left Party shall then vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7222	The Socialist Left Party then votes against – and the Central Party votes in favour. So it's going to add up to A, III. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against, and the Central Party will vote in favour. The President assumes that the Greens will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7238	It's over B. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced support for the adjustment. The President assumes that the Greens will vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7251	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7265	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7289	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a minimum of 3 years of cessation of growth in the farming industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a timely plan setting out clear criteria for the transition to a sustainable farming industry, including the transition to closed facilities, or technology with equivalent environmental standards.’ The voting boards showed that 101 votes were cast against the proposals and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 03.21.45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7317	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7322	There's a couple that went wrong. – Then we change the voting result, so we get it right. The Green Party's proposals were then rejected by 103 votes to 1 vote. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is calling for a halt to the growth of the farming industry until the industry’s environmental challenges are solved, and for an ambitious strategy for technology, research and development to be pursued by 2020, in cooperation with industry.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7359	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Henry Blattmann on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that shark products imported have complete and verifiable species information.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that shark products imported have complete and verifiable information on the method, location, date and time of capture.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7392	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to ensure stricter regulation of imports of products from sharks in order to stop imports of illegal shark products into Norway.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. This is where it can get sharp.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7425	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Ove Trellevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for strengthening the per-million-mile limit for recreational craft to 0,2.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7454	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the Government during 2015 to reduce accidents caused by overspeeding boats, including measures to lower the maximum power threshold without the boat driver test, speed limitations without the boat driver test and a new certification scheme for boat drivers capable of achieving higher speeds.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7471	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 47 for recreational craft and small craft, Section 23 a shall be replaced by the following: § 23 a Use of suitable floating equipment on boardIn a recreational boat of less than eight metres in length, persons under the age of 16 shall wear suitable floating equipment for outdoor stays in the boat when the boat is in service. The king may provide for derogations from the requirement of the first subparagraph, including in situations where safety is generally ensured otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7533	The president recalls that it is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left that are behind the vote. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The President further assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against. – This is therefore a very sharp voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7550	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7561	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7587	In the course of the debate, four motions have been put forward, tabled by Mr Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify the curriculum goal of fitness in line with professional advice.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national action plan to ensure that the training is carried out with good quality, so that one reaches the curriculum goal.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the school owner cannot complete the symmetry training until all those who are in charge of it reach the objectives of the curriculum.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of State guarantee schemes and interest-rate compensation schemes for school buildings and symmetry facilities so that rehabilitation and construction of symmetry facilities is prioritised in the municipalities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7637	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Giske on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more intensive efforts to combat bullying and promoting new measures to strengthen the fight against bullying. The Government is asked to consider whether the legal protection of victims of bullying needs to be strengthened and to come back with any proposals that effectively strengthen the legal protection of victims of bullying.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7696	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7706	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7715	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/Europeans 5, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Greens' Greens' Party and the Center Party's proposal No. 6, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 7 and 8, by Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 9-11, by Ingunn Gjerstad, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 12–15, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–15, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Norwegian Government to notify the United Nations Convention on Climate Change that greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory should be maximum. Twenty million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2030.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to notify as an additional obligation to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change that Norwegian oil and gas activities should be phased over a 20-year period.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘As a Norwegian additional obligation, the Government is asked to notify the United Nations Convention on Climate Change that the State pension fund abroad is to be used as an active climate policy tool and that by 2020 the fund is to withdraw from all investments in fossil energy.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to notify the United Nations Convention on Climate Change as an additional obligation that Norway should transfer at least 1 pst. of gross national income for international climate action by 2020.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7771	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norway assumes an obligation not to exceed 25 million tonnes of Norwegian emissions in 2030, a 50 % reduction compared to 1990.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a separate target for Norway’s contribution to financing emission reductions and climate adaptation in developing countries by 2030. This objective must be communicated to the UN in line with the target for reductions in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. This will make it clear that Norway will take the responsibility of our historical emissions and our financial capacity.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Government to step up support for climate change mitigation and adaptation in poor countries with 4 billion. until 2020, and in addition to the ordinary assistance budgets of 1 per cent of GNI for assistance.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7798	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking Norway as a strategic target by 2030 to be the world leader in the development and deployment of zero-emission technologies in maritime transport.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norway initiates an international Convention on the Taxation of Carbon in International Aviation and Maritime Affairs. The money should be part of the UN Green Climate Fund for Climate Action and Climate Adaptation in poor countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7820	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the mandate of Enova to support projects for the capture and storage of CO2 in cooperation with Gassnova.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7840	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to step up the allocations to the Climate Change Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion in the annual budgets, so that in 2017 the fund amounts to 100 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7857	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with a national emission reduction plan towards 2030 as soon as possible after ‘Paris 2015’ and before the summer of 2016.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big step forward on climate policy, which contains a comprehensive and well-worked plan on how the 2030 targets will contribute to long-term climate-friendly migration in Norway, including targets for emission reductions in non-quota sectors.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a case concerning the development of the capture and storage of CO2 from Norwegian industrial emissions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the instrument for technology development in Norwegian industry to be reviewed by the government and to ensure that it is designed in such a way that the target of low and zero emission technologies in all industries can be achieved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7908	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 2, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a climate legislation containing targets for domestic emissions in 2030 and 2050 measured in tonnes of CO2 equivalent and stating that the government is obliged to submit national and sectoral carbon budgets.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7949	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7969	Here it is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party that are behind the vote. The President then assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left want to vote against. – This is therefore a very sharp voting. The vote boards showed that 52 votes were cast for the vote, III and 51 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 03.35.35]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7980	We're 104 representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e7985	Yeah, it's 104, and it's just 103 that have voted. Let's do the voting one more time. At least we have to make sure that we've tried to do it right. The President takes it up again, that is, who is behind the vote, who is going to vote for, and who is going to vote against. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind the vote. The President then assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left want to vote against. - Tighten up the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e8002	Proposal No. shall now be put to the vote. Two, from the left. The President shall draw attention to the fact that the proposal has been submitted after the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The President has reason to believe that the Storting will nevertheless address the proposal. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Right and the Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report in the annual budgets on how Norway can achieve the climate targets for 2020, 2030 and until 2050 and on how the budget affects Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e8043	The president pointed out that the representative Ola Elvestuen has corrected an incursion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e8063	In the case of cases No. 14–21, is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative acts 45 to 52. There are no comments on any of these issues. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-24.ana.ud2153e8068	The map of the day is then finished. The president wants everyone a short and really good night. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not. The meeting has been cancelled.
