ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e57	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e60	On behalf of Karin Andersen and myself, I will present proposals on human rights in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e65	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e68	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to secure a pension by privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e73	The representative, Mrs Arnstad, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e76	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Anders Tyvand and myself, I will make a proposal for a stronger state commitment to the maintenance of worthy churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e97	I thank you for this opportunity to inform the Great Britain about the situation in the Mediterranean and the humanitarian crises in Syria and Iraq. In addition, I would like to invite the Storting to a process on the three key challenges I address in this presentation. There are human tragedies of dramatic dimensions in the Mediterranean these days. More than 1,750 people were afraid of losing their lives in boat accidents outside Libya this year. It is estimated that some 3,200 people drowned on their way across the Mediterranean to Europe last year. We are all affected by the pictures we see from the Mediterranean, the image of the fisherman in Greece who carried a small child ashore who had drowned, the pictures of boats full of people who have gone out on a dangerous journey. And we're affected by the simple stories we hear, like Somali sportsman Sami Yusuf Omar, who drowned in the Mediterranean on his way to fulfill his dream of running in London-OL. We are affected by them as fellow humans, but we are also affected because Norway is a maritime nation and a major humanitarian player. That is why we also have a responsibility to act. Norway contributes significantly — both in the Mediterranean and in the surrounding areas. Among other things, we have We are now sending a ship to participate in the EU operation in the Mediterranean. The sum of what we contribute will save lives and relieve distress. However, it must also be emphasised that this is a complex crisis, which requires broad cooperation and interaction, not least with the EU. The crisis in the Mediterranean is linked to the humanitarian crisis in Syria, as well as a number of other conflict and emergency situations in the Middle East and Africa. We must not simplify the situation in the Mediterranean. It is a complex situation in which a mixed group of people, both migrants and refugees, leave their homeland. Many refugees from war and conflict. Others try to leave a life of poverty and seek a better life for themselves and their families. Not since World War II has so many people in the world been on the run. Last year, the UN estimated 40 pst. by those who go out on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean, come from Eritrea and Syria. So far this year, most have come from the Gambia and Senegal, followed by Somalia, Syria and Mali. But this changes from year to year and from month to month. However, the trend is clear: more and more people are trying to get to Europe. The Mediterranean brings Africa, the Middle East and Europe together. Most of the boats that are currently heading towards Europe start off on Libya’s coast. Today's conflict and government vacuum in Libya provides room for criminal networks and traffickers. Today’s conflict also means that many foreign workers and migrants are stranded in Libya and see no other way to cross the Mediterranean. Working for a political solution to the conflict in Libya is therefore important. Regional and external actors must jointly support moderate forces on both sides. At the same time, we must not forget that there are other routes to Europe, such as: go via Spain and Greece. Here, too, is the dangerous journeys and the great darkness. The situation in the Sahel region of North Africa is characterised by a combination of extreme poverty, a lack of future prospects for a rapidly growing young population and weak authority control over large rural areas. This helps to increase migration, while at the same time giving organised crime, smuggling and terrorism a great deal of leeway. Long-term ethnic contradictions contribute to strengthening instability and uncertainty. Crime, terrorism, extremism and violent rebellion can be mutually reinforcing. In the face of these complex crises, Norway is taking responsibility with the United Nations system and the EU. Norwegian ships and seafarers and Norwegian relief organisations are making and have made a formidable effort in the Mediterranean. They've saved a lot of lives. According to the Shipowners’ Association, Norwegian registered and Norwegian controlled ships participated in about 30 rescue operations in the Mediterranean in 2014. These helped to save about 5,000 people. Overall, commercial shipping saved about 42,000 people on the way across the Mediterranean last year. This work is demanding, but it goes into a long Norwegian tradition of good seafaring. I want to commend the efforts they have made. The commitment we've seen from shipowners, from the Rescue Company and from other non-governmental organisations lately needs recognition. It is positive that so many want to contribute by offering ships or other support. Many non-governmental organisations face these humanitarian crises. The government highly values the cooperation with Norwegian organisations. They do an invaluable job of helping, and of drawing attention to the crises. Possible contributions from the Rescue Company will be offered to Frontex today. It is important that the efforts we make are well coordinated with other international actions. The EU has a shared responsibility in this effort. We in Norway will take our share of responsibility. We already contribute with Frontex staff its joint operations in the Mediterranean. We are a major contributor to the funding of Frontex. The Government will increase contributions to Frontex and other relevant Mediterranean actions in the revised national budget. The government is now strengthening Norwegian efforts in the Mediterranean by sending a ship and crew to the civil border control operation Triton. We have offered Frontex a vessel as soon as the EU needs it. We started the dialogue with the EU before the tragedies of the last weeks, as there were still few countries that contributed to Triton. In the current operation Frontex signaled that they were missing ships from 1 August, but in the dialogue with the EU we have now accelerated the contribution to set up as quickly as possible. The invitation to submit offers on ships has been issued, the deadline has been set to Monday 4 May. The Ministry of Defence and Defence are assisting the Ministry of Justice and Defence in assessing quickly what offers they want to make. The ship must have the appropriate characteristics to perform tasks such as border control and support in search and rescue operations. We are manning the civil ship with personnel with medical competence and with police and defence personnel. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence are well in the process of recruiting that staff. Triton is a border control operation, but in reality they also have search and rescue operations within the defined Triton operating range. Among other things, the Icelandic Coast Guard ship ‘Tyr’ operated in Libya’s search and rescue area during several rescue operations. More ships to Triton will mean increased capacity. A Norwegian seagoing ship will be one of the most comprehensive single contributions in Triton so far. It will undoubtedly help save lives. The government would point out to the EU that Triton must have the capacity, mandate and scope of operation necessary to save life in the Mediterranean Sea. Furthermore, we will contribute to better control of persons entering the Schengen area. Migrants taken care of at sea will land in Italy or Malta for further care and control procedures. It is important to distinguish between those who have a real need for protection and other migrants. The need for protection determines who is allowed to stay in Norway. We also need to work together to ensure the return of those who do not have protection requirements in a safe and effective way. This is important for example: to maintain confidence in the institution of asylum. Our cooperation with the EU is an important part of the Norwegian response to the Mediterranean crisis. As a Schengen country, we are directly affected by the EU's handling of migration challenges. Europe's troubled neighbourhood is our neighborhood. The Mediterranean is our frontier sea. Norwegian migration policy is strongly influenced by European cooperation in the field, both inside and outside Schengen. There is a need for stronger European coordination here. I am therefore pleased that the European Union is now putting the situation in the Mediterranean high on its political agenda. Last week, the EU Summit of Heads of State or Government was held. The Heads of State agreed on a tripling of funds for two operations: Triton, outside Italy and Malta, and Poseidon, outside Greece. It's positive, and it's necessary. EU leaders agreed to strengthen the presence at sea, combat trafficking in human beings, prevent illegal migration flows and better allocate responsibilities. I think this is important. It is a pan-European responsibility, and it is important that the external countries of Schengen do not remain on their own with the challenges. I sent a letter last week to the EU Presidents expressing that Norway wants an even closer cooperation with the EU in this matter. Our contribution to a seagoing ship has been well received, and Norway is ready to contribute more. We have also contributed to the task force Task Force Mediterranean, which was established after the accident at Lampedusa in October 2013. We will have a dialogue with the EU in the future on what further measures can remedy the situation. Furthermore, we also contribute through the EEA funds. Greece has had large influxes of migrants. Twenty-one million. EUR of EEA funds allocated to the country has been used to strengthen asylum procedures and other migration measures. Strengthening support for migration measures in the next period may be relevant for EEA funds. Norway also participates in the EU regional development and protection programme and contributes to measures for Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. We also need to take a holistic view of this challenge and address the underlying causes. We focus on addressing the fundamental causes of refugees and migration through support for development and economic growth, through targeted work to strengthen respect for human rights and through peace and reconciliation work. Development and poverty reduction are essential for people to find a way of life and to feel that they have a future in their own country. We therefore see migration in the context of development cooperation in central countries of origin, several of which are among the government's focus countries for development cooperation, such as Somalia and Mali. Both here and in other countries in Africa and the Middle East, we use long-term development assistance to help stabilise the region, through support for inclusive policy processes, health and education and economic development. In Somalia, this includes, for example: support for reconstruction, good governance, capacity building, the prevention of humanitarian disasters and peace and reconciliation. In Mali we have, among other things: focus on education, health, local democracy and the strengthening of human rights, including women's rights, and we actively support the peace process in the country. The government has also strengthened its commitment to the Sahel area in other respects. In meeting the challenges in Sahel, we need to do more together with others – such as the EU, the UN and the African Union. It's a common international responsibility. In recent years, we have been working to make African countries and the African Union more involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings and irregular migration. Work is coming out of our support for the African Union and for the four African countries of Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia and Eritrea to combat trafficking in human beings. It is important that African countries participate in this cooperation with Europe. The situation in Eritrea has led to a massive migration from the country, which has been increasing in recent years. Eritreans are now one of the largest groups that cross the Mediterranean. We have also received many asylum seekers from Eritrea in Norway. In 2013, 3 260 arrived in Norway, and in 2014 2 900 arrived. Human traffickers send migrants into the open sea, in crowded and unstable boats, often without enough fuel to reach Italy. It must be small enough for such craft to overturn or sink. When I visited the Italian coastguard last year, I got a description of how human traffickers send skirting boats out to the Mediterranean, equipped only with a telephone number for the Italian coastguard, with a message to call them as soon as the boat was outside Libyan territorial waters. Many of the boats were in far too poor condition to make their way to Europe. It was a story about cynical human traffickers who take advantage of people in a vulnerable situation in the most serious way. Since then, the situation has worsened further. The crossing of the Mediterranean Sea is often the last stage of a dangerous journey. We don't know how many people die in Sahara or in the desert in Sudan or Libya. Norway is funding information campaigns in countries of transit and origin to raise awareness of the dangers of illegal migration. We have campaigns in Somalia and Sudan just to prevent migration further. As an alternative to the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean, we also support programmes in the region that offer return and reintegration in the home country. Still, a lot of people leave. We know that criminal networks make a lot of money on the trafficking routes. According to a UN report, Libyan human smuggling was worth $170 million last year. These networks also often smuggle drugs and weapons, and they become increasingly professional. Many of those smuggled are subjected to assault, forced labor, and slave-like conditions. Several people are also being kidnapped against the payment of ransoms. The smuggling hits the victims in the first row. At the same time, the proceeds of smuggling can help finance militias and terrorist organisations in Sahel and North Africa. In addition to playing a crucial role in smuggling people across the Mediterranean, they are involved in destabilising already weak countries. That is why this is also a security policy challenge. In June, the Government will present a Communication to the EEAS on global security challenges. The Communication places great emphasis on how organised crime weakens countries and how it finances terrorist and insurgent groups. We need to put in place targeted action against criminal networks. We focus on prevention, but also increased and fueled efforts against organised crime in intelligence, police and justice. Organisations such as Interpol, Europol and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime are particularly relevant. Support for UNODC’s broad work on organised crime is increasing from 26 to 40 million. kr already this year. In the Single European Act, the government will propose the establishment of an assistance programme against organised crime. In total, this means a significant strengthening of the contribution to international work against organised crime. In the Middle East, we see a region characterized by conflict, instability, lawlessness and regime collapse in several countries. The region is also characterised by deep political and religious contradictions. We see this in countries like Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen. There is a very demanding situation for the world community to deal with, and there is no immediate solution to these challenges. The civil war in Syria has led to one of the greatest humanitarian crises we have seen since World War II, and the conflict is now within its fifth year. What started as demonstrations of democracy and freedom has evolved into a war situation in which a brutal regime fights against a divided armed opposition. The situation is further complicated because regional actors still see themselves serving to use Syria as the arena to promote their own interests. Although the UN Special Envoy for Syria is working to get the conflict on a political path, the lack of action on the part of the UN Security Council has contributed to the fact that we are still far from finding a solution. Since the conflict in Syria broke out in 2011, more than four million have fled to neighbouring countries and to Egypt. 7.6 million are internally displaced. The majority of the remaining population in Syria, a total of 12.2 million, depend on humanitarian aid. Many of these are located in areas where relief organisations have little or no access. The civilian population is trapped between a regime that bombs residential areas, schools and hospitals, and a variety of armed groups, such as the United States and Japan. ISIL, who commits assault, executes, abuses and disperses minorities. The conflict in Syria further creates a vacuum of power that gave ISIL the room to grow in Syria and Iraq. The conquest of ISIL by large parts of western and central Iraq has created a humanitarian and political crisis. The situation in Syria and Iraq therefore threatens stability throughout the region. Foreign warriors, combined with ISIL's expansion and alliance construction, are an increasing threat, even in other parts of the world. In Iraq, the Norwegian military training contribution to the international coalition will soon be in place. This year the United Nations has asked the world to contribute 59 billion dollars. to meet the humanitarian needs of Syria and neighbouring countries. Only 16 pst. of the United Nations appeal for Syria is covered so far this year. Increased contributions are absolutely necessary. We are living in a time of great pressure on the humanitarian budgets. The government has systematically prioritised increasing humanitarian aid appropriations since its accession. In the 2015 budget, we increased the appropriations by nearly half a billion dollars. Norway is responsible for helping to alleviate the humanitarian situation of refugees and the rest of the civilian population in Syria. Norway is already one of the biggest donors of the Syria crisis. We are the seventh largest national donor in absolute numbers and the second largest donor per capita. Only Kuwait gives more to the crisis. In the revised national budget, the government will increase support for humanitarian and development activities in Syria and neighbouring countries by 250 million. kr, so that the total Norwegian aid amounts to 1 billion. kr. Support includes: for food, health, shelter, education, water and sanitary services. By the end of 2015, Norway will have contributed nearly 3 billion. aid to Syria and the region since the start of the civil war. With the new increase, for example, we can help 250,000 people with food support and emergency aid inside Syria through the Red Cross and Red Crescent for a whole year, or provide 125 000 people with food support in Syria’s neighbouring country, or provide 53,000 children and young people in Lebanon, or we can provide Syrian refugees in host communities, for example. Jordan and Egypt full support for one year. Our common goal must be to help as much as possible with the efforts we make. This means that we accept many Syrian refugees to Norway, but our efforts reach even more through the assistance we provide in Syria's neighbourhoods, where the vast majority of the refugees are located. At the same time, the refugee crisis is a huge burden on the region. Apart from Iraq, the situation is particularly serious in Jordan and Lebanon, where every fourth population is now acid. In Lebanon and Jordan, Norwegian funds are also used, among others. ensuring shelter and schooling. The children are Syria's future, but also those who are hardest hit by the conflict. At least 150 million. Therefore, kr shall be allocated to education and protection measures for children. In Iraq, more than 5 million people need emergency aid. At least 2.7 million are internally displaced. Refugee patterns follow the picture of conflict. Only in the last two weeks have 114 000 people fled the Ramadi area as a result of the ISIL offensive there. The humanitarian approach to ISIL-controlled areas is very limited. That is why humanitarian efforts are also divided. It is essential that the humanitarian response to Iraq also reaches the maximum possible level. We've put in 120 million. kr for humanitarian contributions in Iraq this year. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees provides assistance and protection for both refugees crossing borders and internally displaced persons in Syria. The most vulnerable and vulnerable group is the internal refugees in Syria. That is where the needs are greatest, and that is where the High Commissioner has the worst budget coverage. As part of our humanitarian aid to Syria, the government has decided to set aside at least 130 million. D to the work of the High Commissioner in Syria and to refugees in neighbouring countries this year. Last week we strengthened our humanitarian effort by 50 million. to further contribute to the prevention of human exposure to the dangerous Mediterranean voyage. The support is channelled through the High Commissioner, the Refugee Aid and the International Organization for Migration, the IOM. It will thus compliment the humanitarian aid we already provide in Sahel and in the Horn of Africa, as well as Syria and neighbouring countries. Helping vulnerable groups is at the heart of Norwegian humanitarian aid. We're going to take our share of the responsibility for protecting people who need it. The High Commissioner has asked the international community to accept 30,000 Syrian refugees in the years 2013 and 2014 and another 100,000 Syrian refugees in the years 2015 and 2016. Acceptance of 86 000 has been promised. An additional 44 000 refugees are still needed to achieve the target. Few countries have pledged for 2016 yet, but it is clear that the need is significantly better than the need for humanitarian aid in Syria and its neighbourhoods. Norway was one of the countries in Europe that received the most quota refugees from Syria last year — about 1 000. Under the 2015 budget agreement, the Stortinget has decided to accept 1 500 quota refugees from Syria, and Norway is with it among the countries transferring most Syrian refugees. In February, the first 500 refugees were selected. Work continues in close cooperation with the High Commissioner. In this respect, I would like to stress that, in line with the additional agreement on the asylum and immigration field with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government has doubled the number of quota refugees with special medical needs from 2014 to 2015. It is difficult to help this group in the neighbourhoods, and therefore this has been an important priority for the government. In the revised national budget, the government will triple the number of quota refugees with special medical needs in 2015 compared to 2014. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has today asked the Health Directorate to assess how Norway can contribute to enhanced health assistance to refugees from Syria both in Lebanon and Jordan, and possibly also in Norway. In the debate on how many quota refugees Norway will receive, we need to ask ourselves two important questions: Is receiving more refugees to Norway the most important thing we can now do to help the Syrian population escape? And how many refugees will Norwegian municipalities be able to live in the time to come? Firstly, the costs of the housing of 1000 refugees have been estimated at about one billion dollars over a five-year period. This means that instead of settling one refugee in Norway, we could help 14 refugees in camps or 27 refugees outside camps in the region. This is not an exact size, but it gives an indication of the difference in resource use. This means that we need to discuss whether it is right to increase the number of quota refugees or whether we should give priority to helping even more war-torn families in a different way. On the second question relating to housing: This year more than 13,300 refugees need to be settled in Norway, and municipalities have reported that they can accommodate 8,100 refugees. Unless the municipalities are willing to settle more people, at the end of the year there will be 6,800 refugees with a residence permit in reception waiting for their residence, and thus waiting to start their new life. About 1 000 of these asylum seekers are from Syria. Should we start next year with such a huge aftermath, there will be a need in 2016 to settle more than 14,000 refugees, including transfer refugees. I would like to stress that an increase in the quota in that case will be in addition to these numbers. The municipalities have shown a lack of suitable housing, a lack of capacity in the introduction programme and a lack of integration grants as a reason for not having more refugees. The government has listened to this and has therefore strengthened the ability of municipalities to settle the high number of refugees who are already waiting for reception. The integration grant for lone adults has increased from NOK 666 800 to NOK 717 600 in 2014 and further to NOK 746 200 in 2015. The grant shall be paid over five years. On the government side, we have increased the integration grant by 300 million. kr since we joined. In addition, municipalities receive a separate grant for training in Norwegian and community knowledge for adult immigrants. We have also increased the grant from the House Bank to rental properties in our period. The commitment framework has increased by a total of 180 million. kr. This means that commitments can be made to approximately 1,200 more rental homes. In order to contribute to increased settlement, the government of the revised national budget will come back with measures that will increase the number of rental dwellings. In a situation where municipalities do not settle enough refugees to meet the need, a significant increase in the number of transfer refugees will lead to a significant increase in the waiting time for refugees to settle from reception. Today, the average waiting time between decisions on residence and residence is more than nine months, which is already well above the objective of all to be settled within six months. As the situation in Syria and its neighbourhoods is today, it is difficult to imagine Norway being able to offer temporary collective protection to refugees from Syria, as we did for the refugees from Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo during the wars there. For the Kosovar, the situation in the country of origin was resolved quickly, and for many, temporaryity was decided upon when implemented. For the Bosnians, the conflict continued for so long that the provisional authorisations were made permanent. The same will most likely be the situation of Syrian refugees. The conflict has already been going on for five years. Therefore, they will need a permanent settlement solution in Norway and should be treated as ordinary allowance refugees. The relationship with Norway, for example illustrated by the situation of long-term asylum seekers, shows that a temporary residence solution will be demanding. If the Syrian refugees come to Norway, they must have the opportunity to be integrated, have rights as refugees, and participate in our society. They are likely to remain in Norway on a permanent basis. There is an ongoing dialogue between the State and the municipalities on the framework conditions and on what is needed to enable municipalities to settle even more refugees. In order to provide a decision-making basis on whether to receive more quota refugees from Norway, Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Solveig Horne sent a letter to all municipalities last week to investigate whether municipalities have the opportunity to further increase their settlement capacity in 2015 and 2016. She has asked for an answer by 27 May, i.e. in a button month. This information will be important in deciding at national level how Norway should contribute. The government has asked the municipalities for information on how many additional refugees they can take. We meet all the contributions from the parties at Stortinget to make a faster settlement in the municipalities. We must not underestimate the complexity of the challenges we see. Norway, of course, cannot solve this alone. It is therefore important that more countries increase their efforts. At the same time, we need to step up our cooperation with, among other things. EU. The extent of the tragedy in the Mediterranean shows that measures such as Frontex’s operations, enhanced border control and resettlement in Europe for some can remedy something. The people of the Mediterranean are concerned and affect us all. The government will have a broad approach in further work. We will continue the good cooperation with the volunteer organisations. We want to fight human smuggling and organized crime. We will assist with ships and are open to other efforts that can help save lives in the Mediterranean. We will continue to strengthen humanitarian efforts, and we will now give a total of 1 billion. humanitarian and development activities in Syria and neighbouring countries this year. We will contribute to Iraq. We are working on long-term support for development, against the underlying causes of migration and migration. We do so in close partnership with other countries. We want to ensure that the asylum institution takes care of those who are under persecution and that those who do not have a need for protection are returned to their country of origin. Tragics in the world are great. This statement has referred to some of them. Against this background, the government will invite the Stortinget to a process related to the treatment of the revised national budget related to the three key challenges I have addressed in this statement: Norway’s contribution to the Mediterranean crisis, the need for more emergency assistance to Syria and the neighbourhoods and the level of ambition for the reception of quota refugees in 2016. Our goal is to find solutions to these challenges that can provide a basis for broad political support.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e235	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post from each party of up to 5 minutes and with a final statement from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e240	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough, thorough and informed statement. There were answers to many of the questions that Stortinget wanted to answer, and it provides a good basis for the debate here in the Chamber. I will also join the measures notified by the Prime Minister. We're given the opportunity to discuss them more closely at crossroads that come, but I think it gave a broad overview. We can agree that there is now a drama, collapse and disaster, in Syria, with terrible effects in the Mediterranean. The image of this three-year-old boy to whom the Prime Minister refers hits this tragedy: Where was he going, what life was lost, maybe he was on his way to us? We can actually go straight to the point in this short comment. What can Norway contribute? The Prime Minister has given a good description of the complexity. How can we help people in need, assist the countries that are burdened with the shortage of their own challenges and reach the top of millions of refugees? There is no simple answer to this, and it goes without saying that Norway is far from able to solve this alone. There must be a great international and European boost here. I would like to add: it is said that the efforts to meet this extraordinary situation require extraordinary action. That's true. But the real challenge is that the extraordinary situation may not be so extraordinary. It will probably last and be something we'll be dealing with for a long time in the future. The Labour Party believes that Norway must take its share of responsibility – not alone, but together with others. This means that we should support good and coordinated international action with the UN, the EU and the most experienced aid organisations, and that means that we recognise that efforts are needed in several areas. The Prime Minister was in on most people. More efficient rescue capacity needs to be deployed in the Mediterranean Sea. Norway should contribute – that is good – to both search and rescue and the EU border control plan. This is our outer border, like the other countries of Europe. The measures the Prime Minister has announced are heading in the right direction. Cooperation is needed to combat traffickers and international crime with international organisations. It is necessary to provide targeted support to assist the many refugees in the region where they are located, and there I agree with the Prime Minister when she announces increased Norwegian effort, plus 250 million. kr. I believe this we now see in the world, travelling the discussion about our aid budget is properly arranged. That's 32 billion. kr we are using for assistance, and I am asking myself whether the emergency aid section and the humanitarian aid section have become too small over the years. We should get back to this. It is then necessary to develop much better cooperation between European countries in the field of asylum and refugee policy in Europe, and I fully agree with that. Then I would like to comment on the support of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Norway has a tradition of supporting this organisation in its budget and operations. That is good, and it must continue, and I would like to stress the importance of Norway holding on to the important role of being a supporter of the High Commissioner. He is the most important protector of vulnerable people. Then we believe that, as part of the whole, it must be opened up for Norway to accept more people for protection in our country. There's going to be a crazy debate, I mean, to set up against each other how many we can help in the region, against the number coming to Norway. There are two completely different issues. Taking the sum it costs for a refugee in Norway and dividing by how many can get water, blankets and shelters abroad becomes a crazy comparison. Four million people are fleeing Syria to neighbouring countries. The High Commissioner says that a magazine part of them, 400,000, needs to be resettled. And let me just stress this: 600,000 people applied for asylum in Europe last year. There was one per 1,000 in Europe. In Lebanon and Jordan, there is now one refugee per four inhabitants, so that relieving the refugee situation with a contribution from Norway helps to prevent the total collapse, which in turn can create even greater challenges for us. I'm listening to the Prime Minister who opens up dialogue about the three dimensions she had in her presentation. We'll accept that invitation. We believe this requires a good deal when we grant money for emergency aid in the region, that's taxpayers' money. Work with municipalities is required, and efforts are required when people and organisations in the community make it practical to accept and live. Yesterday, the local government in Tromsø decided that Tromsø would receive refugees from Syria, one per 1,000 inhabitants, it would be 70. Then we're on our way in that dungeon, and we look forward to it, and we want to contribute to a broad settlement, where everyone contributes and where everyone contributes to Norway's ability to live up to the reputation and responsibility we have as a rich and protected country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e261	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good and broad presentation. Norway's position as a maritime force has often given us an important position in international crisis situations. There is a long and strong line in the way Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping have been involved in taking responsibility under crises, whether to provide supplies or to provide direct assistance to people on the run. In addition, there is no doubt that Norway is also considered to be a major power when it comes to humanitarian action in crisis areas. It's kind of a little country in a big world. We will always be dependent on the support of others if anything should happen to us, so we will always stand still when the crisis strikes others, whether it's in our neighbourhoods or it's in remote areas. As the Prime Minister explained, we are all strongly affected by the images shown by the major disasters that occur in Syria and Iraq. Even I was with the municipal committee on a trip in the previous period. We were to visit refugee camps in three quiet countries in the Middle East, Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon. We were in Syria three weeks before the war broke loose. It was considered to be the safest country in the region. I often think of the beautiful walk we had through the old town of Damascus, when we see the pictures from Syria today. This is something that characterizes us all, and once you've been there and seen it and experienced it just before it happens, you get extra affected by what happens. There are many who need help, it has been well described by the Prime Minister. There are many who need help, and there are many who unfortunately are also exposed to human smuggling, who are desperate, and who become an easy prey for criminals. There is no doubt that Norway is facing people in a difficult situation, and we have always done so, and we are going to do so. As before, when demanding matters become major disasters as they are now, we in Norway will always go as far as we can to help as many as we can. That is why I am also pleased that it is invited, and that it is being discussed, to find broad political settlements related to this difficult situation, in the neighbourhoods, and that there is also a discussion about how Norwegian municipalities can be better able to accept even more refugees. I would like to stress that Norwegian municipalities have done a great job. They have resided in more refugees and asylum seekers last year than they have ever done. They do their utmost, the integration grant is increased, there is a large programme to be implemented, and there are major challenges to it. But now an appeal has been sent to the municipalities to give feedback on how many people you can receive. Then we also have to look at the numbers that the municipalities come with. It is good that the municipalities now decide to accept more, but the important thing is, of course, that those who come are also given a good offer. In the meantime, we're sending ships to the Mediterranean. The rescue company has also said that they want to assist. It's fabulous. We are increasing emergency aid, we are increasing humanitarian aid and we are participating in EU operations. I am attending further discussions on this issue. The government will present the entire package in revised form. There are a few weeks until it comes, but anyway, it is important that there is already a clear signal from the Storting that we are willing to help, and that we are willing to assist.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e278	First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister who took the initiative to get to the Stortinget and give the presentation we just received, and through it invite to discuss and cooperate with what we now see happening. It was a very good and thorough account that took care of many areas. It's quite clear, when you see part of the debate that's out there, that it's very often also a certain mix of the different conflicts and problems that we see. We talk very often – unfortunately – about the situation that we see outside Lampedusa and Sicilia and across to Libya, in many ways as if it were the same as when we look at Syria and what is happening over there. It's a little bit important that we see what's happening, the situations, a little bit independent of each other, also based on the tools that we're going to do. We are all affected by the images we see of people drowning in the Mediterranean. We're all affected when we see children, women and adults who can't get to the other side, as they try. I think we all sit here, fully understand that these are people who are in great need, who really want to get help, and who use all the tools that are needed to get out of this difficult situation. Norway takes its responsibility. Norway’s government has repeatedly been involved and contributed, and the Prime Minister has just given an overview of further measures that it wants to take. The rescue companies have also said that they want to contribute. Yesterday I met with the Swedish Shipowners' Association, and they are doing their part of the job to provide a ship that can be used for this operation, as part of the Triton – that is, the border control that is there – but of course also: The Law of the Sea says that we should operate both search and rescue as part of the operation that is there. It's very important, and it's an important signal to send. We're also going to include that every eight boat refugees picked up by a civil ship are picked up by a Norwegian ship. Norway is a giant in the seven seas, and civil shipping contributes and contributes every day in these situations. We have to keep doing that. But it's also very important that you do a job to get these backers and the human smugglers who run their cynical game to make money on the human fortunes we see. As far as the Syrian conflict is concerned, there is nothing to suggest that this is a short-term conflict. The same is true of the ISIS's mercies and inhuman appearances that we see in the other countries of the region. Norway has repeatedly participated and contributed. We have contributed to the government's and Storting's appropriations, and now, as we heard in the Prime Minister's presentation, we now want to increase this contribution to 1 billion. NOK, which is an additional 250 million. kr. It is important that, through the revised national budget, we now receive a good package of measures – actions that we see work, measures that work widely. But we, as a magnificence and as a granting authority, have at any time to assess where we get the most back for the taxpayers' money spent on helping in these conflicts. We cannot ignore the fact that we use the money locally, internally in Syria, can help 25 times more than if we take one person to Norway. So per thousand we can help 25 000 internally, or 14 per person in the neighbourhoods. We have to evaluate this, and the Progress Party has said that we want to help as much as possible. That must be what must be our guide now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e295	I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister very much for a very good and thorough presentation. She explains very well the background – I also want to say complexity – in the case that we are now discussing. There will be many measures that I can fully agree to. I would also like to thank you for the process to which the Prime Minister himself invites. 2014 has been a demanding year on the international arena. 2015 has followed in the same path, but we see even more clearly the consequences of what has actually happened in recent years. We have four humanitarian crises at level 3 in the world now. That is the highest level in the United Nations for humanitarian crises. After the Second World War, we haven't had that many. It is the Central African Republic, South Sudan, Syria and Iraq. The aftermaths of the Arab Spring, in which we got popular uprisings against authoritarian regimes, have also resulted in me now seeing many internal conflicts just between old authoritarian regimes, Islamic armed groups and liberal, democratic opposition forces. An example of it having been raked is Libya. In Yemen, we have a civil war. Right now we feel that people from Yemen are fleeing to Somalia. And when it comes to Syria, I can only refer to what the Prime Minister said in his statement. In Nigeria, Boko Haram operates in parts of the area. Thus, in 2014–2015 we have a situation of greater unrest and more conflicts than in a long time, and we have the most demanding refugee situation after the Second World War. This is the Christian People's Party concerned, and therefore we have also had an engagement. Already in the fall, we were committed to increasing humanitarian aid, general assistance and a greater commitment. We proposed doubling the number of quota refugees, and we also addressed the situation in the Mediterranean. What we see happening in the Mediterranean now is that at the intersection of a prosperous Europe, a poor Africa and a troubled Middle East now is a tragedy. It reflects both war and conflict, but also poverty: people dreaming of a new life, with security in Europe. It is a challenge that Europe must take – and it is particularly important that we challenge the EU in this regard. It is not only the more difficult countries in southern Europe to take responsibility for it. I believe that the clear signal from Norway to the EU and Europe should be that we cannot only protect our external borders. Europe must take a humanitarian responsibility to save lives. We must help to prevent the need for peaceful conflict resolution and social and economic development. It's both a short-term and a long-term challenge. We therefore support initiatives in the Mediterranean. Norway shall set up Norwegian ships. I think we can contribute further, just like the maritime power that we are. The Christian People's Party has said in the past that we want to increase the number of quota refugees. I'm glad that the work that's now being done in the vicinity is being increased and prioritised. And that's where we help most of the heads. But what we can't ignore is that the capacity in the vicinity is now detonated. That is why accepting several refugees is also a responsibility in Norway – but also in Europe together. The Christian People's Party is ready to participate in further discussions. We are pleased with the invitation that has come and we think the decision the Prime Minister has given here, facilitate good conversations to look at the soundness of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e316	Let me also praise the Prime Minister for a broad and thorough explanation of the problem. There is no doubt that the humanitarian situation close to Europe's borders, and also the refugee situation, is more serious than it has ever been since World War II. As the Prime Minister stated in the statement, the reasons for this are complex. There's war, there's need, there's civil war, there's states breaking down -- there's at least some of the answers you can see from the situation. It is a difficult and serious humanitarian situation both in the Middle East and in parts of North Africa. Assistance and assistance in the neighbourhoods to prevent people from being forced into a very dangerous journey across the Mediterranean is important, and the Prime Minister drew a broad picture of that situation. Then it's also said that the causes of the escape across the Mediterranean are complex, and the rear players can be cynical. But at the same time, Europe cannot sit still and watch people drown in their desperate attempts to cross the sea. The centre party welcomes the fact that the government is now rapidly preparing ships for the Mediterranean. That's good, and that's important. However, it is also important that we continue to have a debate on the contribution of the ships to be deployed in the Mediterranean. It is important that they not only participate in the EU maritime border control but also actively participate in the rescue work in the wrecks that take place near the Libyan coast. Like other speakers, I will also be allowed to praise the efforts that have been made so far from Norwegian ships and Norwegian shipowners to save lives in the area. I also think it was an important signal from the Prime Minister that a desire to use more long-term development assistance to improve the living conditions of people in many of the African countries now experiencing great migration and refugee challenges. It's also important. I also agree with what the Labour Party leader here says, that it also opens up for us to look at the overall arrangement of Norwegian aid, emergency aid policy and humanitarian aid. It is worrying, as the Prime Minister also said, that so little of the UN's appeal for Syria has been met. It is therefore important and positive that support for the neighbourhoods is also increased from the Norwegian side. We're giving a good deal, but we have the opportunity to contribute more, and to increase the support to 1 billion. kr is absolutely necessary. It's also a position that's going to get the support of the Center Party. There's a lot that you can do about the neighbourhoods, but I want to stress from the Central Party that there's not necessarily any difference between increasing assistance in the neighbourhoods and accepting more refugees here to Norway. In fact, Norwegian society can and should do both. So as efforts in the neighbourhoods escalate, we should also increase our own reception of refugees from Syria. We in the Central Party are open to receive 10,000 Syrian refugees in two to three years. We are aware that it will be demanding, we are aware that it will require a good deal, we are aware that it will require a thorough conversation between the Norwegian State and the Norwegian municipalities responsible for the settlement of refugees. We also believe that it requires a view with a little new eyes – if it is not completely parallel to the 1990s, at least a person can gain some experience from what happened in the 1990s, and use it in such a situation. I feel that the Prime Minister is inviting a dialogue with the Stortinget in the future on all these three elements, both the crisis in the Mediterranean, the efforts in the Middle East neighbourhoods and the reception of Syrian refugees. That's what the Center Party is looking at. We are ready to contribute to a broad dialogue on the reception of refugees and on assistance in the neighbourhood. We believe that Norwegian policy would insist that, in such a serious situation, the political parties in Stortinget will unite on what measures should and can be taken. It will provide both legitimacy and long-term support for the work that Norway needs to do in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e335	I would also like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for a proper and good review of a very serious topic, a serious challenge facing the world as a whole. I am pleased with all the signals that lie in increasing Norwegian contributions to solve the challenges we are facing. I am very grateful that the Prime Minister also opens up that we can sit down together to find a broader consensus on this. This is one of the many things I think it's easier to do with a minority government – you can manage to make good, big agreements also in important areas that not only include those that have an agreement between you. The situation in the world right now is quite extreme. We see the worst refugee disaster since the time Norway learned what the word ‘refuge’ actually meant, the first time we Norwegians also got Norwegian refugees – so far back we need to find something similar to this. We see that there is not only war and conflict, but also other types of hopelessness that make people flee. The left has clearly said that we believe that the efforts we should take part in should also include taking greater responsibility for the refugees. We are very pleased that we have actually managed to double the number of quota refugees with the government in the past, but my national meeting has assessed that we can accept 10,000 on Norwegian soil as well. It takes a municipal effort. It also requires that hard work not only means that the state pays for the hard work, but that you actually have a real hard work. This government, together with us, has increased the support that you get when you settle. This must be a virtue we participate in together, with an commitment that is not just about increasing government money. Then I'll come up with some challenges to the Prime Minister on possible topics that we can discuss when we're going to agree. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has contacted the EU and perceives that the government is in close dialogue with the EU system. I also wish we had contacted the Nordic Prime Ministers to see if we could make a joint effort, a joint initiative, for the responsibility we have to accept, but also for what we can do in the vicinity. Some of the most proud moments last Left were in government, when we made the promise we made for Bosnia and Kosovo. The Prime Minister points out that when we received 8 000 from Kosovo, it was easy to give them temporary status because the war was about to elapse. We also received 13,000 from Bosnia, which was in a completely different situation when they arrived in Norway. I believe that we need to learn from what we did at the time when we actually succeeded in accepting twice what we are talking about now, when we had a war situation in Europe. I also think it is important that we help with the borders, this is also our outer limit, we are members of Schengen. But then we must not only carry on border control, then we must also have the elements that Mare Nostrum had: research on the boat in terms of human smuggling, but also help people first and foremost, not only rule a limit. Then I'm glad of what the Prime Minister said about looking at our health care system. When it comes to looking at the possibility of creating a treatment bridge, especially in relation to Syria, which has so many war and trauma injuries, I think we had a lot to contribute to Norway, yes, it might also have helped to strengthen our health care system that we had participated in such a good thing. Then I think we have to look at legal solutions for those who are driven by hopelessness and not just war. Finally, we went into Libya and took part in that bombing. We chose not to go into Syria or take any military action against that country. We often discuss in this room what we are against, and we can participate in wars to fight what we are against. But we're too bad to discuss what we're for. What is the alternative? What are we actually contributing to as an alternative set of governance? But most importantly, here we – the parties – can sit down together and see if we can reach a broad consensus on an important challenge that we should not make a political game, but a political effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e358	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the presentation and for several positive actions, while using the opportunity to underline a very strong impatience after doing more. I have a greeting to the Prime Minister from our hometown. At Olsvik School, the students were recently to file applications against their dream fund and tell them what they dream of. Kajsa Matthäus of the 9th grade asked to speak to a politician, because she wanted a rustier Norwegian refugee policy. She was shaken by the treatment of asylum-seekers, Syrian refugees and drowning deaths in the Mediterranean. So I went to Olsvik yesterday and promised Kajsa to bring her message to you, and that's that we don't have time to wait. I think what Kajsa did was a little symbol of the great will and the great wish among many in Norway that we should do more right now. Europe's propriety, compassion and our capacity for solidarity have been put to the test. It is positive that Norway is contributing by ship and that it is now happening faster than what was first advertised. On behalf of the SV, I would like to stress the importance that Norway is now putting our forces behind and getting as broad a mandate as possible for these ships. It is true that it is possible, through a rule of exception in Triton, to pursue search and rescue. But it should be search and rescue that was the main rule. By providing ships, Norway can have an opportunity to exercise influence, which we strongly encourage the government to use. We need a massive search and rescue operation in the Mediterranean. New humanitarian appropriations are also good. It underlines the need we have seen for a long time to do more, and is the reason why SV in our state budget proposes 1 billion. to humanitarian aid. The Prime Minister has pointed out many reasons for the refugee disaster, but it was one she did not mention, and that is the lack of legal pathways into Europe for people on the run. That is why I would like to challenge the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister say that Europe's border and asylum policy is part of what we are now seeing? If we are serious, we must also have a debate on what the alternative to today's closed borders is. We accept the invitation to dialogue in Stortinget. We are pleased that the government now sees that it is possible for Norway to accept more refugees with major medical needs. But I must also say that I think it is disappointing that the Prime Minister does not give a clearer signal of the willingness to accept more in the situation we are now in. I would like to warn against a discussion where we put the need for assistance in the neighbourhoods up against the possibility of receiving refugees in Norway. Capacity has been detonated in neighbouring countries. It is not possible to resolve this situation without Europe taking greater responsibility. Therefore, SV has put forward proposals in Stortinget to receive 10,000 more refugees from Syria. In previous debates in Stortinget – on the refugees from Kosovo, for example. – has been among the parties that have been very clear that there should be no contradiction between helping in the neighbourhoods and accepting refugees, and has drawn a clear line towards the Progress Party, which is the only party that has claimed such a principle. I wish the Prime Minister would do the same today. We accept the invitation to a process in Stortinget. At the same time, I would warn against the fact that the will for action that is now taking place in the Grand Duchy by decisions in a number of parties to receive 10,000 refugees is bubbling away in political games. We must now show the people that we are able to carry out what so many of us say is important to us. That is why I would ask the government to take into account what is now happening as a clear mood in the Stortinget, if not to allow the Progress Party, which is an extreme in these questions, to dictate Norwegian policy on such an important issue. The government must take account of the majority that is about to be established. We must take the view that the war in Syria is not a problem for Norway. The war in Syria is a problem for the Syrians. That means we have to be able to make an extraordinary effort, even if it's difficult, even if it costs us something. We have to take the small part of the responsibility that we can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e377	Today it's 40 years since the United States had to withdraw from Vietnam. Then maybe hundreds of thousands of South Vietnamese went to sea, and Norway immediately sent ships and people to pick up those who had gone to sea. We brought at least 6,000 Vietnamese home. Today, there are some 20,000 Vietnamese-based people living in Norway. They're well integrated. In 1993, in a rapid operation, we received 12,000 refugees from Bosnia. It was a national virtue. Today, very many of these people are well integrated into Norway. The refugees in the Mediterranean are no less desperate than those outside Vietnam 40 years ago. The refugees from Syria come from even worse conditions than the refugees from Bosnia and Kosovo. So we don't have to put ourselves in a situation where it can start to look like acting power and heart space since that time we've decreased as we've become even richer. I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister not only for a good review, but also for opening up a process in which the Stortinget together can find a solution to the efforts Norway has to make in the Mediterranean, Syria and at home. I recognise, on behalf of the Green Party, that the government is increasing its support for Syria and will increase it in the future, and is sending ships to the Mediterranean. At the same time, it is of course important to commend those organisations, ships, shipowners and crews who are already making an effort both in the Mediterranean and in Syria. The disasters we now see in Syria, North Africa, and unfortunately very many other places that go under the radar to the media, cannot be judged by how we tend to do it in normal situations. On the contrary, we have to reconsider and think about what Norway has to do based on the situations we are actually facing now. We have to think again about money and measures, and it is good that both the Workers' Party and the Left are talking about that kind of new thinking. We cannot set up support for areas around Syria against the need to receive more people in Norway. Already in June 2014, the Green Party called for 10 000 Syrian refugees to be accepted, and we are, of course, pleased that many parties are now at this position. These were a number of people we were able to receive in the 1970s and 1990s, and of course we can do it now. Otherwise, the number 10,000 might be a number that we're not supposed to be stuck in. That's a lot of possible we need to accept many more. Such an effort requires a hard work in the municipalities. As Jonas Gahr Larger has already been inside, Tromsø has stood up to signal his will to receive. Trondheim has done the same and several municipalities come after. Here are the possibilities. The Greens are fully aware that the state must help to cover its costs. In our alternative state budget for this year, we already put off 1.1 billion. to cover such expenses in municipalities. We have the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act on collective temporary protection as a tool to address this situation. I will therefore cease to agree with Trine Skei Grande from the Left. We don't just need a virtue in the municipalities. We need a good deal here in the Great Britain and from the Green Party, we have great expectations that we are now willing to think again and do what we have to do based on the situation we are actually facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e397	I'll be allowed to thank you for the speeches and comments from the parties. I believe that there is a basis for a good conversation about these questions in the future, also in the light of the comments given. We are facing a world of many crises. It's true that we now have four Category 3 crises. In addition, the World Food Programme now categorizes the situation in Nepal as a Category 3 crisis, although not the entire United Nations system has yet done so. So we've got a new, big crisis, which requires a lot of focus and help. It means, of course, that it is important to discuss the balance between what we give money to within the state budget. That is why this government has increased the humanitarian part in the last two years, because the crises have been bigger and there has been a need for it. At the same time, I would like to say that there has been a reason why it has increased on the other side since the last few years, that is, what has been used for assistance and long-term assistance. There is money that has helped to achieve the poverty targets of the United Nations. The money we give to GAVI, to the vaccine program for children to survive, is the money we give to prevent migration waves by creating development, jobs and opportunities for young people. It is important to remember that in order to prevent new, major disasters or post-work after disasters, you need that kind of work and that kind of money. In particular, the wave over the Mediterranean I think there are other measures than disaster and emergency aid that can primarily help to remedy over time. One of the reasons why the government is increasing the aid budget, not just the redeployment of the aid budget in the revised national budget to Syria, is that there are so many crises going on at once that we are now proposing a total increase. When it comes to the issue of the Triton operating area and the boat we send, we have to go into the EU operation that is taking place within Triton. As I said in my presentation, we believe that with a significant increase in capacity, which not only contributes to Norway, but several countries contribute, it will now be possible to expand Triton's mandate and scope of operation to save life in the Mediterranean, and it will be Norway's position towards the EU to do so. It's right and important that we do it. It is also important to be aware that sending down people who are trained in this kind of thing has an important side effect. Some of the reports we hear are that during the civil rescue work just in the transfer between wreck and new boat, there are many who die, because you are not used to that kind of disaster job – you get a lot of movement in the boat, and the boat is tipping. By having qualified personnel — that is why we have military and police — we ensure that evacuation from the wreck to the boat, rescue, can be done in a better way than is often possible in a disaster situation and a crisis situation when you are not trained to do just that. Let me say two words about the question of what kind of permission. I think it is nice that we discuss what kind of permit possibly more quota refugees or others should have when they come here. But I would like to remind you that the experience of the 1990s led to some important steps in Norwegian integration policy. During the period between 2001 and 2005, which I happen to know quite well in this area, we carried out a complete turnaround in integration work in Norway, with systematics from day one, with the introduction system, the right and duty to Norwegian training, you should get social assistance and not social assistance, we should motivate, precisely because the 1990s' experience was that we got too much work done. So it's important if we now bring more here, to know what kind of rights and what kind of obligations they're going to have, and what programs they're going to come under. Of the Bosnians, the main emphasis came first as asylum seekers, and more came on temporary authorisation. They were allowed to stay because the crisis lasted so long. The cosovers were to be sent back. But I want to say that we were going on for five years and trying to get them back to Kosovo. I myself have been sitting in Kosovo as a minister for this to explain why we have to return people when they are on temporary agreement, because you did not understand with the High Commissioner and representatives there why we could not just take everyone. Therefore, looking back to the 1990s gives many good experiences. But we also have to remember that it led to some understanding: that temporaryity may not be the best way for those who come, or that it is so easy to implement temporary permits when we really come to the moment of truth and are going to return them. I am pleased that we have a broad consensus that this is important, and I hope we will get a good process around the RNB and that association to find out good measures and communities around the three points that I mentioned in my final statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e425	The debate on the Prime Minister's presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the situation in the Mediterranean and on the humanitarian crisis in Syria and Iraq be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e441	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e455	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. The President will also propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e462	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. In this case, we stand together on comments and conclusions. The legal certainty of children and young people is important. Historically, we have linked family rights only to adults, the children have been subordinate to the adults in the family. This is about to change, and I am very pleased that the Left has promoted the issue of attaching rights to the Child Protection Act in order to emphasise the legal certainty of children in this way. Children are independent individuals with their own legal rights. My daughter of three and a half years reminds me of it all the time as she tramples on the floor, looks at me and says, "Mom, it's me who decides." I must, of course, remind her that it is not quite like that, because children also have the right to safe and good adults, who listen and lead with a loving hand. It is when the family is no longer safe, when the adults are not loving, but have enough with themselves or are bad with their children, that children need high-quality child protection. The Child Protection Act appears to be fragmented. The law and regulations have been amended a number of times – for good reasons and with good results, but we have not looked at the whole. A legislative committee has now been set up to review the Child Protection Act and the aim is to make a linguistic, technical and structural simplification of the entire law. It shall be adapted to the general developments in society and knowledge that have taken place since the entry into force of the Act in 1992. The Board of Regulators shall also investigate whether the Law on the Protection of Children shall become a Law on the Rights and, where appropriate, how such retention of rights may be governed by the Law. This issue has not been assessed by legislative committees in the past. In view of this, the Committee has considered that such an important issue as rights fixing deserves an overall review and that the committee's investigation will provide an even better starting point for a decision. The Committee was of the opinion that it was important to stress that the proposal for a representative, as it stands, provides a good review of the issues raised in the context of rights fixing, and on my own behalf I would like to add that I expect the legislative committee to follow this matter and take advantage of the work put into the case by the Left. With this I can only say that I am looking forward to the law commission being done with his work and we can start working on adopting a completely new and forward-looking child protection law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e483	The working party is committed to ensuring the legal security of children and young people. We need to create secure frames around growth. Then the children who are not well at home must get the help and support of child protection. Child protection therefore has a large and important job, and employees provide security for many children every day, as our wishes are for the service. When proposers from the Left propose to make the Child Protection Act a law on rights, we in the Labour Party – like the rest of the Committee – agree that this should be looked at in a wider context. Councillor Horne has announced a review of the law and regulations. We therefore believe that any right-holding should be part of that review. It is important to have a good foundation before we make this decision. It will, if possible, have consequences that we do not know about today, and it is necessary to find out how this might be designed and enforced, before going further. Will a right-holding capture what may be the problem, or will it create an even greater barrier and more paperwork, so that the service in the first line may be impaired? We need a code that can be understood by everyone involved. Well, it's as important as considering the right to uphold the Child Protection Act is having enough staff with good competence. The red-green government launched the so-called child-restraint lift and ear-marked child-restraint positions in the first line. It has produced results, and more — almost 1000 more — are employed in the field of child protection. This does not mean that everything is good, or that we are in goal, far from it, but it is right. It is therefore good that the government now continues to earmark funds for this in the current year, although we could have wanted the post office to be increased. We hope – and expect – that this will be followed up in the 2016 budget, and that it will increase if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e500	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives from the Left for their commitment and suggestions, even though they are not on the Family and Culture Committee, to improve the situation for children who, for various reasons, need assistance from child protection. The aim of the Child Protection Act is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive appropriate and timely assistance and care. The law gives the authorities an obligation to have professionally sound child protection. It does not necessarily give the child an independent right to have the necessary child protection measures. Proposalers believe that both the actual and formal legal certainty of children will be strengthened by making child protection a law of rights. There are good arguments for and against right-wing fastening. I think most of us agree with the intention here: that children's formal and real legal certainty should be strengthened. The question is whether authentication of rights is the instrument that will lead to this. The argument against authentication of permissions acts, inter alia: that it is unclear what this means, what situations you are talking about, and exactly what services are to be covered. Childcare is about both helping at home and taking the child out of the home. What measures, if any, should be legitimised? It is also a major challenge today that auxiliaries are not properly coordinated, so that the need for mental health protection, drug care, family therapy, health station services, Nav and child protection is not coordinated. Many families get help from the wrong instance. We need to see this complex field more in an overall perspective. Many believe that the retention of rights to child protection services is not the way to go, but that it will weaken the overall focus. I have no doubt that more interaction, strengthening the local economy, earmarked funds for positions and increased focus on skills are targeted actions that are the most important to improve child protection provision and ensure the legal certainty of children. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed a stepping-up plan to ensure full child protection. This implies sufficient treatment capacity in municipal child protection, sufficient foster homes and institutional facilities to provide all children with an offer tailored to their needs, sufficient capacity in the counties to ensure rapid treatment, sufficient number of supervisors, the right to follow-up until 23 years of age for young people on child protection measures. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for obliging economic escalation and earmarking of funds, and we need to consider the introduction of a standard of living in municipal child protection. There are major gaps and challenges in child protection, both public and municipal. In order for children to receive qualified and rapid assistance, the field of child protection needs a resource lift. Without that, I don't think we're reaching the goal of legal certainty for the children who need help. It is a huge challenge that there is a great shortage of foster homes throughout the country. In the past, the Christian People's Party has made proposals calling for an obligatory plan to secure a home for all children, an action plan for full foster home coverage. Another major challenge facing child protection is the large number of child-restraint movements. Many children under the care of child protection are not offered stability and association. The Christian People's Party has proposed a stability reform in child protection with better follow-up of foster homes to prevent fractures, more use of institutions for children with the most demanding needs, closer cooperation between institutions and foster homes, increased use of family councils and the child's relatives and large families as foster homes, among others. There are major challenges in child protection. It's about organization and laws, but it's also about resources. The Christian People's Party has proposed and worked for increased funding for child protection in the budgets, and we are going to continue with it. Today, the Christian People's Party is going to vote for the proposal to attach rights to the Minutes. We are also looking forward to the work done by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs in this area, and we are looking forward with excitement to what the result will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e530	Everyone in the room will probably agree that there is a need to strengthen the legal security of children, that much is good, and that we are far ahead compared to many other countries. The Children’s Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law, and Grundlova has now strengthened the position of the children. The left believes that the time has come for the longest to make child protection a law, for this is well done. Several public representations have suggested exactly that – the Befring selection, the Flatø selection, the Children's Protection Panel, the Raundalen selection – by 2012 at the latest. The size has more than enough knowledge to make the principle decisions on legal certainty today. Then it could reduce the law selection as a task to come up with suggestions on how this can best be done. The strongest argument for this position was concluded by Professor Søvig in 2009 in the resolution on the challenges facing Norwegian law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, commissioned by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality: ‘However, on the basis of the clear Convention commitment to give priority to children, it is difficult to maintain the current non-legislative nature of children’s rights to child protection services, as long as there are legal provisions for a wide range of other welfare benefits.’ Well, that's also the main point on the left. There are many areas of justice and justice: patient law, training laws, other welfare laws – to name a pinch. Then it's a big crutch that it's the most exposed kids and young people, the ones who have the worst intentions to meet their own needs and basic rights, which are soon the only group in the welfare community who don't have an explicit legal right to the necessary help. There are, unfortunately, more care failures than we might quite be willing to take over. We should not talk to many children with child protection secrets to see that there are too many people who are getting help too late, who are getting too little help, or not help at all, and that many of the children have experienced that today's law in practice rather means parental protection rather than child protection. Parents have e.g. transparency in the file, which may pose major challenges for young people to tell their story. Of course, making child protection laws a law will not solve all the challenges of child protection. Providing children with a self-rightful right to help and not just to be the most generous duty of child protection will, however, undoubtedly put children in a better position than they do today. The danger is that, in practice, too often, there is parental protection rather than child protection, and it is unnecessary. Making child protection laws a law here and now would really have been the legacy of Johan Castberg – it's exactly 100 years since the Stortinget passed the groundbreaking Castberg Children's Elves. Unfortunately, this does not happen. However, I read and hear the comments from the majority in the committee so that they are in principle consistent with the Left in question, but that they want to see it in conjunction with the review of the laws. The Minister said the same in the clear text of the letter to the Committee. Since all of this indicates that there are actually a number of rights attaching to children's lives, and that the law selection is now given this as a mandate, I also ask, and expect them to subsidize – if they should nevertheless conclude that they do not recommend the legalisation of the law – discuss and propose in concrete terms how this can be legally resolved, so that the Storting next time does not waste unnecessary time on another occasion in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e557	It is necessary to continue efforts to strengthen child protection. It is necessary to continue the work of ensuring that there are enough safe, professionally competent adults who have both time and patience to stand in the everyday lives of vulnerable children and do something with them. But it is not enough to strengthen child protection and action; we also need to strengthen children's rights. That is why I would like to thank the proposers for promoting the proposal, and I also understand that there is a movement in the field. And that's very pleasing because it's needed, it's necessary. Both the Raundalen Committee, the Plate Committee, the Befring Committee, the United Nations Children's Committee, the Children's Ombudsman and a wide range of hearing bodies recommend making child protection a law of rights, and these are heavy child-disciplinary bodies that are absolutely worth listening to. If we really want all the kids to get the help they need, yeah, it's not possible as long as parents can resist letting the child get help. Then children will be able to live in unsustainable situations and actually not get the help they need and have the right. Entitlement will help to clarify and strengthen the child’s position, both legally and non-legally. There will be a strong signal that the child should be taken seriously and that the subject in his or her own life should be seen and heard. In its latest report to Norway, the UN Children’s Committee recommends that children be given the right to apply to child protection regardless of parental consent. The Committee is concerned that children are dependent on the consent of their parents before they can help a child in need of child protection services. Unfortunately, today many young people who could clearly benefit from child protection help have to wait until their difficulties become so great that care transfer, or moving out of their homes, is an alternative. Legislation on the right to child protection services will be a step towards giving children the right to relief, even in cases where parents oppose it. It will be a crucial part of prevention work, and it will also contribute to a reduction in the number of care takeovers in the long term. Children who need it must have the right to help when they need it. The proposed changes to the Child Protection Act are good and will strengthen children’s and young people’s rights, but they are not taking a full step. SV works to ensure that the Child Protection Act becomes a law on rights, so that the child’s right to protection becomes the basic principle of the law. That's why the movement in the field is joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e568	Like previous speakers, I would also like to thank the proposers for their great commitment to an important area of how we can provide better help and protection for those children who need child protection assistance. It is important that we have an open and constructive dialogue on which instruments can best be used to ensure that we provide the best possible care for children. The Child Protection Act already contains both municipal child protection obligations and procedural rights for children and parents. We have statutory deadlines for the assessment and implementation of notifications, studies and actions, and the child protection service is obliged to follow up and evaluate those actions. I would also like to mention the right of children to participate, the right of families to complain if they are denied an application for assistance, the rules on rights of residence in a child protection institution and that all parties have the right to free legal assistance in forced actions. Children and parents who consider that the Child Welfare Service does not fulfil their obligations may complain to the County. I would also like to remind you that the law obliges municipalities to provide the appropriations necessary to provide services and measures resulting from the Child Protection Act. I am also very pleased that in 2014 there were changes to the law that further strengthened the legal security of children in child protection. An important requirement is that all measures and services offered by the protection of children should be sound and that the rights of participation of children should be strengthened. It is now clarified in the law that the right of participation applies in all matters relating to the child and that it should be facilitated for conversations with the child. The child protection service must also document how the child’s right to participation has been respected and a trust person regime has also been established. I also want to mention the proposition on extended access to impose relief measures that are now being treated in Stortinget. I believe that the law that is there also helps to strengthen children's rights. As you know, the government has recently set up a child protection committee, a sample that has been asked to carry out a linguistic, technical and structural simplification of the entire child protection law, adapted to the general developments that have taken place in society. Another essential objective is to make the law easier to understand, because good accessibility is a good way to strengthen the legal certainty of children and families. The Children’s Protection Act Committee has been asked to assess and see whether the protection of children is an appropriate area for the retention of rights, and this has also been assessed by other selections, as many have been involved. Changes in the laws will include, inter alia: allow the protection of children to be placed in the home until the situation has become so serious that adoption of care is necessary. The legislative committee now set up shall present its investigation in mid-August 2016. I look forward to receiving the evaluations and proposals made by the legislative committee in this area, because the investigation will be an important starting point both in our assessment and in the public debate. I believe it is too early to conclude on the issue of rights fixing. However, the Committee on the Protection of Children’s Rights will make a new and important contribution to the discussion, and I intend to return to the Stortinget with any proposals for changes when the legislative committee has submitted its assessment. Although there have been several samples that have looked at this and made a recommendation to make the Child Protection Act a right law, it is the first time that a sample is set up to look at how this can work in the law. This is important to have with us, because the most important thing here is that children who need help get the help they need at all times, and as it is now, we all too often see that the rights they have today are not always fulfilled. If it's the right way to go to legislate the law and how we can get it into the law so that it helps the children, it's important that the Children's Law Committee looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e598	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e601	Thanks to the Minister for a good review and for what I perceive is a fundamental heavy commitment to the field. What I had hoped the minister would give a little response to was my conclusion in the main post on the selection subsidized – regardless of what they had to conclude on the main question of legal fastening or not – coming up with a discussion and concrete suggestions on how to legally solve it under the child protection law for legal fastening.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e608	Sometimes when you have too much paper with you up on the pulpit, it gets a little bit sour. Of course, it is important for me to respond to the challenge of the representative of Breivik. I take it almost as a matter of course that the Children's Protection Act Committee comes with the feedback that the representative is asking for. The committee has been asked to assess whether child protection is an appropriate area for rights-holding and to discuss the extent to which rights-holding could actually provide better services. The Committee shall further explore options to demonstrate how such right-holders may be regulated by the Child Protection Act, including the situations that should trigger rights and what they should consist of, while respecting the professional judgement of the Child Protection Service. I look forward to the Children's Act Committee actually taking this issue seriously and looking at how it can be placed in the law, and that it also comes up with proposals that it becomes important that the Storting should take up the discussion when we have handed it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e630	For many children, a break between parents means a heavy load. Since so many families experience divorce and family changes each year, it is important to identify good mediation arrangements. There are many families in such processes, and it is so important to do what we can to ensure that the situation of children before, during and after the breakup is optimal and with the lowest level of conflict between parents. I think it's important that we ask the question: what can we do to make children and families as difficult as possible in these situations? We know that conflict is harmful to the children, and that everything that seems anti-conflict is good. At the family office in Skien, Grenland Family Office, they ask everyone who's going for mediation, if they want to take the children with them, and they think that the method they use, Children in mediation, seems conflict-relieving and solves a lot for the children and the family as a whole. The children are then invited to get together with their parents for the first hour, the mercenaries first talk to their children and their parents together, information about the mediation process is given, the mercenaries talk to the children alone, or possibly the siblings together. The themes of the conversation with the children are how the children feel, how the children experience the parents ’ breakage, the wishes of the children. The children are not asked where they want to live after the breakup, the mercenaries agree with the children on what to pass on to their parents, and whether the children will be present. The mediation continues with the parents, and they get information about the child conversation. Parents continue to work with community agreements with mercenaries. Finally, the children are picked up and presented for what the parents have agreed on, and sometimes there is a need for more mediation hours. All families involved in the mediation project are offered evaluation after six months. Children in mediation are a project they run in Harstad, Tromsø and Sandefjord in addition to Skien. The University of Tromsø runs an evaluation to be completed in spring 2015, i.e. in a short time. Children in mediation are about the children being told their opinion, the children being heard, the children being told that someone is seeing their situation and helping them. In the context of Stortinget’s treatment of the State budget in 2015, the majority of the population took decision No. 218: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposing to the Storting that all children be offered their own conversation time with family protection when their parents are involved in mediation after a break in life’.» The background to the decision is inter alia: The experience of family protection with the Children in mediation project and that actors such as the Children’s Ombudsman and UNICEF Norway have also been drivers for all children to be directly involved in parental responsibility and association. So my question to the Council of State today is: Will the Council of State follow up the decision of the Grand Council by introducing requirements for own childcare by mediation by disseminating the practice of the Children's Mediation project to all family protection offices and brokers, or in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e648	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. All children who want it have the right to express their views on matters that affect them. The right of all children to be heard and to be taken seriously is one of the fundamental values of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and of the Law on the Rights of the Child. As Minister of Children, I have a special responsibility to ensure that these rights are fulfilled in practice, and that children are given the opportunity to express themselves and express their opinion on matters relating to them. In 2014, the provisions of the Children’s Act on the consultation of children were amended. It was made clear that children under the age of seven and able to form their own views should also have the opportunity to express their views before making decisions on personal matters for them. It was further clarified that children have the right to information and will have the opportunity to express their views on all questions raised by the case. It was also provided in the Children’s Act that a child who has communicated his/her opinion in a case should receive feedback from the judge or the referee, about the outcome of the case and how the child’s opinion has been taken into account. The purpose of the amendment was, inter alia, to: clarifying that involving children is a process consisting of several elements: information, consultation and feedback. In Norway, there has been a growing attention in recent years on the right of children to comment and to express their opinion. We have gradually gained a different view of children’s ability to act themselves and to be active participants. It is agreed that the views expressed by children provide relevant perspectives and relevant experience and should be included in the assessment when decisions are to be taken. Parents are the most important people in children’s lives. When a child experiences parental separation, there is an event that involves major changes in the child’s life. This applies to both practical aspects — the child will, for example: had to relate to two homes — and the emotional. Children are inevitably affected by the decisions and agreements reached by their parents. Therefore, it is so important that children have the opportunity to communicate what they think and what they want and to influence the decisions that concern them. This does not mean that the child is to choose or decide how agreements and decisions are to be made, but children must be given the opportunity to communicate what is needed to make the best possible use of the child’s life after a break in life. In the vast majority of mediation cases today, children's right to be heard is practiced by parents talking to their children about what they want and think. The broker is required to make parents aware of the children's right to be heard, but it is the parents who hear what the children have to say. Even today, there is an opening for children to attend and talk to a broker in connection with a break in their lives or before one of the parents brings a case before the court. However, when Sintef evaluated the mediation system on behalf of the Ministry in 2011, one of the findings was that children are little heard directly in the context of mediation. There has been some increase in recent years, but the numbers are still low. These figures confirm that there is a need to do something about it and that more children must be given the opportunity to comment on mediation. As the interpellant mentions, both the Children’s Ombudsman and UNICEF Norway have been driving forces for all children to be directly contacted by a family protection office in the context of mediation and for a mandatory child interview. During the budgetary procedure in December, the Stortinge came up with a request decision asking the government to consider proposing to the Stortinge that all children be offered a separate interview with family protection when their parents are involved in mediation. Before I can give the interpellant a final answer to that, I have to ask the question in more detail, but I can promise the interpellant that I will come back to Stortinget with feedback on how the government will follow up that request decision. I also want to inform Stortinget that the department is already actively working on increasing the number of children who are offered to participate in mediation. It shall include, inter alia: emphasis is placed on strengthening the competence of family protection in talking to children, so that the child’s perspective is expressed, and that the needs and interests of children are taken into account in matters relating to them. As the interpellant is also aware, the 2015 budget for family protection was strengthened by the budgetary agreement in Stortinget. Strengthening is primarily focused on the prevention of family protection, the work of violent families and families with high levels of conflict. This year’s Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate’s award letter introduced as a result requirement for the Directorate to increase the number of children heard during mediation compared to last year’s. The Directorate has also been entrusted with the task of strengthening the competence of mediation cases with a high level of conflict, including discussions with children. The Directorate has notified to the Ministry that measures to increase the participation of children and the ability of brokers to talk to children are now being implemented in all regions. The Directorate has also worked on professional standardisation of conversations with children. One of the most important efforts to increase the number of children involved in mediation is the work done in family protection and in the individual family protection offices. Several offices have developed their own models of how children can participate in mediation. The interpellant himself mentioned Children in mediation, developed by family therapist Gjertrud Jonassen at the Grenland family office. The method is to invite children to a separate conversation in connection with mediation and talk to them about what has happened, and if there is something they want to convey to their parents. As part of the model, families come back to an evaluation after six months. The feedback on this model is good – both from the children, from the parents and from the mercenaries – and it is also spread to several other family protection offices in the rest of the country. Researchers at the University of Tromsø are working on a study of the model that I am delighted to see the results of. The experience with children in mediation and other models to include children also shows that the number of children participating in mediation is increasing at the family protection offices that actively work with children in mediation. It's an important experience that we have to build on. It is not enough to ensure that most of the children are offered a call hour in connection with mediation. It is also important to be aware of how the conversation should be. It's not enough that kids get to participate, they're also going to get to participate in a good way. Adults must be well prepared and have the necessary skills and tools. They must also be well qualified in listening to children, cooperating with them and engaging them in accordance with their age and development. The Directorate has recently taken the initiative to produce a knowledge summary of what research says on how we can conduct good conversations with children. The report will provide a basis for the development of good professional recommendations and actions. In this way, we want to increase the number of children who are offered a conversation and ensure that the conversation is carried out in a good way for the benefit of the individual child. In conclusion, I can promise the representative that I will return to Stortinget at a later stage with an answer to how the government will follow up the request decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e688	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I experience this answer as very positive and understand that this needs to be investigated, but I hope that the experiences you have among others. from the Family Office of Grenland and the evaluation report to be submitted by the University of Tromsø during the spring may provide the basis for good practice in this area in the future. I understand that it may be possible to ask questions by raising an interpellation on the basis of a request decision, because a request decision is something that the government is going to follow up. But now both the Council of State Horne and the Family and Culture Committee have been visiting the Family Office of Grenland, and we have heard about this project. For me, it could be very interesting to raise a debate in Stortinget just to listen to what the other parties think about this, and not least to be able to clear up some misunderstandings, if it were to be, about this proposal, for example. a misunderstanding that children may be charged with a greater responsibility than they have. This is not about children entering and taking responsibility for family or parent conflicts. With regard to the conflict of parents – and especially in situations where there is a strong conflict between parents, and where parents may only see themselves and their own conflict – it is important that some people also see the children, who often come into a situation where they can feel very lonely and that no one sees them. Children also have very strong loyalty to their parents. How can the child somehow be seen in a situation where parents may have enough of their own conflicts? Just there was some of the starting point for the project they started at the Grenland family office. As I said, you have good experience, and so we should look with open eyes whether this can also apply to more family offices. I am at least very excited about both the investigation that the Council of State has said will come about this, and – not least – also to read the research report from the University of Tromsø. But everything is about what also appears in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, namely that children have the right to speak and to be heard. It also applies in situations like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e701	For some people, a break in a family could be like this: It was good that it happened. For others, it could be a big impression. In the middle of the breakup between two parents, there are some children. The most important thing we can do is do a good job with our parents, so that they are equipped to see the children, who are also going through a major crisis. There has been a large increase in the number of family protection requests for prevention. When I have met with the family protection office, they have asked for more time to be able to drive prevention and help the families before it goes so far that the parents leave each other. It hasn't been a priority problem. Now I'm very happy that we've strengthened family protection, so they can help more people to maybe keep living together, so they don't have to separate. The day that happens anyway, it's important that we have a good family protection office, which can help the parents, and that can help them with mediation and not just to see themselves. For those who have been through it, know that then there is a lot of anger, and there may be a lot of bitterness. Then it's not that easy to think of the kids sitting there, who have to go through this. Then there must be good mercenaries that can help the parents. I think we all agree that it is important for parents to be able to talk to the children, and that the children can also put words on it. Many children are torn between mother and father and are afraid to hurt one or the other by saying that they would rather live in one place than the other, that you want to have it like that and that, and that they could all, preferably, think that this didn't happen. That's why both the mercenaries and the parents have to see that this isn't just something that the two adults go through. There's also something that the kids are going through. Therefore, the work done in the family protection offices is important. We are waiting for some reports, but what I am pleased about is that there is an overall political Norway that sees that children have a voice, and that through a strengthened child law so clearly says that children should have influence, and that children should be heard. But when you get reports that this isn't happening, we have a way to go. We have to look at how we can make children's voices more clear, because we know that it is important that children are heard. The research we have now shows that children are very little involved in the mediation room. That is why it is important that we now continue to work on this, and I am pleased with the decision that the Stortinget has made and that we are going to come back with a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e714	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing a topic that affects a lot of people. There is no doubt that very many children and young people experience challenging situations when their parents break up, and then it is important that the kids have safe adults around them. It is also important that we find solutions to what we all agree on, namely that children and young people should have the right to be heard. That's why we think it's important that we have health centres with good staff, which can talk to the children before, during and after a divorce, and that we have employees in kindergartens who have knowledge of the situation of children who are going through a situation where their parents are in a breakup. Then it's also important that we have a school day where there are other adults than those who are in a learning situation and who can see the kids and the whole thing that is needed around them. That is why – when we discuss this matter – we also need to take out not only a small tab of everything, but also the ability to see the situation in a whole, because the children live their lives all the time, all the day and all the year. We have recorded that the Council of State has now sent to the hearing a matter of changes to the Children's Act, and I assume that we are going to be able to elucidate some of these issues there, because there are serious issues. We record that kids report back that they are struggling in such situations. I also believe that there should be more research into what is the right choice to make, so that this is based on children's premise – not just on parents' premises. A knowledge summary made by the Institute of Public Health two years ago showed that there was very little research and few studies on what was right, and what were the right choices for that group. That is why I think it is important that we look at this quite widely and that we have a good schooling service. We were in Grenland and we heard the family offices working there. They had very good feedback on having conversation groups in school. I think that can also be important – that you meet other like-minded people and feel that there are several people who have the same experiences as yourself. To the proposal: Of course, we agree that both children should be heard and that it is important that they should be given a vote. But I think when we're going to approach this, you have to make sure that the resources are used where they are most needed. In fact, parents are able to go through a breakup without the major conflicts, and then perhaps the most resources should not be spent on the parent groups, but rather on the resources where the conflicts are the largest. So the question is, is there one recipe for how to do this? There is a difference between a 1-year-old and a 15-year-old, and family protection offices do not exist anywhere. They exist, but maybe it takes two to three hours to drive to meet at a family protection office. Is it then right to take a 5-year-old out of a safe environment in the kindergarten to take him to a family protection office, or could you systematize the work, so that you could have some of the safe adults, who are around the kids, who could help convey what the kids' views about it all? We have not taken a position on this, but I believe that these are some reflections that it is important to think about further in order to get a safe situation, so that the children actually get what they think. I'm a little afraid that being taken out and meeting some completely alien people who you've never seen before, so to tell you how you feel, can also be quite demanding. At least for some of the kids, those who aren't that big, it might be possible to think a little bit different, depending on the age group we're thinking about, just to be able to meet the needs of the individual kid.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e733	First, thank the representative, Mr Becquerad, for showing great impatience in a matter that seems to be important to many. We're not going back in time until a normal part of the child's education was that children should be seen, but not heard. Fortunately, this is changed, and we now know that children need to be seen, but most importantly, they need to be listened to. The Children's Convention says something about this, and our own children's law as well. The family creates security around most children, but then families break up, parents go to their own. Most people are doing just fine. They put the children first, they forget their own hurt feelings, talk nice about each other and work together well. Unfortunately, there are more and more people who have increased the level of conflict and who do not reach agreement, and some of them also use the children in the conflict. This is devastating for the children, but not all parents are able to see it, because they are so engrossed in their own feelings. Fortunately, we have a claim for mediation when parents are going to separate. This is an important point where we make the four walls of the house a little less impermeable for the children. That's why it's a little strange, I don't think we've looked at how children should be included in this process, because children ask to be heard, and they won't be treated as, or have responsibilities like, adults – not so strange maybe, all the time it's not those who have asked for divorce from some of their parents. Yet they are in the middle of it, with all the changes that they have not asked for. It has been mentioned that, for example: Grenland family offices include children to a large extent. Children are allowed to talk to someone without their parents present and can say the things they may not dare to say to Mom and Dad, in fear of hurting them. They'll tell you what it's like to think that it's their fault that Mom and Dad argue, tell us where they might want to live, and how the quarrel does that all the good that was, almost gets destroyed. It turns out from the places that include children in this way, that adults, too, are getting down on the level of conflict, they are reminded of something important. It's the adults who have to be adults. The parenting role applies until death separates us, even though not marriage or cohabitation always does. I look forward to the follow-up and evaluation of the decision taken in relation to the budget, and I am pleased with the signals coming from the Council of State. Children are not young adults, but when their whole lives are turned upside down, they have a right to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e748	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Becquerad, for raising the child's perspective, and for addressing this matter. Children are often forgotten, whether it's health care and psychiatry when their parents are ill, or it's by Nav when you have economic and social problems, or it's a break in life. Adult relationships always have a direct impact on a child’s life — more than adults may think about when you have a lot to carry on yourself. It is also rare for people in crisis to see their surroundings and surroundings wide - eyed. That is why we must have systems that guarantee the child's perspective. We have to have arrangements that make children look and hear, and that it happens in practice and not just on paper. It's a good thing that it's arranged for children to be heard, but it's rare enough. Children must be guaranteed an offer of conversation because they, their everyday lives and their future are most affected by parental separation. Although the fracture may not be so dramatic for the parents, it can be most dramatic for the child. Then I think it makes sense that there is an instance holding on to those threads, and that it could also help unravel locked situations if parents get help listening to children and seeing it from the children's perspective, for sometimes it's necessary. Few children claim to be heard, and often the strategy for children who have difficulties can be silence — while the lump in the stomach is growing. Children who don't want to be bothered, too, must be met by adults who care. That is why I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the matter, but also the Council of State for sending such clear signals. It is essential to raise the child’s perspective in all social conditions – because it concerns children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e759	Thank you for a good debate. Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate. It's my understanding that here it's really quite a consensus that we have to fix somehow, so that children are more likely to be heard. I think that's quite right, as Kirsti Bergstø says, children don't always make demands to be heard, but we have to facilitate it. Then I agree with Rigmor Aasrud that we have to think cross-sectorally. Having the focus on just one instance I don't think is the way to go. We also see that in many other areas. We discuss it very much in child protection, that child protection has to cooperate with multiple agencies. I think we can do that here too, but there's a slight difference. It is that neither kindergarten nor school is involved in mediation. It's the broker and family protection office that do, and that's why the focus is now on children in mediation. But that family protection office can cooperate with kindergarten, with health centres, with schools, yes, I'm sure that will be a strength for the whole family. But now that we're talking about children in mediation, it's the mediation agencies that have been the main focus of this interpellation. I would once again like to thank the debate, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answers she has given. As I said, I look forward to an investigation into this. The representative of Mette Tønder is quite right: I am impatient. That's why I could hope that I could share that impatience with the Council of State, because this is about setting up quickly so that children can be heard to a greater extent, as they also have the right to be heard under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It applies in all areas of concern to children, and it does so to the greatest extent in matters such as this. So I agree that it's not all divorces that bear the mark of high conflict, but I think like Kirsti Bergstø that although it might not seem so conflicty to adults, it's not certain that it's the experience for children. That is why at least I am of the opinion that this proposal, which is really about giving all children an opportunity to get an hour of mediation, should include not just high conflicts, but that we look at this much wider than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e770	I am very pleased that the representative Becquerad is impatient, and that he is not able to wait, but is promoting this interpellation today, so that we get this debate. It's an important topic. I fully agree with the interpellant that this applies not only to children living in a conflict-affected family. For each child there may be a big conflict even if the parents are not in conflict. That's why it's important to see all the children. I am pleased that there is a political consensus that the right of children to be heard is essential. I've had a recording meeting with most of the family protection offices where they report that somehow children are being heard. And then there are different models that we're going to go into and get reports about, but it's also important, as the representative Aasrud said, that it's not just the family protection offices, but also everything that's around the individual child, it's important to keep focus on -- it's that they have safe solutions around them, the work that health services do, what some kindergartens and schools do. There are many health centres that have the task in the municipalities to have good conversation groups, where children who experience divorce can talk. At the same time, it is important that parents leave the children in this decision. This is something we're going to take with us. We have received some research reports, and what we are now waiting for is important to follow up the Storting decision. Then again, I want to remind you of what I was into in my main post, that we have already started the directorate with several things that will lead to children being heard by mediation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e779	So the debate is on case No. Four o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e793	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after submissions by the member of the Government, and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is initially the representative of Mr S. Tuskedal, who is the rapporteur on the matter. The President cannot see that the representative is in the Chamber, so he will pass the floor on to the representative Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e802	The discussion about the long-term asylum children affects and engages us all. There is no one who has met people, families or children in this situation, who may be unaffected by the difficult situation that very many of them are in. Unfortunately, no matter where you set limits, how many are left for humanitarian reasons, there will be balances and difficulties for those who are refused and have to go home. I think it's good policy to be consistent and predictable in all matters, and it's especially important in the issues involving children. The working party believes that creating high expectations without being able to meet them can be a burden, and it is not for the best of children. The red-green government strengthened children's interests and rights. In our own big message entitled Children of Refugees, we increased the supply of children at reception, UDI and UNE to increase resources for faster processing and child-care skills. We, together with the SV and the Center Party, adjusted the balance between the child’s best and immigration-regulating considerations – because the practice had been too strict. The claim that a change in the regulations was necessary in order for the best interests of children to be given greater weight did not measure up. The foreign student concluded in June 2013 that the child-removal notification was based on asylum cases and had given several children a stay in Norway. For the Workers' Party, the best has been and will continue to be a fundamental concern in these cases. In autumn 2013, the government and cooperation parties – the Christian People's Party and the Left – created great hopes for the long-term children and their families. A new policy would come, and many would now be. But it lasted and raked, and there was no new policy. The government spent too much time designing new regulations, and the Minister of Justice spoke falsely and held back information to Stortinget. Meanwhile, long-term children were sent out of the country. Then Bergen's magazine began to write about the situation. Then the Minister of Justice had to complain from this pulpit, and finally a new regulation came into force on 8 December 2014. No one then had the answer to what was going to happen to those who had been sent out after the legislation that had been in force during 2014. It lasted and worked, but we finally managed to reach a new agreement that would follow up the cooperation agreement we had had. There was a clear need to clean up the situation. It is not sustainable for people in a vulnerable situation over time to be the subject of public debate on possible return to Norway. It's the government that has made the situation itself. In this case, the government and the Prime Minister have not shown the necessary political leadership. The agreement of 8 April between the government and the cooperation parties now clarifies who will be tried again. The Labour Party supports this, primarily for the sake of those who have lived with great uncertainty and uncertainty about where to create their future and live their lives. They deserve clarification. To further contribute to calmness, we have also said that we will not challenge the legislation that is now in place. It's going to work, and we're going to have to wait for the practical consequences in the field. It also remains to be seen when the necessary law or regulation resulting from the agreement of 8 April actually comes into effect and may be the basis for re-examination. The Labour Party's policy is clear: we must have a humane, fair and secure asylum and immigration policy. Those in need of protection will receive it in Norway. Those who don't have it have to get out. No matter where you put the balance point, in the future, families with children who have been finally denied their applications will have to go home. Children are the least worthy of us to create a system in which they risk becoming an instrument in the adult struggle for residence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e837	It is good that there can be quite a broad consensus on this matter here today. At the same time, it is interesting to hear the representative Sivertsen say that there is a lack of leadership when, in fact, an explanation of the situation of the asylum-seekers has been found which had not been found before. It is also interesting to hear the representative Sivertsen say that it is important to be consistent and predictable, because there is someone who has not been consistent and predictable in this matter, it is the Workers' Party. Before Easter Sivertsen stated in several contexts that the Workers' Party believes that matters should be dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation at all times, and would not hear of retrospective force, while after Easter it is said that the system that has been established is supported. What is the reason for the reverse operations of the Workers' Party? Is it the case that you rely on what you always assume to be a majority for in this Chamber, or was the real reassessment of the Labour Party that made you turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e842	In the Labour Party, we believe, in principle, that it is always the law in place to underpin the handling and resolution of cases. We have meant that, we believe that, and we will believe that in the future as well. But, as I said in my post, in this case, so much uncertainty was created over so long that it was important to get a point for dealing with these matters and get a clarification for the affected. That is why we have said that we will not challenge the legislation that is now in place. That's why we've said that we're supporting the solution that's now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e847	If one had wanted to be consistent, it would have been reasonable that the Workers' Party had both supported the SV's proposal to put these matters at risk when the case came up – it was done before, when we were in government and there were changes – and that one had used the time limit of three years and not four and a half years. It has also been done on two previous occasions when changes in the rules have been notified. I notice that the representative from the Workers' Party says they will not challenge the solution. But I do not hear any great enthusiasm for the fact that a regulation has now been put in place that confirms what we agreed on in the Children's Grand Notice on the run. I don't care. Is it true that the Workers' Party really wants this scheme not to have been implemented, and that the regulation should not be amended in line with the leaders in the Children's Grand Notice?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e854	Afternoon time is an exact science, and as this case has evolved, it may be easy to say that there are better arguments to support a robbery today than it did in the summer of 2014. At that time, it was assured that this was not a problem, and that this would be put in place quickly. In the case of enthusiasm related to regulatory changes, perhaps the bureaucrats are making the regulations, first and foremost exhibiting, but I agree with Andersen's representative that the regulatory change that came is far on the way to the continuation of the points that were discussed and that were set out in the Children's Disposal Communication. I'll do that in full. Then we have had a debate on those regulations earlier in this Chamber. Then both the Council of State and other parties have agreed with the Labour Party that it is difficult to see what practical consequences it has, so we get back to that when the regulation has worked for some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e863	It is possible that post-war clocks are an exact science, but attempts at history falsification are definitely not. What's interesting is that the Workers' Party doesn't know which legs they're going to be on in these questions. The representative had clear attacks in his post – one had not done good enough work, all the time there was no regulation in place before these four parties found it. Secondly, in his reply to the representative from the Right, the representative says that the principle that laws, regulations and regulations apply until new ones are in place is what the Workers' Party still believes. On what basis does the representative criticise the failure to arrive at this regulation before 8 December and the fact that children have been expelled? After all, all those who were then expelled were expelled on the basis of the laws, regulations and regulations in force until then.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e870	The representative might be able to use a more parliamentary expression than ‘history falsification’.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e873	As I said in my article, this situation has arisen because the government spent too much time. It was in the fall of 2013 the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left proud stood in the Nydalen and told them that they had reached an agreement in the foreign field, and that there was now a new policy on the way. There was a lot of hope. There were many hopes in the people affected. But you spent over a year putting in place a practical solution, over a year to get a code in place. In the meantime, another legislation was practised. The problem in this case is related to the people affected, the hopes and hopes that were created and that were not delivered in relation to. That is also the basis for the matter we are dealing with today – precisely that people were sent out in violation of the policy that Keshvari actually stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e879	When the representative claims that the regulation was too late, I wonder: too late for what? When the representative determines that laws, regulations and regulations apply until new ones are in place – yes, they apply. Then it's not something that's too early or too late, it takes the time it takes to figure it out. So how can you establish that a regulation is too late, all the time you have as a principle that laws, regulations and regulations apply? Secondly, it is a little strange to witness that the Workers' Party is so indignant in a matter which, in the worst case, has led to the policy they themselves stood for for for a few months. This is not a matter of concern to the involvement we see from the representative in the pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e886	The problem in this case is therefore that the representative Keshvari and his party traps, the second government party and the cooperation parties, were out and promised another policy, but chose to wait over a year to get a regulation in place. In the meantime, there was another practice. That is a political problem. I have not criticised a legal problem – this is a political problem. In principle, we believe, and still believe, that matters should be settled in accordance with the legislation in force at all times. But in these kinds of cases, which directly affect human beings, one has a responsibility to get solutions in place quickly. What has happened here has been a problem, and that is why we are also here today discussing a matter created by the government because you have not delivered what you have promised to do. It affects the lives of a lot of people. It should also involve Keshvari.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e893	The representative Sivertsen said that one was consistent – consistent rigid, possibly. I listened with interest to the exchange of lines between the representative Sivertsen and the representative Andersen that afternoon clocks are an exact science. My question to the representative Sivertsen is this: when one practices the old code, which was in many ways the Workers' Party's stand, while at the same time criticising a more liberal code, what is the representative Sivertsen most satisfied with? Is he most satisfied with what is in place now, or did he wish that there should still be a more rigid regulation, which the Workers' Party was with and designed itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e900	For me, consistency is an important part of legal certainty, because consistency means that one treats the same issues the same way. It is a challenge if one opens the discretionary room too much, because it could allow for discrimination. Then there's a well-known balance in all of the jussies that a person just has to have a margin because he can't regulate everything in detail. I've never said anything about being rigid. There is a name that the left will choose to use. What I am most satisfied with is that, at last, after a year and a half – and the representative of Skkelstad gets to take his part in the honor of – we have managed to find a solution that will clean up this chaos, this mess, and get the hopes of those who thought they were going to stay in Norway, so that they know if they are going to live and build their lives here or have to go home to their homeland. I'm happy that we're getting in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e909	The cord shift is over. We're going back to the regular list of speakers. The rapporteur has now arrived at the Chamber. The President then gives the floor to the President-in-Office, Mr S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e914	First of all, I have understood that it is important to distinguish between planning an article and participating in the debate, so I am sorry that I was late. This is a very important matter for the Christian People's Party. The majority today are debating a matter that has been a lot of attention in recent months. The theme of the proposal for a representative we are discussing today has also been discussed in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. In this way, SV, with its proposal, has put an important issue on the agenda – many have thought the same thing. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation and the flexibility shown in relation to deadlines in this matter, so that the matter is addressed in the best possible way. I allow myself in the rest of my post to explain the Christian People's Party's position on the matter, and I understand that the other parties will do the same, related to their positions and views. The Christian People's Party wants a predictable, humane and fair asylum and immigration policy. That is why we have fought for a more humane policy in this area at home, both through the cooperation agreement, through our own asylum agreements and in budgetary terms. It is particularly important for us to ensure that asylum-seekers are properly cared for and that the best for children is the basis for dealing with issues involving young people. We meant the treatment of the long-term asylum children we saw under the red-green government, not providing the children in a good enough way. That is exactly why it was important that we, together with the government parties and the Left, make changes in order to bring about a more humane treatment of long-term asylum children. This was shown to be understood at the time of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, first by a one-off solution for a group of long-term children and their immediate family, and so far, when this is written, 30 families, 72 children, have been allowed under new § 8-13 of the foreign regulation, and then through the foreign regulations § 8-5, which entered into force on 8 December 2014. So 36 families have been allowed to stay after the cases have been tried against the regulation, which entered into force on 8 December 2014. This shows that the cooperation agreement and the asylum agreement have provided for a more liberal and humane treatment of long-term asylum children. We are pleased with that in the Christian People's Party, but in our opinion the long-term change should have taken place earlier. We reacted strongly when we received information that several long-term asylum children who could have been allowed to stay in Norway after the new legislation could have been sent out of the country before the new regulation came into force. This was not the intention of the agreement. Therefore, and precisely for that reason, it is crucial for us that the situation is corrected by the fact that these children who have been sent are re-treated. That is why I am pleased that the Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party finally reached an agreement on an agreement that gives the long-term asylum children who have been transported between 1 July 2014 and 18 March 2015 who have been in Norway for more than four years, the opportunity to re-examine their case in accordance with new legislation. In this way, our contribution seems to have changed practices in Norway. It's a better situation for asylum children, and it's been the Christian People's Party's foremost fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e936	The first additional agreement concluded to the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left states that the amendment to the Regulation on long-term children should be based on the inclusion of children who have been in Norway for four and a half years. In the new supplementary agreement, the definition of ‘long-term child’ is set at four years. What's the reason for this difference? Does the representative Tuskedal think that it is right to use an exact number of years and months to define the relationship that young people have with the country and that we are to maintain through this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e941	It is that when we have set an exact number of years, it is a result of the negotiations that have been going on. In this context, we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that what is mentioned as four and a half years has come down to four years. We think that is positive. But of course, we believe that setting an exact limit does not mean that this is a political victory for anyone, because there are many sad cases when a limit is set, which we would like to have been set even lower. I assume that practices around this are being implemented in a humane way, which takes care of specific cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e946	Let me congratulate the representative Tuskedal and the Christian People's Party on a long-standing commitment to the long-term asylum children. However, the agreement of 8 April also contains a number of restrictions, such as: Government Party The Advance Party is committed to describing as clear restraints. My question is simply: can the Christian People's Party stand behind and defend the restraints made in the supplementary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e953	The Christian People's Party stands behind the agreement, we do. But it's only part of the agreement that we've fought for. That's how it'll always be when a small party meets the big ones and gets through its affairs. Then we're happy with what we've got. So it's like those who got through their things, obviously have played it out. We have been able to see through to other things that we think are important, lasting legal certainty mechanisms, which go on quality, and which also allow non-governmental organisations to help. So there are many things that we've got through, but that we haven't sold out, precisely because of what I said in the previous case. This is not a great victory, for there are many who are not allowed to be, and it is worrying. But this is an improvement in the right direction, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e961	The agreement conferring the right to re-examine these cases involving young people who have been in Norway for more than four years has a counter-performance in the form of regulatory tightening in order to impose family reunification requirements. It could also include many young people, as the Christian People's Party says, being the main priority in this work on the liberalisation of asylum policy. Does the Christian People's Party have an overview of the consequences of the tightening up of family reunification legislation for young people, and how many young people can be affected by this tightening?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e966	That's a good question, and that's a difficult thing. When it is reduced from twelve to six months, it is clear that it has consequences. However, before it is introduced, it is necessary to recognise whether it is possible to implement the mitigation under international conventions to which Norway is obliged. That's the first one. The second is that we now have regular meetings in cooperation with the government where we review these details. The agreements are to be evaluated after one year, and we will follow closely the developments precisely in the matter on which the representative points.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e971	I know that the Christian People's Party fights exactly the same fight that SV does in these matters, and we have done that before. On several occasions in Stortinget, we have been together and secured arrangements – in 2004 when 102 out of 104 families stayed and in 2007 when 1,000 children stayed. I do not doubt the will, but I have begun to doubt the ability or the overview of the consequences – as the representative Heidi Greni just said – because the first agreement that was concluded was, after all, a tightening, a strong tightening that was oversold as a liberalisation. It was not possible until the Council of State was taken to misinformed the Storting about what he had actually done, namely that the long-term children had been sent out. My question is, does not the Christian People's Party have an overview of the consequences of the agreements they enter into before they enter into them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e976	I can reassure SV that we are doing the best we can on the basis of legal competence and on the basis of our moral leadership that we are trying to hold high – this with human dignity at the centre. Then we try to figure out the consequences as best we can when we make agreements. That's why we've got the passus that I mentioned in the last line change, that we're going to evaluate this continuously, and after one year we're going to evaluate the entire scheme. It's part of the government agreement. We're happy to have that in place. So I can remember that it's clear this is a difficult landscape to go into when we know that three out of four Nordics have voted on parties that want a tight immigration policy. We share that view far on the way, but our focus has been on the long-term asylum children at the time of the conclusion of these agreements, and we will follow that matter very closely. I can promise SV and hope for a good cooperation on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e981	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e984	On 8 December 2014, the amendments to the Foreign Regulation referred to as ‘long-term children’ entered into force. The purpose of this change is that the best interests of the child should be given greater weight in the balance against immigration-regulating considerations than has been the case in the past. It is particularly important that the best care is given to the child in matters relating to children who have lived in Norway for a long time. This will lead to fewer children being sent out of the country now than under red-green rule. On 1 July the Government introduced a one-off solution for a group of long-term children and their immediate family. The one-off solution was a follow-up to the cooperation agreement and to the agreement on implementation points in the foreign field between the cooperation parties. So far, 107 children have been treated after the one-off solution. 61 children have stayed. The proportion of children who have converted their case after the one-off solution is as far as 57 pst. There are still 65 families waiting to have their cases processed. The Cooperation Agreement and the Asylum Agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have provided the basis for a more humane treatment of long-term children through the changes in the Foreign Regulation. This is a real and noticeable change in relation to the policy of the red-green government over its eight years. Furthermore, in the so-called additional agreement to the cooperation agreement between the four parties, it is agreed that families with children who have been transported between 1 July and 18 March 2015 will have to re-test their case under a new regulation. It is important that good information is also now provided on changes in the rules to those concerned and that access to resources is not, in itself, essential for this. Therefore, the foreign authorities, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, are now starting work on making direct contact with the families concerned. In addition, there is no doubt that the changes in Section 8-5 of the Foreign Regulation have been widely mentioned in the media, but I stress that it is also important to try to visit the families. The cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party has led us towards a more liberal and humane treatment. I thank the partners for the talks we have had, and the solution we have come up with. It's a pleasure that we've come to where we are today, and I'm proud of the job we can now do for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1007	It's interesting to hear that the Right is very busy telling about the differences now and under the government of Stoltenberg II, for I can't remember that the Right was especially concerned with promoting any proposal or arguing for a practice change then when it was about the long-term asylum child. But I have two questions for the representative. One was triggered by the reply from the representative Jensen, who wondered if it was such that the Workers' Party believed that matters should be settled according to the applicable legislation. My question to the Right is: Does the Right believe that matters should be settled according to the applicable law at all times, as in principle as a general rule? That's the one question. The second is that the additional agreement on the foreign field between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party was ready in autumn 2013. Why did it take a whole year to put in place a regulation to actually practise the policy that was agreed upon?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1016	Now I have to remind the representative that the question to the representative Jensen was about the Workers' Party's turnaround – almost from one week to another. The right has always meant that the current legislation will apply, and we have had a good dialogue with our partners and come up with a better solution than the red-green ones had. We've worked to get a better solution. The working party sat quite still in the boat and jumped on when the solution was ready. That was what Jensen's representative pointed to. In terms of time use: yes, we've spent time on this dialogue, and we've spent time negotiating, because it hasn't been a simple matter, it hasn't been a simple question, and it hasn't been a simple answer. But I am pleased that when we finally reached a result, it is a much better result than that of the previous government, for which the representative Sivertsen stands here on behalf of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1023	In the recently concluded agreement between the Cooperation Parties and the Government, there is a separate section on the legal certainty of children. Its name is, among other things, that a clarification should be included in the dialogue with the POD on the achievement of the transport target, and I quote: ‘It is important to ensure that the targets are met, but the Department obviously requires that fundamental human considerations be taken into account in the work of the Agency in these matters as well.’ I read this clarification as a criticism of the Ministry of Justice and Foreign Affairs in their efforts to reach targets for transport by selecting the weakest long-term children, which are the easiest to transport. Does the representative agree with me?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1034	I do not agree with the premise for the question when Heidi Greni believes that the government has had as an independent goal to send out the weakest, and almost believes that there has been a principle in which one tries to circumvent and undermine the legal certainty of the children. On the contrary, we have followed the current legislation, and in cooperation with our cooperation parties we have negotiated a solution that will provide a much better, more liberal and more humane procedure, for the future of the children, than that of the Centre itself when they were in government. I do not accept the premise that we have had our own goal of going after the helpless. The kind of definitions about children I want to ask myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1039	Can the representative Kapur then explain to me why this section was included in the new agreement: ‘It is important to ensure that the targets are met, but the Department obviously requires that fundamental human considerations be taken into account in the work of the Agency in these matters as well.’ Does that not mean that it is precisely stated in the agreement that it was not practiced prior to that agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1049	The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1054	Now I think we're at the heart of the matter, because what was the starting point here was that a new policy was announced. An agreement was entered into that was a restriction. In the meantime, very many long-term asylum children were sent out, contrary to what the Minister of Justice said to the Stortinget, namely that it was no longer a priority, and the alarm clocks went, and the Right set the mouse still, as quietly as the Workers' Party, perhaps even quieter. Didn't this one single time Right to wonder what it was that was really going on? And it has become known that the police were asked to give priority to broadcasts, and the police responded to the Ministry of Justice: then we have to go to the receptions and send out the long-term asylum children from Nigeria and Afghanistan. This was known, it should be known by the government, and it should be known by the government parties. So then there's reason to ask: why didn't the right-hand side get an agreement before, so that you could have stopped these shipments? Some of the children who have been exposed to it may now have to come back again. We're happy about that, but it could have been a much more humane treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1059	The problem with the representative Karin Andersen's argument is this: she is satisfied with the solution – it almost seems as if she is most dissatisfied with the fact that they did not get it to themselves. So that's saying that the right hand side, along with the other parts, has been constantly working to get a solution in place. It's now in place, and it's much better than the one we've had before, and we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1066	The representative Kapur is skipping the start. The start was that a new policy was promised, but negotiated an agreement that was a strong tightening. It was said by everyone who saw the agreement, but no one would listen to it, and it was not possible for the Left and Christian People's Party to find a solution with the government before the Minister of Justice had been taken to misinformed the Storting. What was the reason why the Right did not put the foot down before and got the broadcasts stopped, so that fewer were sent out, and you could get the code in place – so that they were not first sent out, and then got their case processed afterwards, as SV suggested in Stortinget that we should do, and as the Right and the Minister of Justice persuaded all the parties to vote against? In retrospect, it turned out that the reason was not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1073	I almost have to repeat my answer from instead. The right and all the other cooperation parties were committed to finding a solution, and it is not going to lower their feet to their own partners. We were committed to finding a solution, a lastingly good solution for long-term asylum children and a one-off solution for children as well. Now it's in place, and it's now better than it was. I should almost have wanted to ask the representative back: is she herself satisfied, if she compares this solution to the one she herself was in when she and SV ruled with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1078	That's going to have to be the answer, because the line change is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1081	The agreement entered into by the government parties with the Left and Christian People's Party on the immigration field has two supporting beams and two main principles. On the one hand, there are considerable contractions in a number of areas, and on the other hand, there are decorations. We in the Progress Party are well pleased with both the contractions and the decorations, which are a direct result of misguided policies over very many years. We in the Progress Party also see the unfairness of the fact that children who have lived in Norway over many years, as a result of having had a government that has not been able to enforce Norwegian laws and regulations – as the new government does – must at some point gain peace and have to clarify its situation. Two of the decorations in the agreement we have entered into with our partners are the one-off solution, which came into place last summer, and the permanent scheme for long-term children, which entered into force on 8 December 2014. The purpose of the amendment, resulting from the asylum agreement between the four co-operation parties, is to give greater weight to the best interests of the child than previous practices. I react to the fact that several of the speakers, but also asked questions, put it as if the Minister of Justice had misinformed, or even misinformed, as the representative of the Workers' Party did. The reality is that the letter of assignment was sent from the Minister of Justice. One cannot accuse a Minister of Justice who has sent an award letter, in line with what is agreed and the policy further, of trying to cheat or hide. The error occurs by not converting this letter of assignment into a letter of disposition and forwarding it. This is the Minister of Justice completely open and honest about from Stortinget's pulpit. He apologizes for the error that has occurred as a result of the fact that it has not gone to the underlying offices. There is therefore no untruth, there is no attempt to trick our partners or to keep anything hidden, rather on the contrary, for the Minister of Justice stressed repeatedly that everything that is happening in this field is his responsibility. The reason he explained where the error was is that he is honest, and it was important to find out how this error could occur. When such a mistake occurs, we in the Progress Party think it is fair and reasonable that we also contribute to remedy it. For us, it is important to comply with all the agreements that we have concluded. Therefore, on 8 April 2015, the Government Parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, concluded an additional agreement to the regulation of 8 December. This agreement provides that children transported from 1 July 2014 to 18 March 2015 are to be given the opportunity to have their cases re-tested under a new regulation. It is a condition for a new test that the child has been in Norway for more than four years and has not already been tried under the foreign regulations § 8-5, which was adopted on 8 December. Thus, both of the two points of the agreement that were important to our partners are met: both the one-off solution and the permanent solution. When we see what it has resulted in, we see that so far 107 children have been treated after the one-off solution and 61 children have stayed. The proportion of children who have converted their case after the one-off solution is so far 57 pst. There are still 65 families waiting to have matters processed in the UN, so the number of people staying after the one-off solution is likely to rise in the future. This too clearly shows that we are complying with our agreements. The significant achievements of both the Left and the Christian People's Party in this agreement give results according to what they wanted. Unlike other parties that have been very concerned about, rhetorically, that they are on the side of children and want to make changes, the Christian People's Party and the Left have actually made significant changes that bring results to real people. This has been a demanding matter for the cooperation parties. All parties have had to give and take part in this process. I am therefore pleased to be able to land on a balanced solution in the spirit of the original cooperation agreement, with restrictions on the one hand, which are necessary, and decorations on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1103	Now, on 19 May, Stortinget has the full opportunity to deal with the matter from the Control and Constitutional Committee, so we don't need to go into it any further. But I'm glad that the representative Keshvari also shows considerable commitment to the pulpit. He was in the midst of one support, as he called it, in the contract work, which was considerable inadequacies. I wonder which of these contractions Keshvari is so pleased with. And can he tell Stortinget what practical consequences we'll see of these contractions? The second claim in the post of the representative that I think is very interesting is that this government, unlike the previous one, according to the representative, enforces laws and rules, and then the declared long-term child of asylum. Does this mean that for the future we will not see more things with long-term asylum children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1111	I am very pleased with the fullness of the agreement we have received and the combination of all the constraints. It is clear that in this field things are very closely linked. One of the most important things we have been given is a two-thirds of the reception structure, where we have integration reception for those who have been given residence and are going to be in Norway, and return reception for those who have been refused and are going out of the country. When it comes to the results of these contractions, we see it clearly already now. In 2014, there was an increase in asylum seekers to Europe of 56 p.m., while Norway had a decrease of 4 p.m. It shows that the claims that came from the Workers' Party and from everyone else before the Progress Party came into government, namely that it is impossible to do anything about the influx of asylum, it only depends on what is going on in the world around us, is not correct. The sum of all these mitigations has produced a result that allows us to achieve more sustainable immigration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1118	The representative did not answer any of the questions I asked, so I take the opportunity to repeat them. I understand then that the representative does not have any restrictions with which he is particularly satisfied, with which he wants to promote the importance of the Storting, and what practical consequences it has. The second question was very concrete. When we talk about law enforcement, is it such that the representative Keshvari can guarantee that there are no more cases of long-term asylum children, since we have now received a government to enforce laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1125	I've repeatedly highlighted the things that are tightening up, that I'm satisfied with. I can mention closed reception of asylum, which was an impossibility, and as Minister of Justice Grete Faremo of the Labour Party thought would be a violation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and what was worse. I can mention record shipments with a target of 10 to 100 this year. I can mention the 24th age limit. I can mention increased maintenance requirements. I can continue with the whole list. That's why I'm saying it's the whole thing that's important, and it's the one that's given the result. When it comes to enforcing laws and regulations, there is a very clear prerequisite for us not to have people living in limbo here in the future. If you come to Norway, you have to be treated with respect, in a proper, thorough and dignified way and have your protection needs assessed. And if you don't have protection needs, we demand the same respect back. That's why we have return centres, so that people, especially those with children, can return as quickly as possible and resume their lives, and school, while they have something to come back to, and not stay here for many years, as they stayed under the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1132	I believe to have recorded that the view of the Progress Party is that the establishment of a minority government has strengthened democracy by making political processes more open and strengthening the role of the Stortinge. The new Asylum Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left has agreed on a system of permanent meetings between the party leaders of the Cooperation Parties and the responsible State Council for Asylum and Immigration Policy. The most special feature of this scheme is that it also opens up the participation of the government in these meetings. Does this mean that the cooperation parties are to be closed into enclosed spaces together with the government's offices to find solutions to conflicts in asylum and immigration policy? I find it difficult to see that this is part of a more democratic and open decision-making process between government and enlargement. Does the representative agree with me?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1141	I do not agree with any of the speakers here, because that is not correct. The meetings of the party leaders with the Minister of Justice will follow up on the part of the agreement that we agree on. It does not imply the introduction of any secret government by Norway, nor the lock-up or lock-up of anyone. The government doesn't have that kind of needs. But it is quite natural that when you make agreements with parties, and in areas that are very demanding, you have follow-up meetings, that you have a dialogue with each other, and that you have a dialogue in advance and after new regulations, laws and changes, so that it is in line with what you have agreed on. So what these dialogue meetings are about is probably not as scary and scary as the representative has perceived it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1148	Nobody wonders whether the Progress Party wants a more stringent immigration policy, we know that they do, and that in this area they have never been a champion of long-term asylum children, or anyone else, for that matter. It may therefore be interesting to hear whether the representative can say a little about the original agreement that was concluded when the government agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party. For it was only necessary to look at that agreement – even though the Christian People's Party rejoiced that it was a very good agreement, and so did the Left, to realize that there had been a finger in the game in the Progress Party and a formulation that would mean a strong tightening for the long-term asylum children, namely the passport that the parents had to cooperate in order for the assessment to be made more humane. Then the question is, Did the Progress Party know this? And was it a deliberate tightening that the Progress Party would have wanted in asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1157	The premise for the question, that the Progress Party has never cared about anyone in this case, I take a strong distance from. On the contrary, the Progress Party has been very concerned about increasing respect for the institution of asylum, for the Convention on Refugees, and that is why we believe that certain restrictions are necessary. That is why we are committed to returning those who do not have the right to protection and stay in Norway, in order to release resources to those who are actually persecuted and need protection. There are a lot of them in the world. So that part is wrong. With regard to the issue of the original agreement, it is clear which areas we wanted to tighten up. There is no trickery on the part of the Progress Party. The two main embellishment points of the original agreement are the one-off solution for long-term children, who have been implemented and with whom the cooperation parties are satisfied, and the second is the amendment of the regulation on permanent arrangements. Both of them are in place. There's no attempt from anyone to trick anyone here. In return, we've got a lot of contractions on other points. That's where the contractions are, not in these.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1164	I feel that the Progress Party is trying to obscure reality. The agreement on embellishment for the long-term children was a strong tightening in its wording. The hearings showed this, and it was only necessary. One hour to look at it to understand that that's what it was. The problem when you were going to put this into practice in a proper agreement was that it knew everyone – I guess the Progress Party knew that too. The state councils knew it was guaranteed. Thus, an agreement was not put in place that was in line with the intention, but on the contrary, it was stated and looked at that the Ministry of Justice transported many more long-term families of children to, among other things. Afghanistan while the negotiations went out on time. This is a very bad treatment for the long-term asylum-seekers. Does the representative therefore think that it would have been better to put these matters at risk until the new regulation was put in place, as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1171	I have to repeat my previous answer, that there's a premise here that we've been trying to trick someone. The issues that Andersen's representative addresses are a little bit of an explanation of why it took time to get a regulation in place and a solution to it. It is clear that it needs to be consulted – it takes time. The whole point of the consultation is to get the feedback that is needed from professional organisations and others. Secondly, you have to sit down, based on what you've heard from the hearing, and see if you need to make some changes, so that it is done in the agreement. If there had been any attempt at deception, as the representative from SV almost states, we would never have sat down with people. The whole reason it took some time was that you were going to put all of these things in place. And then I think it's a little strange that we, who have got a solution to this, are criticized for taking a few months too long, all the time the representative's own party put eight years into a majority government without doing anything for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1176	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1179	The importance of children's best in asylum and immigration policy has been mentioned as important by all parties here in the Chamber, but in the last year we have really experienced that agreement on words does not always mean agreement on politics. I am afraid today's debate will not give us the clarifications that many are waiting for. We do not yet know how the agreement concluded between the government and the cooperation parties here on the Storting will turn out in practice. However, from the centre party we are pleased with the agreement that ensures that long-term children who were transported in violation of the intentions of concluded agreements are now allowed to re-test their cases. We can in principle see the unfortunate fact that regulations give retroactive effect, but in this case it is both right and fair. In parallel with the fact that Stortinget was informed that there would be an embellishment in practice for forced repatriation of long-term asylum children, we experienced that the broadcast of this particular group doubled compared to previous practice. There's every reason to respond. The person who deals with the situation in the case we are dealing with will have to wonder that there is no majority for any of the proposals being put forward. The SV and the Center Party are alone in making concrete proposals. The final decision by Stortinget will be that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Minutes. The committee procedure has also been special. I have rarely experienced so much postponement and so much restraint from the various parties in promoting their views. We know the reason for this. It is that, after the proposal for a representative was promoted, discussions between the government parties and the cooperation parties continued to arrive at agreed solutions that would replace the very critical way in which the government has worked on adjusted policies for long-term asylum children. The cooperation parties state in a note: ‘The majority indicate that the cooperation agreement and the asylum agreement have taken effect towards a more liberal and humane treatment of long-term asylum children.’ They fail to say that there is a lack of follow-up to these agreements that has created the obvious dissatisfaction it is to the Ministry of Justice and their follow-up to what should be agreed policies. The SV representative proposal does not lead to a majority for a new policy, but it has clearly contributed to speeding up the process of obtaining the supplementary agreement to the co-operation agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It shall be highly commended by the proposers. Then I will continue to wonder that the contractual practices between the government and their cooperation parties here at Stortinget are so poorly thought that supplementary agreements to the previously concluded ancillary agreements are necessary. The Centre Party has made two separate proposals for decisions in the case. We ask the government to ensure that long-term asylum children sent out after 1 July 2014 and until today will be re-tested in accordance with new legislation. On 1 July it was chosen as a limit because it was at the time when UDI’s recommendations on change of practice were made. These have only been followed up by the government this year. It is not essential, but it is nevertheless worth recording that most of the broadcasts of long-term children in 2014 occurred in the second half of the year. I am registering that the central party will be the result of the government parties and the cooperation parties in the reassessment requirement for long-term children sent after 1 July. This is not the case in the committee configuration but in the new agreement. I am pleased with this decision, although I am in doubt that the four-year limit is a proper consideration of what should be defined. In the past, three years have been used, in a new regulation four and a half years. The reality is that the link with Norway does not depend solely on years. In our second proposal, the Stortinget is asked for the government to incorporate a provision in the foreign regulation to make an up-to-date assessment of the conditions for sending asylum seekers when the implementation takes place for a long time after the decision has been taken. This is a follow-up to the proposals we received in the hearing, which are supported by several organisations. SV has made a similar proposal. In the open hearing, NOAS indicated that we today have provisions in the foreign regulation that a new assessment is to be made, but only those who are expelled under the criminal law, not the ones that apply here. The need for such an assessment is, of course, at least the same in these cases. There may be new information relating to the life situation of those being transported or new circumstances in the country of origin. We have been through a difficult year with too much uncertainty [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1211	Then I'm afraid the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1214	Then I must finally be allowed to take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1219	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1222	First, I would like to commend the initiative for SV in an area where the Left, Christian People's Party and SV often stand alone. SV was important for us to arrive at, and this proposal for a representative has definitely helped to put in place a solution for the asylum-seekers. For the Left, it was important to ensure that all children who could be expected to be covered by the decoration of the asylum child legislation that we had in place in December are covered by the scheme. Therefore, children who were sent out with a residence period of more than four years will have the right to have their case assessed in accordance with a new regulation. This does not mean that an automatic stay will be provided, but we guarantee the right to have the matter reviewed. 60 children were re-assessed after the new liberal legislation we got in place in December. These are children who have been rejected, and who have been sent out of the country, who are now getting a new chance. It is not going to come from the fact that the Progress Party has also had an impact. Some of them I'm going to be so honest to say that we would have liked to be there. That's the way it is when you make agreements. It was necessary to have a majority in order for the returned asylum children to be given the opportunity to have their cases re-examined. That's how we saw it over and over here, the only way to make a deal. One of the achievements of the Progress Party was a change in the notification deadline, which has been extended to several countries today, from 12 to 6 months for family reunification without a residence requirement. As has been achieved in the media, there is disagreement as to whether this is in practice a liberalisation or a tightening. As of today, the family abroad is subject to reporting obligations. However, the agreement provides for the notification requirement to apply to the refugee in Norway. It is an understanding of the agreement for which the Right and Advance Party have expressed an understanding. So what becomes the final solution remains to be seen. In any case, we can rest assured that there is no need to tighten up the right to family reunification without a maintenance requirement, which means that the right to family reunification is no longer a reality. The derogations are already good and they are not subject to any changes. The restrictions on family reunification apply only in the case of multi-series. The Foreign Affairs Act already provides for this, and other measures against multinationals also welcome the Left. I have also not registered that we have received any criticism in this area. Finally, we have agreed in the agreement that UDI should be used for the follow-up to the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act on the reassessment of the need for protection before permanent residence. This does not mean that the legal basis for refusing permanent residence is changed. Any change in practice must take place in a different way. The agreement shall cover only budgetary resources for any procedure. It is difficult to know in advance what kind of meaning that point of agreement will have in practice. Asylum lawyer Arild Humlen believes that the intrusions will not be of great importance in practice. He says to Dagbladet on April 9th: ‘If you have asylum, the strict rules of the Refugee Convention are to withdraw it. In the 30 years I've worked, I can't imagine situations where it's been. Where there have been such changes in the situation in the home country. Perhaps after the end of the apartheid regime in South Africa.’ International rules set clear frameworks that also need to be addressed by others. The refugee convention is part of that framework and there is no room for agreement on any important provisions in this respect. We therefore do not share the concerns expressed by others on that point, but we follow up the agreement. We have a close dialogue with the ministry and are involved in its implementation. Through the asylum agreements, the Left has helped to ensure that 152 children with previous refusals have been allowed to stay in Norway. The one-off solution, which was a single amnesty for a group of asylum children, has given 72 children as of 10 April this year. From this pulpit, the representative Heidi Greni raids that this is nothing new. No, no, no, no, no, It is an amnesty that has secured residence for children who would otherwise have been sent out of the country, an amnesty for which there was initially no majority on the Stortinget, for the Right, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party were opposed. But we're moving the majority and using power on what we think is most important. 80 children were allowed to stay on 10 April after being evaluated after the permanent liberalisation we had in place in December last year. A lasting solution for long-term asylum children is important – a solution that works, which is made because the child’s best is crucial. Through our cooperation with the government, we have put in place a more relaxed and humane policy towards children who have been here for a long time and who hardly know any country other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1254	Let me also start by congratulating the Left – as they express it themselves – on having had an impact on an important issue in their policy. But I am sure that the representative of Skkelstad also notices that the representative Keshvari of the Progress Party has a – let's say – slightly different description of what this agreement involves, and emphasizes other things. But I only have one question to the Left, because the Left took the initiative at some point in political discussions on this matter with the Labour Party. There we agreed that the Left would come back with a proposal for concrete solutions. It did not follow the Left up, and my question is just: Why did not the Left follow up the agreement you had with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1261	It is right that the representative Sivertsen here points out that we took the initiative in two rounds – with Helga Pedersen and not least with Eirik Sivertsen – and we were then to come back. But in the meantime, before we had the opportunity to come back, Eirik Sivertsen had told the media that there was no current issue in the policy area to review it. In the rotunda here, the same Sivertsen tells me that this interview was given in advance, but I did not know that. And if it was so imperative for the Workers' Party to meet us, there was probably both telephone, e-mail and SMS, and it is even possible to talk to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1266	My point of addressing this matter is just to correct the impression that the public may have got that the Workers' Party will not follow up the political invitations and agreements we have. But let me ask the representative, Mr Skelstad, what he thinks about the tightening up of the agreement, and that is really the same question that I asked the representative, Tuskedal: Is it so that the representative, Mr Skelstad, is in favour and will defend the tightening up of the supplementary agreement and open up to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1273	In line with the Tuskedal representative, I would say that it is clear that some of the restrictions, and as I also pointed out in my post, are definitely not the desired policy from the Left. But we prioritised our work on this that child was the most important thing to put in place, and we got that in place, which maybe also the representative Sivertsen could enjoy, because this is a far brighter and more liberal policy than what the representative Sivertsen was at when they were in government the last time. Then I see that there is a rustier policy in the field of the Workers' Party in their national meeting, and I hope that it may be the end of visas, but today the Workers' Party alone is the most rigid party in immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1280	I would like to ask the same question as I asked the representative of the Christian People's Party, for the agreement that has been concluded, because there is a counter-performance in terms of tightening the legislation to impose family reunification requirements. It could also include many young people, as the Left says, being the main priority in their efforts to liberalise asylum policy. Does the Left have an overview of how many kids this applies, and what consequences will this have for them? The response of the Christian People's Party could be interpreted in such a way that they hoped this would be contrary to international agreements, and that they did not make any assessment of it until it was resolved. Does the Left share that vision as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1287	From the pulpit instead, the representative said that there was no new policy that mattered. For my part, it's very important, all of the children that we've now got in place, who are coming to us. I understand that the representative of Mr Greni clearly believes that in many ways it is immaterial, but it is definitely not immaterial for a social-liberal party like the Left. And the centre party is probably not the party that has a push on, even though I saw it was good paces also in connection with SV's proposal. I just have to be allowed to say that these rounds are necessary to come back to, and as the representative Tuskedal says, we are not proceeding from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1293	Then I tried again, because the representative was not about my question in the answer. The question is quite simply: is there any person who has an overview of the impact of the tightening of family reunification legislation on young people, or is it such that the Left too hopes that this is contrary to international agreements and will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1298	I don't know if I have to repeat myself for the third time with what I started with. I also said what was the tightening that was part of the agreement. The representative Tuskedal indicated that this must also be seen in relation to international law. As of today, we do not have an overview of what the status of it is. But I would also like to point out what Mr Greni pointed out from the Chair, that she felt the great breakthrough both with the one-off solution and not least the number of children who are now staying was insignificant.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1303	Left, SV and I also believe that the Christian People's Party could fully agree on the policy in these areas. We're very much in agreement, and we've been to several crossroads before, among other things. when we introduced new changes in 2004, and when we set up a scheme in 2007 where 1000 children stayed. I understand the situation when you make an agreement that also has pages you don't like. Sometimes they're so serious that you take this one's. It did SV in government on some of these matters. I just hope that the Left can remember every time they refer to the eight previous years, that there was a difference in that government as well. The fullness of the agreement currently concluded contains some points of increased legal certainty. That's good. However, the budget cuts in the amount of legal certainty subsidies to these very groups. Is that what the Left wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1310	This applies to the agreement, we do not carry out the budgetary procedure. But I'm going to give the honor to SV for their input to this, because there is no doubt that SV has contributed strongly to the fact that through this document we have put in place an agreement that we believe is going in the right direction. Then it's like when you work together, you don't always get through for everything. We're not part of the government. Either we make an agreement, or we don't make it. Distinguishing – I don't know if it's brought the policy so much longer. What has definitely led us a few steps further is that this is a significant improvement in the situation of the children, which I am absolutely certain is that SV is also happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1318	Then I want to start by presenting the suggestions from SV in the setting. The history of the long-term asylum children is both long and bad. It has made us acquainted with many children who have become Norwegian and become rooty, who do not know about any other home country, and who have lived for years with unsafe and rescued parents. I think many saw the total inhumane in the practice of asylum when Neda in 12 years saw us in the eyes and said: I like Norway, but Norway doesn't like me. Children are not responsible for the actions of adults, nor are they responsible for the actions of their parents. They have their own rights and needs, and through the Children's Convention we have committed ourselves to them. There is and was a need for better practice in this area. It has also been shown that the Association of Lawyers and Legal Aid Officers that have been carried out, because when the cases have come to court, several have won. It proves that the administration has also been too strict. We took a look at this in the big message Children on the run. There was a slight improvement. The agreement that came into place in the end was an improvement. But the story was bad. It started with the government entering into an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, which they said was a strong liberalisation, and which turned out to be a strong tightening. Time elapsed and transmission increased. The government had a one-sided focus on getting the most out, and the police warned that if you were to get the return numbers, you would have to send out the long-term asylum children. The Minister of Justice knew that. Nevertheless, he said in Stortinget when SV proposed that these matters should be suspended until this new legislation was put in place, as we have done all the time before we changed the legislation, that the practice had changed, and that the police had no longer ordered to send these long-term families out. It was not correct, it was not followed up, but the other points were followed up. And there's going to be a control case here on 19 May. This was the background for, at least as I have understood it, the position of the Left and the position of the Christian People's Party, that they did not vote in favour of the proposals to put these matters at risk. Then they had not sent these families out of the country. They could have been here and had their cases dealt with according to the regulation that has now been adopted, without having to experience the trauma of being sent out. Because it's traumatic to be sent out after you've turned your head off in Norway. When these broadcasts increased, SV called out several times. We finally saw the need to promote these proposals, because there was no end to this matter. Nor did it seem that it was possible for the Left and Christian People's Party to reach this agreement before the Minister of Justice was revealed that he had not followed up what he had said in Stortinget, to order the police to another practice, and that practice had not changed. On the contrary, there was an increased pressure on sending and returning numbers that caused the number of long-term children who were sent out to double. I'm happy for what's been made of improvements now. I think I have to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for that – I don't think anyone else has contributed significantly, to be honest. That's good, but we have a long way left. Therefore, the SV in today’s proposal also promotes that when sending out some long-term families of children, they also need to look at their overall situation, because the asylum case may have changed, but especially the children’s relationship with the kingdom may have changed. This cannot be the case for those who have been here for more than four and a half years, because it is true, as many have said, that this connection can come much sooner and can be strong – it can be devastating and erroneous. So there is a need for new assessments related to the transmission of children who have been in Norway for a long time. SV is promoting these proposals today, and we're going to repeat them, because I'm afraid they're going to be voted down, sail if I know there are more parties in the Chamber that agree with the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1339	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1344	Both the representative Karin Andersen and other representatives from SV have recently used to give strong kick to their former partner in the Red-Green Government Workers' Party. Various characteristics have come up; I will not go into them. Furthermore, the representative has spent a lot of time clinging to the Left and Christian People's Party and congratulating them on their efforts. Then I remember that effort is an effort between four cooperation parties, and the new solution is made by all four. When the representative is first in the red corner, she can also give us her opinion here: Is the new arrangement now in place, more or less liberal than the SV itself, to manage then one set by a purely majority for eight years? - A simple answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1351	That's what I said in my post. I said that I am pleased with the changes that have now come. It is largely a matter of stipulating what was going on in the Children's Grand Notice, where we concluded that practice had become too strict, and that a change in practice was desired, but there was no way of agreeing in that government to change the regulations. So I'm very happy that it's come. You must have excused me, President, but I have not experienced either the Right Party or the Advance Party as any champion for this. To put it that way: not in any of the years I've been sitting on the Stortinget, I've experienced that they've been some champions neither for the long-term children nor for a more humane asylum and refugee policy. On the contrary, there has been a narrowing that has been the goal, and I feel that the Christian People's Party and the Left have fought a battle and got through those liberalisations, while the Right and the Advance Party have been tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1356	I first thank all the representative Andersen for seeing the contribution that the Christian People's Party and the Left have made. Then I want to replicate to SV that they are a clear opposition party, and they have probably been in the red-green period as well. Not always informed, but they clearly put their finger on matters that require thought, especially in this area. There's a message called Child of Flight, which is from the red-green period. Then I would like to ask a hypothetical question: does the representative Andersen think that we would have achieved the same thing that we have achieved now if the red-green government had continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1363	You don't have to answer hypothetical questions. Now the election result was as it was, and the Left and Christian People's Party chose to support a Right-Fremskritsparti-government where the Advance Party has been given care of refugee and asylum policy. There is an SV critical to, and I believe that the Christian People's Party would have achieved a lot more of its policy in this area and most areas if they had rather cooperated on the left. I am absolutely convinced of that. And then I'm absolutely convinced that we've got more than this and avoided the contractions that the Christian People's Party now has to agree to in order to get this necessary little improvement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1369	I have previously given honor to SV and Karin Andersen, for there is no one who doubts the heart layer and to see what is not good in the world around us. That is definitely what the representative Karin Andersen is doing. A reflection on this matter that I could imagine that the representative Karin Andersen had been over his former government partner, the Workers' Party, who is now in many ways standing back as a defender of current and more rigorous regulations than we have now had: does the representative Andersen believe that it would have been possible with the party that is now standing as it might least give rise to everyone in the field of asylum and immigration policy to have a similar agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1376	I feel that this is exactly the same question that the Christian People's Party asked me, and I do have the exact same answer. But I want to say that I have seen a slight change in the Workers' Party under new leadership in terms of positions on the particular refugee issue. I have experienced that the rhetoric has changed. But I am absolutely convinced that if the Left and Christian People's Party had chosen to cooperate on the left, it would have been possible to get better solutions to this and other nuclear issues, such as climate and environment, which the Left is also very concerned about, and that it would have been without the negative constraints that the Left has now had to say yes to, as part of the agreement, and which I understand you would have preferred to be without. I feel convinced that it would have been possible to do so, and that we had not seen the discarding practices that we have seen in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1383	I hear what Andersen's representative says, that she is dealing with the 'new Workers' Party' in the opposition. So some of us, not least the representative Andersen, have been involved in politics for a long time. Does the representative, Andersen, really think that there is a shift in the current most rigid party in the field of asylum and immigration policy? It's been a national meeting where there were clear signals – I'm going to be ready – but is it a ham change? After the eight years they have lost battles, which may not have completely led up to this field, which also pointed out in the previous line exchange with Mr. Sivertsen today? Does the representative, Andersen, feel sure that this is really a change of heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1390	What I feel and believe means terribly little. That's what's being done in practice, that counts. In this area, SV knows that we have to fight hard, and that there are a lot of counterpowers in the big parties. There has been an iron triangle between the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party in the asylum cases, so it remains to be seen. There are some proposals that have now come, where I am pleased that the Workers' Party has extended itself in terms of refugee policy. But we're clear that this is a game where we know we have to fight hard for these kids. I'm very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party is in it. But I have been very surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party has been willing to sit still for so long and see that a Minister of Justice from the Progress Party has increased the deployment of long-term asylum children, while training has been given an agreement to secure what was initially agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1397	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1400	I have to admit that I am tempted to use most of my posts to refute the claims made by the representative Andersen, who has a description of reality – which is also partly supported by both the Workers' Party and the Centre today – which, in my opinion, is very far from the facts. It will be dealt with in May based on an attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and I will rather refute the claims of the three parties mentioned there, and deal with what this proposal is about in my speech here today. I would like to refer to the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the foreign field, where we include. agreed to introduce two regulatory changes for long-term children. The so-called ‘one-off’ solution already entered into force on 1 July 2014, while amendments to the foreign regulation which would give a stronger emphasis to the situation of children when assessing whether to grant a residence permit entered into force on 8 December last year. Many children have already stayed in Norway as a result of these measures. I also recall that the implementation agreement between the four parties was concluded on 28 February 2014 and that is what is in a way the starting point for the further work on the two amendments. Representatives propose that long-term children who have been transported be given the opportunity to be dealt with in accordance with new legislation. The Supplementary Agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party, among other things, provided that children who had a residence period of four years or more and were transported for the period from 1 July 2014 to 18 years. March 2015 shall be given the opportunity to have their cases dealt with in accordance with new legislation by the submission of a request for conversion from the rest of the world. This part of the proposal is thus considered to be taken care of, even if there are different dates in the SV's proposal than the text of the agreement. In the additional agreement, we also found reasonable and appropriate limits to such a scheme, and by setting the limit by the fact that the children must have had four years of residence in Norway before being transported out, I believe we are catching up with those who, according to the foreign student's practice, will have a connection with Norway that can provide the basis for a residence permit. The government is working to get this scheme in place as quickly as possible. Measures will be put in place to try to reach out with information on the scheme for all the families in the target population. I therefore believe that the supplementary agreement also takes care of the interests of the children transported out in a satisfactory manner. The proposers also call for the possibility for the foreign authorities to be able to reverse decisions on their own initiative. This is a possibility for the alienation authorities to already have today, and it follows from the Administrative Act. Furthermore, the proposers request that the legal aid scheme for asylum seekers be extended with respect to long-term children and that good regulatory information be ensured. The Government, the Left and the Christian People's Party have agreed to introduce a grant scheme for non-governmental organisations contributing to the interests of long-term children, including by providing information and, where appropriate, providing legal assistance. The change in legislation has been made well known to the public. The minority of the Committee would like to introduce a provision for an up-to-date pre-dispatch assessment if more than one year has elapsed since the last assessment of the case. I remember that everyone who has been refused a stay is obliged to leave the country before the expiry of the leave period. Refusal is granted following a thorough assessment by the foreign authorities and all applicants for a stay in Norway are entitled to a two-way handling. I think it would be unfortunate to introduce a system, or a rule, that gives the impression that the foreign administration's decision is not final. In addition, I point out that the foreign authorities are continuously assessing whether the general security situation in a country requires that the exit obligation should be suspended. Then I think it is with respect to report that the representative of the SV, who has then partly taken advantage of these proposals already through a vigorous effort by the Christian People's Party and the Left, should be a little more excited than what we have been illustrated by the pulpit. I think it's very clear that these changes – despite the fact that the representative in the line change here would not wonder what things would have been like if the same majority had remained after the 2013 elections – based on the eight years of experience, show that the Christian People's Party and the Left have at least had a significantly greater impact than the SV had in the previous eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1426	I think Andersen's representative is wise when you don't wonder so much about hypothetical issues. I think maybe the Council of State should also think about that. I have two relationships that I want to discuss with the Council of State. One concerns the supplementary agreement which came on 8 April. It assumes that a law or regulation is to be put in place. My question will then be: When will this law or regulation be consulted, and when will it come into force, so that you can start dealing with these matters and get them settled, so that we can clarify the situation for the children and their families? Here's a moment. The second question: The representative Keshvari was that the previous government did not enforce the law. Is it the case that the Council of State agrees with that description from its immigration policy spokesman, and does he agree that we will not have more issues for the future about long-term asylum children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1435	The follow-up of law or regulation will come as quickly as possible. They're working on bombs in the department to get this in place. Of course, I don't want to give any concrete date, but the work has the highest priority in the ministry. As far as law enforcement is concerned, the approach of the representative Keshvari is quite good, for there has been no agreement between the asylum policy pursued and the resources made available to enforce it. This government has helped the Storting to implement measures for a speedy return and a scale that has been completely unknown in the past. There were over 7,200 forced returns in 2014, while the Labour Party government proposed 4,900 – I think it was. This means that there is a significantly greater connection between the policy that this government is pursuing with the Left and Christian People's Party and the consequences it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1442	When the Council of State says here that this work has the highest priority, I should respect the fact that one cannot set a date – that is to say good – but this is suspicious of the situation we had last summer, of when the regulations were to be put in place. That was one of the reasons why I said earlier today that afternoon clock is an exact science, as we did not go in for rescuing. What I want to challenge the Council of State once again is: it is okay that we do not get a concrete date, but what time horizon does the Council of State see separately, considering (a) when the law or regulation comes into force, and (b) when the proceedings for the matters to be reopened are completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1447	As I said, we work with this as quickly as we can, in cooperation and in close dialogue with the partners, and it is more important to me that they are satisfied with the job done in the Ministry of Justice and Defence than that the Workers' Party is. I am so careful to specify the time, because it can show up relationships, but it is quite obvious that time is absolutely crucial, and therefore this should be delivered as quickly as possible. We, in cooperation with our cooperation parties, have made a progress plan on how this should be, and we have an intention to follow up, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1455	I understand that politically it is important to be on good terms with their interlocutors, but it may also be wise to stand on good terms with the Stortinget and a broad majority there. I have full respect for the fact that you cannot set a fixed date. Let me try to put the question in a slightly different way: is it such that we can expect a law or regulation that has come into force during the summer, that is, before it has been harvested, so that the proceedings can be carried out early in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1462	I set, as I have now said several times, no date, but it is quite obvious that we are working on it in order to get rid of the legislation, so that it can come into force as quickly as possible, and so that we can get started dealing with these matters. There's no one who's earned that this is drawing out in time. It is important for us to get this as quickly as possible, and it is not a bad starting point to have before summer as a reference. As I said, I do not dare – wise of harm, I dare say – to say a concrete date, but it is our clear intention that we should be done with this work on a new regulatory framework that can come into force before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1467	The government has gradually developed a comprehensive agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the field of asylum and immigration. The additional agreement concluded this month is known as an addition to the cooperation agreement between the government and the aid lots. Then we record that there is disagreement about the counter-performances the Christian People's Party and the Left had to pay in order to get support for their demands for new treatment of matters relating to long-term children. This applies both to the impact of the amended deadline on family reunification requirements and to the means of follow-up to the Foreign Affairs Act. Whether or not to draw up a separate regulation on the basis of which persons who have been given residence are to be posted, whose circumstances in the country of origin have changed over time. The Prime Minister was here and explained earlier today, and I realized that she was skeptical about long-term temporary residence permits. It's a scepticism I share. Does the Council believe that a new practice in this area will allow for the repatriation of many? And will not such a practice cause great difficulties for the integration work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1476	If the representative refers to the point of agreement that we are to be re-treated before a permanent residence permit is granted, it is an important signal that the asylum institution is being taken seriously. The whole point of the asylum institution is to provide temporary protection. A review of the existence of the residence permit when moving from a temporary residence permit to a permanent residence permit is already provided for in the applicable Foreign Law, but not enforced by the government of which Grenis part was part. I think it makes sense to enforce the laws that this house has laid down, and I think it makes sense that an assessment of the grounds for protection is made before permanent residence is granted. That is the core area of what the whole institution of asylum is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1481	I hear the Council of State thinks so, but you're not very concerned about integration if you have that point of view. But to this matter: does the Council of State think that it would have been better that the agreement on the regulatory changes had been in place earlier, so that the children who are now sent out, and who are perhaps going to come back again, had escaped the traumatic experience? In this case, why didn't the agreement come into effect earlier? Who stood in the way of it? Finally, some of those who have now been sent out can, if the government does not get this regulation and the law in place, be abroad for quite a long time. Can the Council of State ensure that the time spent abroad should not be given weight if the case of the children is such that they will be allowed to stay under the new regulation without being included in the calculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1490	Finally, it is regulated in the agreement between the four lots, and then the date of entry into force shall be the starting point for that assessment. One does not come in a situation where time in the home Member State beyond the date of entry into force shall be in the favour of the applicant. That is the wording of the agreement in this area. So I believe that much would have been better, close to saying, if we had managed to put this regulation in place earlier. The challenge was that the four parties agreed to send them to the hearing had a hard say in the consultation round, which the representative himself has been involved in in his post and in the line changes. Corrections were necessary. It took too long, and I wish that we already had a solution at the draft that was sent to the hearing that could come into force even earlier than we actually got. Now this has been an important matter for the government to get in place, and I am happy that we have got the solutions we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1497	Is it really the case that the Minister of Justice and the Contracting Parties did not know that what they had agreed was a serious downgrading? That's what several of us said. That's what the organizations said right away. When this proposal came up, it was just tossing a glance at it to know that this was a tightening. So it would have been quite possible to start the renegotiations right away. I can't imagine in my wildest imagination that the Left and Christian People's Party had disagreed that they would sit down and renegotiate this powerful tightening on which they had somehow been led to join. Is it really the case that the Minister of Justice concluded an agreement with a strong tightening when he was not aware of the content and consequences of the agreement they put on the paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1502	I have to say that I react very strongly when a staggering representative is standing on the pulpit at Stortinget and believes that someone has let themselves be tempted to enter into agreements they would not otherwise enter into. It suggests both an intention from one party to the agreement that you want to trick someone, and that the other side would not be smart enough to understand what they are into. I think, quite frankly, that is unworthy of the discussion we have here today, and I think the representative Andersen should end up with that kind of assertion. The background to the talks and agreements concluded in the follow-up to the Nydalen Agreement is, of course, the Nydalen Agreement, which is the basis for the cooperation between the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in this area. That is what we are set to manage, that is what we followed up in that agreement, and that is what we followed up when it was sent out to the hearing. I find it very unfortunate that the kind of wording used by the representative, Andersen, is the basis of such a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1509	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1525	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1532	It is important to maintain confidence in the asylum system, and the clear rule is that refusals to apply for asylum should lead to a return, including in cases where families with children are involved. The proposers urge the Government immediately to ensure that the practices of Afghan children's families referred to internally are in line with and follow the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and UDI. In this context, I would like to refer to letters from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, dated 18 February 2015. It appears here that practices in the field as of today’s date are already in line with UDI recommendations. instructions of 30 January 2015. I must stress that neither the UDIs nor the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' Recommendations are in favour of a general return for families with children to Afghanistan. The UDI and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees also recognise that return must be possible if the institution of asylum is to retain any legitimacy. On the other hand, there are a number of criteria that need to be met before return can be recommended in specific individual cases, but it does not in any way mean that return to Afghanistan is impossible. Return is fully possible within the UN guidelines if the political will is present. Unlike the previous government, this government wants to avoid the fact that asylum seekers who have been refused live for years in Norway in great uncertainty and are then transported after many years. This is unfortunate, especially in the matters relating to children. The government wants to preserve the legitimacy of the asylum institution by effectively returning persons who are denied asylum where possible. This is also absolutely necessary in order to maintain a capacity for the care of the people who are actually persecuted. In this context, it is relevant to point out that no one has been returned in breach of UDI’s recommendation since the UDI’s practical presentation arrived at the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 1 July 2014. UDI also indicates that no children's families were returned to Afghanistan in violation of UN High Commissioner for Refugees' Recommendations from 1 January-1. ==References== The second point of the proposal is to immediately return Afghan children's families to Norway, which has been dispatched from 1 January 2014 to 18. This appropriation is intended to cover The cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the field of asylum forms the basis for the government's asylum policy. This agreement states that consideration of child-reliance should be given to the fulfilment of specific criteria. This agreement is based on thorough weighings, where a general tightening of asylum policy has been compensated by a more humane view of long-term children and as part of the necessary cleaning-up after the red-green government. In this context, I would like to refer to the agreement between the cooperation parties of 8 April 2015, where children were transported during the period from 1 July 2014 to 18. on March 2015, shall be given the opportunity to have their cases re-tested under a new regulation if specific conditions are met. It will also apply to children returned to Afghanistan. However, it is important to stress that a general repatriation of children’s families from Afghanistan is an out-of-date policy for the Progress Party and the Government, as such practice would undermine the legitimacy of the entire asylum institution – because we must have some principles that bear on institutions as important as the institution of asylum, and that is the need for protection and the requirement to be safe when persecuted. In this way, it is not possible to approach these questions in order to allow almost anyone who has managed to come to Norway — for whatever reason — to stay here and to try to find what is possible from dirtholes to water down this important institute. We have great respect for the refugee convention, and we have great respect for people who are fleeing the world today, and therefore we need to enforce these laws and rules based on principles and values that are widely accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1555	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1558	At this point there is an obvious difference between the previous and this government, namely that the previous government did not return long-term children's families to Afghanistan. It was not done because the conditions there are very serious and have become worse. The representative says that it must be a supporting element to respect the rules, but does the representative not agree that a key element of refugee and asylum policy must be that no one is exposed to what the United Nations says that children are subjected to on return to Afghanistan, namely child labour, forced marriage, child prostitution, child pornography and systematic denial of education? The UN also shows that many children are being killed. Is there not reason to have a somewhat more precautionary attitude than the representative now speaks of?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1565	The answer to that is yes. If children are at risk of being exposed to some of Andersen’s cruel representatives, there is a great deal of evidence that they actually have a need for protection in Norway. The only point is that those who are returned have been evaluated. The two important principles that must underpin internal migration in Afghanistan are that you have a network and that you have resources so that you can manage when you get back. But if we are in doubt about it, and if there is a danger that children may be exposed to that type of serious crime, they should not, of course, be sent out of Norway. But it is something other than assuming that anyone who is returned to Afghanistan is exposed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1572	It is reasonable to consider returning children’s families to a country that is in as uncertain a security situation as Afghanistan, and in particular to internal migration. That is why the United Nations has also made very clear demands on what it should be like in that case. I have gone into some of these issues – and some of them have also been stopped because there have been legal aid organisations that have been exposed and stopped the broadcasts, but in some cases this so-called contact and the safe environment in Afghanistan have been successful in finding a mobile phone number for a distant relative. These are people who have been returned, who have not been in Afghanistan for 20 to 30 years. Children who have not been in Afghanistan for many years are returned to areas they have never been and where there is no security. The Norwegian authorities have not examined this properly and safely, and it is difficult. Therefore, the previous government chose not to return [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1579	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1582	The reason why we're busy with returns, whether it's for Afghanistan or elsewhere, I explained in my first post that the most important thing to stay in Norway is the need for protection. And when people have then been given an assessment of their need for protection – and I also said that in another line change: that we should take the greatest seriousness, we should deal with these matters thoroughly, with dignity and respect for people who claim to be persecuted – and then we find that there is no need for protection, the main rule is to return. It is quite right, as the representative says, that the UN has clear guidelines on what must be at stake before returning people to Afghanistan. And based on the documentation we have received in this matter, the government adheres to these recommendations, both from the UDI and from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, on returns to Afghanistan. The general approach, it seems, is that the SV representative believes that anyone coming from Afghanistan [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1589	I must ask the representatives to observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1592	That is not what SV has proposed here in Stortinget. We have proposed that we adhere to the practice of former governments, namely that we did not use the return agreement to Afghanistan to return families with children, because it was very unsafe there. The United Nations warned and made very clear demands, which I can in no way vouch for the Norwegian authorities having examined carefully enough. It appears, among other things, that that several have been returned to the aerodrome and returned, and that several have remained when legal aid organisations have seized it. Afghanistan has also said that they cannot guarantee these families. And then it's the kids. We are now talking about long-term families of children. It was these children that the government was busy getting out of the country, because then they got high returns, but how does Keshvari see that the consideration of these children is taken care of, when this is a whole new policy [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1600	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1603	The consideration of these children has been safeguarded by the criteria of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees for return, and then the reinforcement that has been in the additional agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, for it will also deal with these children. It's important to underline. Secondly, it is right, as Andersen's representative says, that we have not suggested that there should be a general amnesty for people coming from Afghanistan. But the result, and we've also been to it in the past today, of not enforcing return to countries to which it is possible to return, is that everyone who comes from Afghanistan will stay here, because according to the argument of Andersen's representative, it is so dangerous in Afghanistan on a general basis that no one can be sent back there. And what kind of consequences would it have for Norwegian and, in particular, European asylum and refugee policy if that kind of lewd attitude to principles and laws and rules were to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1610	The Committee’s position refers to the control matter of the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee on the return of families with children to Afghanistan. As is well known, today’s government started the transport of children’s families to Afghanistan and justified the possibility of such returns. In the opinion of the Control Committee – Innst. 214 S for 2014-2015 – it is: ‘The majority of the Committee took note that on 2 March 2015, the Afghan authorities asked the Norwegian authorities to terminate the forced return of families with children to Afghanistan. [[...]] Compared to the protests in the autumn of 2014 and winter of 2014/2015, this reinforces the impression that the Norwegian authorities were taking the opportunity to significantly increase transport to Afghanistan, rather than an opening on the Afghan side.’ What is Keshvari's assessment of this statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1622	My assessment is that Norway has got a powerful government that intends to enforce all the laws and regulations in this area, not just those that are good for people to stay here. It is clear that the government, with the Progress Party at the head, has used the space for action we have, the opening rooms we have, and we are also actively working to get even more return agreements and better return agreements with even more countries, precisely because of what I was in my original post: respect for the asylum institution. The basis for the whole asylum institution is that those in need of protection and a safe port should receive it. Those who do not need protection must travel back. That's the principle that's now being enforced, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1629	If I have not misunderstood the representative Keshvari, I have the impression through the media that the representative is concerned that we should no longer accept refugees seeking asylum in Norway, and that we should only deal with quota refugees. Have I misunderstood, or is it such that the Progress Party believes that we should now preferably try to leave the institution of asylum – that we should not deal with asylum seekers, but that we should concentrate on accepting quota refugees to which the United Nations distributes?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1634	The answer to that is yes. Unfortunately, the Central Party representative is not alone in misunderstanding that, and what all those who have misunderstood and commented on my input to our editorial committee have in common is that none of them have read my recording. I have never spoken of abolishing the right to apply for asylum, the right to apply for protection. What I have mentioned in my report is that we are organising the asylum system in a different way, more closely associated with the UN and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. So if the representative from the Central Party has got the impression that I believe we should abolish the right to apply for asylum, that is wrong. But it is a mistake that I can easily forgive, as the representative is not alone about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1642	There is a broad consensus in this room that those who come to Norway and seek protection and who are entitled to it under international conventions will be allowed to do so. There is also a broad consensus that those who do not have legal residence in the kingdom must actually leave the kingdom. That's the simple part of it. This case concerns the fact that last summer the UDI requested the cessation of the return of lone minors and children’s families to Afghanistan. According to the media, humanitarian conditions were justified and children and women in particular were exposed. The point is that UDI's recommendations were not followed up by the government, and on that basis I allowed myself to ask a question to the Minister of Justice on 15 December last year. The question was: ‘What information does the Council of State have that makes him think the UDI is wrong when they claim that it is humanitarianly inadvisable to return lone minors and children’s families to Afghanistan, and how many children and adults have been sent back after the UDI requested that returns to the area cease?’ What information the ministry actually had, which meant that the Council of State would not comply with UDI's wishes, was left unanswered, and it still remains unanswered. But luckily, the Council of State has been able to inform several times that no one was returned to Afghanistan against UDI's council, and in January the government stopped returning, as UDI had requested. Some of the points here are that the government was waiting too long to follow up the recommendations that came from the UDI, and it is also not proven that there was any real basis for waiting so long to follow it up. For the Labour Party, we refer to the information repeatedly provided by the Minister of Justice, both in writing and orally, that no one has actually been sent to the Council with which the UDI came. Let me take this opportunity to stress that the recommendations of the High Commissioner for Refugees should weigh heavily, but as a nation, we must also reserve the right to have national authorities actually decide. The technical advice and assessments of the UDI shall be given decisive importance, but it is a political responsibility at the seventh stage to decide whether it is safe to return to an area or not. It also follows that we have a responsibility to make thorough assessments of the conditions to which both children — perhaps especially children — and adults are returned. On that basis, the government of Stoltenberg II chose not to return to Afghanistan because it was of the opinion that there was too much doubt and uncertainty about the situation to which it is actually returning. I take note that the government of Solberg has a different opinion, but then you also bear a rather heavy responsibility for the returns sent to you. Return agreements are an essential tool for returning those who have come to Norway and who do not leave the empire voluntarily. The government of Stoltenberg II worked very hard to get a return agreement in place, and we got almost 30 in place together. I know that it has been prioritised from this government as well. That is at least said in this Chamber. It is then worrying that in the information and the versions of statements from the Afghan authorities, as we see in the media, there is concern for some places, as if the Afghan authorities have seen Norway break the return agreement. I think my advice to the government will be to exercise caution in challenging the intent of the agreements. An agreement must be between equivalent parties and requires mutual respect. We don't have to sit in such a situation that we risk losing return agreements, which we have worked quite hard to get in place, or that we get into such a situation that we get words on ourselves as a nation that it doesn't pay to conclude return agreements with Norway. I don't think anyone in this room is interested in that. We will continue to work on developing the asylum institute. We're going to continue to work to receive refugees, and we're going to continue to work to support and accept those who need protection in this country. In this case, I am pleased that the misassessments that have been made, and the time that has passed unnecessarily, have not led – at least as far as we are able to assess it – to the fact that someone has been sent out to conditions that are not safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1667	The rapporteur has already made a thorough presentation. Let me also make some additional comments and additions. We must first establish in this room – and I think everyone agrees – that there is no disagreement across all parties around the following principle: the importance of taking child-care professional considerations is to be taken seriously, and this is particularly true in matters of long-term living and strong links with Norway. At the same time, it is important to maintain confidence in the asylum system. The clear rule is that a refusal to apply for asylum should lead to a return, including in cases where families with children are involved. I refer to the cooperation agreement between the four parties in the field of asylum. It appears from this that consideration of child-reliance should be given to the fulfilment of specific criteria. I refer to the text of the agreement in the permanent agreement for asylum seekers, which reads as follows: ‘The children’s relationship with Norway over several years of residence in Norway shall be clarified by a change in the rules which will make it more important for the foreign authorities to take into account what is scientifically sound for children. The assumption is that, as a general rule, parents have contributed to clarifying their identity and to enabling return, but that return has not been possible.’ I also refer to the Letter of 18 February 2015 from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This shows that practices in this area are now in line with UDI recommendations. I note with this that paragraph 1 of the proposal has already been complied with. It is not common to give retroactive effect to changes in practice. Furthermore, neither the UDI nor UNHCR recommendations address a general return for families with children to Afghanistan, and it is important to underline. There are a number of criteria that need to be met before the return is recommended in specific individual cases. Both the UDI and the UNHCR allow for return to domestic flight in Afghanistan if a family either has a network in the return area or has the resources to support itself, so the guidelines are clear. In this context, it becomes relevant to point out that no one has been returned in violation of UDI recommendations since it arrived at the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 1 July 2014 and the UDI indicates that no children's families were returned to Afghanistan in violation of UNHCR recommendations from 1 January to 1. ==References== With these facts in mind, we therefore believe that neither paragraph 1 nor paragraph 2 of this proposal can be followed. I would like to remind you that the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has adopted a permanent change of regulations for long-term asylum children, with greater emphasis on the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1687	In a joint remark by the government parties and the cooperation parties, they refer to the cooperation agreement between the parties and to the wording ‘that the foreign authorities pay greater attention to the issue of child-reliance’. I understand this comment – and the post – so that the parties believe that the return of families with children to refugees in Afghanistan has been sound. What is the meaning of the representative, Mr Kapur, of the UNHCR’s assessments, reference to the request for termination by the Afghan authorities of the repatriation of families with children, to the understanding of what is ‘child-careable’?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1697	I think we'd better look at what we're doing now. We follow the advice of the UNHCR, we follow the advice of the UDI, and we pay particular attention to child-care considerations – that is what we do, and that is also the answer to how we look at UNHCR recommendations on these issues. Return is possible, but it must be under certain conditions. We have clarified them, we follow them, and therefore we also follow all the necessary recommendations that are needed to send families of children back to Afghanistan. I stress once again, as I did in my post, that no one has been sent back in violation of these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1704	I'm a little in doubt about how the representative Kapur can be so sure of that. That is why I have to ask the representative whether he has really gone through these matters and looked at the actual content of them, and whether he has seen whether they actually meet in practice the requirements set by the United Nations. It is a reality that several of the people who have been picked up for transportation have been stopped when they have received help from, among others. NOAS, because these requirements have not been met. It is also true that families have been returned from the Kabul airport just because, as a United Nations assumption, safety has not been in place. It's not about a name, or you've lived somewhere at some point, but you actually have protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1709	I think we're all good at dealing with the facts in the debate – and at least refer to what I said – when you have a question or a line. I underlined both in the post and in my reply that the UDI indicates that no children's families were returned to Afghanistan in violation of UNHCR recommendations. We have to be able to trust that until the opposite information is documented. Based on our information, no families have been sent out in violation of UNHCR's recommendations, and there is nothing we add up in this conversation. On the contrary, we suggest that more attention should be paid to child-care than has been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1714	Who, if any, will be re-examined now and whether it is dangerous to return to a country are two very different questions. There is no link with the risk of being sent to a country, whether you have been in a long or short time in another country. Staying in Norway for four years, five years or two months is not essential for ensuring the safety situation in Afghanistan. If it is possible to demonstrate cases such as those involving the treatment of The legal aid organisation NOAS shows that the assumptions on which the representative now considers to have been based are not there, is it that the representative and the Right are willing to review this practice? I am not at least in doubt that not all of these matters have met the safety requirements that the United Nations has put forward. That is why the proposal is being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1721	It's UDI's recommendations that have led to what I'm now saying. If things were to come up again, it's UDI that evaluates them. I, as a proxy, do not consider individual cases, but I trust that when UDI can show that no children's families are returned to Afghanistan in violation of UNHCR recommendations, it is right. If there are other issues, they must be taken when they arrive. But I can't process the case in a line change with the representative Karin Andersen. It would be unreasonable to demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1726	I understand that, but at the same time, the representative says you have to deal with the facts, and then you actually have to investigate the facts. Other countries that have done this have chosen not to return to Afghanistan. It also did the previous government, precisely because it's so hard to be sure. It is another matter that has been a pretty bad and heavy responsibility for both the previous one and this government, and it is the case of mulla Krekar. Norwegian authorities are very thorough in their efforts to know that this human being is not being persecuted by return. That's why he gets to stay, without any of us being particularly happy about it. Is it not reasonable for us to investigate just as carefully when we send children to a very dangerous country, such as Afghanistan, where our own authorities say they are unable to provide protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1735	UNHCR and UDI – now I've shown what they're saying – have made clear assumptions. It should be possible to return if there is the possibility of an internal network where you arrive – that there are enough opportunities and resources to manage yourself. It is not a matter of sending you back, regardless of the situation. It shall also be carefully assessed in the light of the agreement we now have between the four batches. Finally, if this was the last line of the representative, Karin Andersen, I would like to reiterate that this government is following the recommendations of the UNHCR and the UDI and is going to take child-care into account. There's our government policy in this area, and I'm not in doubt that we're going to follow up on this in a serious and good way, even though Andersen's representative is trying to create another impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1742	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1745	Here we have a representative proposal from SV that we in the Christian People's Party appreciate. I think it is important that we put the searchlight on the different parts of our policy to ensure that it is good quality, that it becomes a fair process, and that it becomes predictable for the groups concerned. In this case, a word is brought in, ‘internal flight’, and it must be a tough situation to think that you are being sent on an internal flight in your own country. With regard to the principle of internal migration, it makes great demands on the proceedings of our authorities. We need to be well aware of the family and the people involved, so that we know how integrated they are, know whether they are integrated, and know what conditions they have in their home country. They're talking about having resources and networks. It requires a thorough and thorough knowledge of the individual. In addition, we need to have good information about that country and the region to which they are sent, so that we know that we can do so – with respect for reporting. Afghanistan is a special country. They have had decades of war – with great powers, with warlords, etc. – so it is a very demanding country to live in and send people back to. In many ways, developments in Afghanistan have been positive in recent years, but many Afghans live under very difficult conditions, and the number of internally displaced persons in their own country has unfortunately increased. These are vulnerable people, often characterised by poor living conditions, and living in such a refugee situation in their own country is particularly demanding. There is a lack of work, a lack of sufficient water and food and perhaps poor housing conditions. In this situation, we believe it is important to have positive, clear conditions for what is needed to be sent to such a country. Therefore, in June 2014, the UDI recommended changing the practice of internal refugees. It was done on the basis of a communication from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The UDI indicated that the humanitarian situation of internal refugees in Afghanistan had deteriorated and that women and children are reported to be particularly vulnerable. Therefore, the UDI recommendations of June 2014 were followed up by the government in January. Once again, it is important for us in the Christian People's Party to remember the best of children and to consider all the criteria that will underpin the conditions that must be in place to be able to return. But it is true that neither the UDI nor the UN Commissioner for Refugees have called for a general return for families with children to Afghanistan. On that very background, we, as a nation that sends them out again, must be able to be noisy and have a number of conditions that must be met before we send people back. These are networks, resources and capacity for self-sufficiency. On several occasions, there has been a topic for questions in Stortinget, and in the Question Time on 14 January I asked the Prime Minister about this, about the practice of returning to Afghanistan for families referred to internship. The Prime Minister’s answer was then that UNE has informed that no one has returned in violation of UDI’s practical presentation after it arrived on 1 July 2014. I also received a written answer, and the question was also repeated afterwards with almost the same answer. So according to UDI's recommendations, this has been followed up by instructions. However, the situation in Afghanistan needs to be closely followed, and we therefore need to have up-to-date information to see if we need to make practical changes. Again, it is important to ensure that children are given special consideration and that the situation is investigated. The Christian People's Party believes that there are good reasons why families with children should not be forced into exile.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1764	In this area, there is no improvement with a new government. In this area, there is a deterioration with new government, for this is a practice that the red-green government didn't have. Can the representative provide a reason why it is safer to return children’s families to domestic exile in Afghanistan now than it was two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1769	I can't, but I have to deal with what the authorities are saying and with the UN refugee commissioner, who doesn't advise against return. But I support the demands on conditions that I mentioned that they must have a network, it must be self-sufficiency, and there must be sufficient resources to enable them to live in a respectful way in this country. I am confident that the authorities will investigate before they are sent out. As I have said, children are particularly important and that child-care is taken into account in these matters, so I assume that it is done. As the case has shown – thanks to the SV’s proposal – it does not appear that such broadcasts have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1774	Then I must also ask the representative if he is willing to go through some of the matters relating to the families that have been sent out. Does he believe that safety is ensured if, for example: is it about having a distant relative with whom you have been contacted by telephone, and who has shown himself willing to set up at the airport and meet you when you arrive, but nothing more? In fact, most of these families are now on the run again out of Afghanistan — there was no security there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1779	I assume that if the representative or others have information that is so important that they can influence the situation, they must inform the authorities about this. According to the reports we get from the authorities, this is within what can be done in this area. But as I said at the end of my post: Christian People's Party does not recommend the return of children's families to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1787	We have just concluded the debate on the conditions for the return of long-term children where the family has not been granted residence in Norway. The issue we are discussing now has similarities with the previous case, and some of the proposed measures will also apply to the return of families with children to Afghanistan. It seems obvious that the government, in its eagerness to meet its targets for the return of asylum-seekers who have not been granted residence in Norway, has followed a practice where the transport figures have become more important than those sent out. Children’s families have lost their lives because they are easier to access, and the effort to carry out transport is less than for example. asylum seekers who have committed offences in Norway and who are the ones who should be given priority in the case of posting. The government's practice has received a high price. After we got a return agreement with Afghanistan, this has now been disputed by the Afghan authorities because we have sent families back to internally displaced Afghanistan. We have come into a situation where return to Afghanistan can stop completely, even when there are returns that are sound in accordance with the UNHCR and UDI guidelines. I'm sorry. The representative proposal by Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes brings forward the proposal that is important for the Stortinget. It is in everyone's interest that asylum policy should be implemented in a way that ensures legal certainty and security. Families with children are particularly vulnerable, and the understanding of how to care for children’s best needs to be central to all of us. The Centre Party has made proposals in the previous case, which are also relevant in this case. In the light of the practice which has been followed and which is contrary to the assumptions put forward by the Stortinget, we proposed that long-term children of asylum who have been sent out between 1 July and to the present date be re-tested. This proposal is now being followed up, as it is closely related to the new agreement between the government and the cooperation parties. The Central Party has not been able to support SV’s proposal to return Afghan children’s families who have been forced to Afghanistan in the period after 1 January 2014 nor to establish a mechanism to ensure their stay in Norway. We believe that the right thing to do is to ensure that these families of children get their case tried again after the new regulations, which have finally come into place. If they have been sent out in violation of these, they will be able to return to Norway. It provides these families with the same rights and opportunities as families with children from other unstable countries with a safety situation that may be in line with the situation in Afghanistan. The centre party is in agreement with SV in proposals where we ask the government immediately to ensure that practices for Afghan children's families referred to internally are in line with and follow the recommendations of UNHCR and UDI. I understand that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left argue that neither UDI nor UNHCR's recommendations require a general return for families with children to Afghanistan. They therefore consider that the proposal is not relevant. It is true that neither UDI nor UNHCR reject any return. However, they assume that no families with children are returned without it being established that they have a network in a safe place that can provide adequate support by return. In order to ensure that these conditions are met by the Norwegian authorities, it is unfortunately necessary to underline this in the form of proposals. A Norwegian practice has been identified during the last year which raises doubts about the follow-up of the UDI's proposal for a change of practice. I refer to the case of the Control Committee which has revealed a failure and a lack of consistency between information provided to the Stortinget and practice. The majority discussed the situation of the Norwegian combat interpreters in Afghanistan in February. Then the Stortinget came together to demand a new policy and action from the government to ensure that the combat interpreters were secured a stay and work permit in Norway. As one of the proposers of the draft representative on the basis of which the decision was taken, I am pleased with the way in which we resolved that matter. However, I am not as happy with all the months that have passed without effective follow-up to Storting's order in that case. It is difficult to understand that we have managed to put ourselves in a situation where Afghan authorities are threatening to stop the repatriation of refugees because we have carried out the deportation... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1810	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1813	The left shares the SV's involvement in this area. It is also important to take child-care considerations, as the representative Geir S. Tskedal was in. It's dramatic when families are sent out of the country, and they really want to start a new life in Norway. This is why the main issue of the Left in asylum policy – through our cooperation with the government – has been precisely to ensure the conditions of asylum children, especially those who have been here for a long time and who have developed links through kindergarten, school, leisure activities and the community. As many have said, the situation in Afghanistan is demanding. After many decades of war, the situation in the country is demanding. It is true that the situation that matters as to how and when to return families with children. But it's not going to come from the fact that it gets a little special when the red-greens in many ways shift the responsibility to the sitting government, when it was actually the Stoltenberg government that – a few days before it left – opened up to return families with children to Afghanistan. I think you also have to include it in the history description of this. It was opened for it then, and that opening is there yet. I understand SV's impatience, but it is not going to come from the fact that SV was also part of the government that just opened up the possibility of sending children's families back to Afghanistan, and that prioritised sending them out, among other things. the remaining ones. It is true, as several have pointed out, that no one – known to me – has been sent back in violation of UDI’s recommendation after it arrived at the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 1 July 2014. The UDI also indicates that no children’s families were returned to Afghanistan in violation of UNHCR recommendations from 1 January 2014 to 1 July 2014. I would also like to say, as many have done, that the legitimacy of the institution of asylum is important. Return agreements are also part of that legitimacy. An important part of this, which we have put in place, is the change in regulations for the long-term asylum-seekers. It is important that this is predictable. As others have pointed out, internal refugees also make great demands on our proceedings, and it also requires that we have good information about the country. As demanding as this terrain in Afghanistan is, of course, it's more demanding than many other places. And when there's not least such a big gap in what we can call infrastructure, it also makes a lot of demands. It is clear that this is demanding, and I would like to commend the fact that SV has put this on the agenda, because I think it is important. We, from the left, have now been involved and helped to put in place schemes that I believe are better. I hear that the representative Karin Andersen believes that this is the status quo or to the worse, but I would like to remind the representative Andersen that it was actually the government that opened this a few weeks before it left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1832	SV believes that the families of children who have been sent to Afghanistan by coercion after the new government took over – as I said, it was not done before – should be picked up and allowed to stay. That's the content of one of our proposals in this case. It is because the return to Afghanistan of these families of children is too risky, and it is politically unnecessary to do so. I also think it can be very counterproductive, as you risk putting the entire return agreement on stakes, so you don't get any returns there. Maybe that should worry the government parties and the cooperation parties a little bit more. There was no possibility of returning children’s families to Afghanistan. It was a political will from the government to increase returns in such a way that it was willing to also implement legislation that was there but was not used before – for political and security reasons and for children’s sake. There has been a discussion about whether Norway complies with the UNHCR guidelines. I have read how this is interpreted from English to Norwegian and I believe that the Norwegian interpretation is not at all as strict as the UNHCR text, because there they say it is only advisable if the family has a network that is willing and able to provide meaningful support. The Norwegian legislation states ‘sufficient networks and/or sufficient resources to establish itself in the internal escape area. [[...]] In addition, it is possible to search for information that can now tell us that many of the Afghan children's families who have been deported are now fleeing again. As far as I know, there are two families in India. Five families of children are fleeing Iran. More are in Pakistan and Indonesia, for example. a couple with two small girls who were Christian converts. They were Christians before they came to Norway. They were deported and immediately fled to India, where they now seek protection under the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. This has been notified of. Also, a family of four children who were deported immediately fled again because of the father's safety problems and has now applied for protection in Indonesia. This information exists. There are organisations in Norway working on this. It turns out that the ones we sent off the farm are not safe. People don't actually run and run around like this for fun. They do it because it's impossible for them to protect their children and themselves in this situation. And this was something new, as this government started, and therefore I am disappointed that neither the Workers' Party nor the Center's party supports SV's proposal in this matter, precisely because this was a risk we were not willing to take, and that there is no reason why Norway should now take. This does not apply to so many, and there are extremely vulnerable children that Norway could take care of and provide security. Instead, we send them back to a country most of them have never been in, and are among the most dangerous places in the world, and the authorities there say they can't accept them. In the light of enquiries by the Afghan Government, for example, the Commission has stopped UK Supreme Court on 25 April an entire flight of refugees returning to Afghanistan, precisely because they took Afghanistan's warnings seriously. I have wondered very much why Norway does not. I think Norwegian authorities know very well how dangerous it is in Afghanistan, and it has become much more dangerous. So for this particular group, it should have been a unanimous big thing that had today voted in favour of SV's proposal, which I would like to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1849	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1852	The last question from the representative Karin Andersen should be able to answer herself, because in the spring of 2013, the Afghan authorities asked Norway to stop all return to Afghanistan and renegotiate the return agreement. Then SV joined the government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and no attempt was made to make any changes then. And after that, there was one change, after what I found, and it was a temporary change, from June to August, where it was only sent in return to lonely men. In August 2013 – before the change of government, and with Swedish government, they opened, in line with the representative of Skkelstad, for return of families with children. It is true that in practice the return of families with children was not carried out during that period, because it was not practicable. But – and what I want to repeat, even if someone thinks it is wrong – it then opened up an opportunity in the dialogue with Afghan authorities for the return of families with children, with the underlying assumptions. So I have to say I'm surprised. It's not allowed to say that someone is falsifying history from the pulpit of Storting, so I want to say that I'm "surprised" over this history description that three parties stand up here and express, because at least it doesn't agree with the impression I have. And these are documents that Stortinget has been sent, there's evidence available, so I think it's strange that you can pretend here for the first time now, in recent months, it's been up to the Afghan authorities to renegotiate this return agreement. This was a central issue also under the previous government. Then I would like to point out that the starting point for Norwegian asylum law is that all persons who are entitled to protection under our international obligations are given it. However, the right of recognition as a refugee does not apply if the applicant can obtain effective protection in parts of the country of origin other than where the applicant fled, i.e. are referred to internal flight and it is not unreasonable to return there. The assessment of referencing people to international refugees raises very complicated questions, and it is particularly challenging, which many people have encountered, when there are children involved. The practice of the foreign administration has been widely discussed in the media, partly incorrect — at least unprecise — law of order, and there is a need to clarify some points. The Ministry of Justice and Defence agreed to the Foreign Affairs Directorate’s proposal for a practical presentation on the referral of families with children to refugee in Afghanistan by instructions of 30 January 2015. The instruction sounds: ‘As a starting point, it would be reasonable to refer families of children to intra-EU refugees in Afghanistan only if the family has sufficient networks and/or resources to establish itself in the area of internal migration and to meet the basic needs of the family.’;» In other words, it does not apply to return to Afghanistan in general or to children of a long duration in particular. It includes return to internal flight if the family of children does not have sufficient networks and/or resources. Both the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the UNHCR recommend that families with children are not returned to Afghanistan’s internal migration unless they have sufficient networks to establish themselves in the area of internal migration and meet the family’s basic needs. The Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs’ practical service goes a little further than this and allows families of children to be returned to internal migration if they have sufficient resources to establish themselves in the area of internal migration and to meet the basic needs of the family, even if the family does not have a network in the area of internal migration. I would like to stress that Norwegian practice is in line with the Foreign Affairs Directorate’s proposal for practice management and our international commitments, although it does not follow the UNHCR recommendations on all points. It is important to clarify that all the families with children who have returned to refugees in Afghanistan have been thoroughly evaluated by the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department, and they have been refused, and I need to have confidence in the job that the foreign agencies are doing. Persons not in need of protection are obliged to leave the country. Then I noticed that SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party believe that our return policy undermines return agreements. I believe, as I said in the introduction, that this is not right, but there is also a dialogue with the Afghan authorities on these issues, including these days. When it comes to retrieving people, I just want to repeat what several people have said here, that the Foreign Affairs Department has informed – and I have to say that it is probably right – that by April 23, 2015, no forced return of families with children has been carried out that could be considered contrary to the Foreign Affairs Directorate's proposal for a change of practice after their proposal came on July 1, 2014. Finally, I would like to mention that the government and the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and the Left on 8 April this year agreed on an additional agreement in the field of asylum and immigration. Children’s families who were transported out during the period defined therein will then have the opportunity to have their cases dealt with through the desire to convert.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1885	Let me start by correcting an opinion. I did not say that the Workers' Party believes that there is a practice that undermines return agreements, I would warn against a practice that may undermine return agreements – and I assume that the Council of State agrees. The asylum institution intends to protect people from persecution or other inhuman treatment in its home country. Now I have heard that the representative Karin Andersen has repeatedly warned against the situation in Afghanistan today, and we have based our position that it is stated that no one has been sent back against the advice that has been given. Let me ask the following questions just for doing so – there are difficult balances in these matters: Have Norway sent back any in violation of the Foreign Affairs Act, the Refugee Convention, return agreements or other laws, conventions or agreements by which we are bound?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1892	There is, of course, an extremely broad question, and it is impossible to answer yes or no to it, because some of these cases will also have legal proceedings, where the foreign authorities may have taken decisions other than those of the courts. But it is quite obvious that the foreign authorities have an obligation to deal with all these matters within the legislation that is in force, and I trust that they will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1897	I understand the Council of State's observation that this can be unreasonable. Let me limit the question, first, to the time of the Council of State in government and then formulate it in a different way. Is the Council of State certain that the returns made during that period are not contrary to the laws, regulations, etc., which were raised in my previous question?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1902	The answer to the question is exactly the same as on the first question, although it is now somewhat more limited and reworded. The question really is whether I trust that the foreign authorities will be able to take decisions in accordance with the legislation they will take in accordance with. I have no reason to mean anything but that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1907	The Minister of Justice’s letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee of 18 February makes a significant point that UDI and UNHCR have different understanding of what their warning against referral to internal migration represents. Both agree that families with children need an adequate network to establish themselves. In addition, the UDI states that they can return if they have sufficient resources to establish themselves. The councils were also involved in the article. Can the Council of State clarify why this is an important point and say something about how he assesses this in relation to the Afghan authorities’ request to stop the forced return of families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1912	As I was in my post, since the spring of 2013, the Afghan authorities have asked Norway to stop all forced returns to Afghanistan. It chose the previous government not to do, and it has this government left behind following up. At the same time, we are aware that we should not pursue a policy that puts return agreements to the test. That is why we have a good dialogue with the Afghan authorities about this. As regards the difference between the recommendation of UDI and UNHCR, there are simply different recommendations. UNHCR has made its recommendation. UDI has presented its practical presentation to the ministry. And we've been dealing with UDI's practice presentation, which is different from what UNHCR's recommendation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1919	It is probably right to say that there is one reason why the government is using the option contained in an agreement, and that is that you have had a general desire to increase the returns, anyway. That is why this case has been brought to the fore, with the result that many families with children have been sent back to a situation that has been so impossible that they have had to make a new flight. The Minister of Justice must have also, to put it that way, been thinking about why families with children were not returned to Afghanistan before he was given responsibility for this area. Can he now say what is in the situation in Afghanistan that suggests that it is safer now than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1926	This question has a strange undertone, because that's not the question. We have put ourselves within the same framework within which Karin Andersen's government allowed itself, where there were no restrictions on who would be returned to Afghanistan. It has also been the case with this government, and when, in the dialogue with Afghan authorities, it became possible to return families with children, it was an opportunity for the foreign authorities to use it. It is therefore not a political governance linked to this – it is not, in addition to what is stated in the letter of allocation – when the letters of allocation from the previous government also prioritised the return of families with children, none of them in particular to Afghanistan, but the return of families with children in general. The previous government wanted to give special priority to the long-term. So I'm a little unsure whether it really is so relevant what kind of thoughts I should be making about why the previous government couldn't return people to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1933	That was not the question either. The question was: what is the situation in Afghanistan now that the Council of State believes it is safer to return children's families to Afghanistan now than it was before, when the warnings increase, and all those who know about it, and report them back, says that the security situation in Afghanistan is particularly worsening, especially for those who do not have what the UNHCR demands and think must be in place, namely a network that is willing to and capable of providing meaningful support to returned families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1938	Neither Karin Andersen nor I are case handlers in the foreign administration. I simply have to assume that the non-resident administration makes the assessments to be made to identify whether there is a need for protection or not. Neither Andersen nor I can try that out. And these are always difficult situations. All of these things, especially those where children are involved, are incredibly demanding because of course there is something they don't want. Of course, they want to have the dream of being in Norway, but the premise is that there is a need for protection, and when there is no need for protection, neither the representative Andersen nor I can accept the case handler hat and say that the foreign administration is assessing this error. I have to be confident that the foreign administration will assess this in a proper, thorough and good way, and then it will always be burdensome to return people, especially when children are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1944	In a previous answer here, the minister admitted that he could not be sure that any of these were returned contrary to the assumptions. I understand that the Minister has to answer that he trusts the foreign administration, but is it possible for the Council of State at least to respond to why the guidelines of the UDI for internal migration in Afghanistan are not entirely specific and entirely in line with the guidelines of the UNHCR? There is no doubt that the UNHCR guidelines on the return of families with children to internal refugees are more stringent, precisely because they assume that there must be a network there that is willing to and capable of providing meaningful support. And you can't say that has been in place when families have to flee, like the first thing they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1949	The representative of Karin Andersen is quite right in saying that there are different approaches by the UNHCR in relation to the UDI’s recommended guidelines. UDI is the professional authority of the Norwegian authorities in this field; it is the UDI that has to make a professional assessment of these issues. It is this professional assessment that we, among other things, bases our decision on instruction to the UDI. Why the UDI has recommended something other than what the UNHCR has done, it is actually the professional authority that has to respond to. We have based the recommendation that the professional authority has made. It is somewhat different from the UNHCR recommendation, but we are dealing with the national professional authority in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1956	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e1964	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2086	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2094	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 3-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that long-term asylum children who have been sent out in the period from 1 January 2014 until the current date are re-tested in accordance with new legislation. 'Proposal No 4 reads: ‘The government asks that the long-term asylum children, including those sent out since January 2014, receive good information on the new legislation.’ 5 reads: ‘The government is asked to give the foreign authorities the opportunity, on their own initiative, to reverse decisions for long-term children of asylum. 'Proposal No 6 reads: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department to consider matters under a new regulation when they are informed by the Police Foreign Unit that a long-term family of children will be forced to return.’ 7 reads: ‘The government asks that long-term children of asylum, including those who have been sent out since 1 January 2014, receive free legal aid to try their case in accordance with new legislation.’ 8 reads: ‘The government is asked to introduce a new provision in the foreign regulation, which ensures the following: 1. The police shall notify the Foreign Office if a decision to reject an application for asylum has not been taken one year after the last assessment of the matter by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs or the Department of Foreign Affairs. 2nd@item: inlistbox In such cases, the foreign student shall reassess on his own initiative whether there is a basis for protection under Section 73 of the Foreign Affairs Act. In matters involving children, consideration shall be given to whether there are grounds for granting authorisation under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, cf. Article 8-5 of the Foreign Regulation.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2150	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that long-term children of asylum who have been posted after 1 July 2014 and until today are re-tested in accordance with new legislation.’ 2 reads: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a provision in the foreign regulation that an up-to-date assessment of the conditions for dispatch is to be made when the implementation takes place for a long time after the decision has been taken.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2189	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate return of Afghan children’s families to Norway, which has been forced into Afghanistan for the period after 1 January 2014, and requests the establishment of a system to ensure their stay in Norway for the sake of children.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2214	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to ensure that the practices of forced repatriation are in line with and follow the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2231	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to ensure that the practices of Afghan families with children referred to internally are in line with and follow the recommendations of the UNHCR and the Foreign Affairs Directorate.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-30.ana.ud2311e2304	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
