ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e65	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party's Group on the Permit of the Representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal from 25 May to 29 May to attend the Youth Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Japan of the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative of Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen from 27 and 28 May to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: for the Province of East-Agder: Lene Langemyr 27-28. May For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 26-28. May
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e101	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e104	I am delighted to make suggestions on behalf of Pål Farstad, Ketil Kjeseth and myself on the hydropower concession in Lower Otta.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e109	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e112	On behalf of the major representatives of Heidi Greni, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I would like to propose measures to reduce predatory problems for Sami reindeer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e117	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e120	I have the pleasure of submitting proposals on behalf of the deposit representatives Kjersti Toppe and myself on measures against over-use and misuse of prescription-free medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e125	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e139	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after the intervention of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e146	I would like to begin by saying that the Stortinget is on the right track in strengthening the professional position in school. That is good, because we know that there is an increasing need in the future for people with a professional background. We know that we are going to need many more good trade union workers in the future: carpenters, health professionals and skilled people in service and trade in goods. And we know that we need to stimulate more young people to choose a vocational education. That is why we must also ensure that education is attractive and feasible for those who choose vocational education. The proposal we are now debating is no less than 33 individual proposals from the Workers' Party aimed at strengthening the position of professionals in education. As the rapporteur, I would like to commend the Labour Party for promoting a number of good proposals, and I would like to thank the entire Committee for good cooperation in dealing with this matter. An overall committee agrees with the proposers that there is a need to raise professional qualifications. When I then started to say that the Storting is on the right track, I also show that the previous staging dealt with a message that was just called it, On the right track – Quality and diversity in the primary school. There we all joined in several of the measures mentioned in this draft representative. In addition, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agreed on a number of proposals and comments to further strengthen the professions which were not given a majority at the time. In both 2010 and 2012, the right promoted concrete proposals for lifting the professions, and at both times the proposals were voted down by the red-green ones in the Stortinget. In fact, the right went to the choice to make an effort for the professions, and now the government realizes a promise. It involves both the follow-up to adopted measures in relation to the notification of gross domestic product and the government’s own professional traineeship, consisting of a wide range of measures included in the Sundvolden Declaration. Since the change of government, the professions have been given a lift. It's about several things. First of all, it is a question of ensuring that pupils in school have a good basis for completing basic training, and the government is putting a heavy strain on this, among other things. by strengthening the competence of teachers. The government has its own commitment to youth, which will contribute to increasing students’ motivation and mastering through practical and varied teaching. The Government has also decided to introduce letters of practice in addition to vocational secondary education. This means that students with weak secondary school outcomes are given an opportunity to receive a two-year practical training without losing their right to further education. The government's professionalism also means strengthening the competence of teachers. In the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Left and Christian People's Party for the current year, 50 million were granted. for measures of competence for staff in teaching positions lacking formal teacher training. One of the challenges facing professionals is the lack of apprenticeships. Therefore, the government has proposed increased apprenticeship grants. In the budget comparisons, we have increased the apprenticeship grant twice in two years. The last time the apprenticeship grant was increased was in 2009. With the increase in the 2015 budgetary agreement of NOK 4 000 per contract, the apprenticeship grant has been increased by DKK 7 500 in total since the Right and the Advance Party took over after the red-green ones. The government has also prioritised funding for vocational networks between schools and local work to help the communities become more professional and relevant. Still, many young people are struggling to gain a place in learning, and this leads to high school drop-outs. At the end of 2014, it was approx. 8 000 young people who didn't get what they wanted. The provision of multiple learning places is essential in order to ensure the necessary skills in the workplace and not least to ensure the possibility for young people to complete their education. In addition to increased apprenticeship grants and company grants, the government has also said that the State should assume greater responsibility for the inclusion of more apprentices. The government has strengthened the requirement that enterprises entrusted with public tasks should have apprentices. This means that the apprentice clause shall be used by the contracting entity when public tenders are published and that there shall be apprentices related to the project. The public, and especially the state, have been a retard in taking in apprentices, and therefore the government has warned a strategy to do something about this. We will not vote in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party for the simple reason that most of the proposals have already been adopted here in the Stortinget or are under follow-up to the government's own professional profession. It is very positive that the Storting is now on the right track in lifting the professions. Both the position and the opposition have put it on the agenda. There have been many years when these subjects have not had enough attention, and it is fortunate to end it now. Now we're all going to help raise the professions up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e167	We need to make sure that society has the skills and knowledge we need when we're building the country in the decades to come. It is a pleasure for professionals to have received increased attention in recent years. When the Storing Message On the right track was presented in the previous ageing period, it was an important milestone. It gave us a much better knowledge base on the profession, the clear objectives set, and it launched several measures to raise the professions. In fact, the notification has been so important that today’s knowledge minister has chosen to base most of his professional policy on it. That's good. When the Workers' Party, together with SV, now promotes 33 new proposals for the Stortinget, it is because we want to continue to develop the policy. Our policy for a good vocational education does not start in high school. It starts with the youngest – with 5- to 6-year-olds in high school. If we are to prevent high school drop-outs, students must learn through practice from an early age. Advisors at secondary school should be given a better opportunity to visit the workplace, and when they first start secondary education, they must feel that the content of education is close to the reality of working life. We will bring the labour market closer to the school and to the school. We believe that more people should be able to try out at the company from the first year of high school and have practice throughout the school cycle. We therefore propose, inter alia: to provide schools with better opportunities to organise exchange models by enabling them to free up the professional and hourly distribution throughout the school cycle. An up-to-date school is not possible without up-to-date equipment. We want a stepping-up plan for equipment in professional studies. A key to success is the creation of multiple learning places. Then we have to think about something new. Ending up without an opportunity to learn is as if a student at study specialist did not get to go the last year on the line saying. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. A proposal is to increase the apprenticeship grant, but much more both can and must be done. In order to stimulate early school practice, the Workers' Party will grant grants to enterprises providing shorter periods of practice. We're also going to try out a syllabus scheme for apprenticeships, an industry fund where the state and all the companies in an industry, whether they have apprentices or not, are going to contribute. It gives all enterprises in one industry responsibility for ensuring high levels of competence, and it will stimulate more places of learning. We have to stop training young people in sectors where there are no apprenticeships. Dimensionalisation must be based more on the needs of the labour market. The countries and the labour market need to cooperate much more closely, and one of the proposals is to give vocational training students a new and stronger role. Towards the end, I would like to say that the professions cannot be raised solely through better training. Young people need to be sure that when choosing a vocational training programme, they face a decent and serious working life at the other end – not a labour market marked by high levels of hiring, part-time jobs, black work and poor tour schedules. That is why the whole of the policy is important. In other words, if the students are sent out to Robert Eriksson's working life, it does not help the Minister of Knowledge to make the world's best vocational training. Strong measures are needed to raise the professional profile. During the examination of this proposal, the parties to the Government have made it clear that they will not vote in favour of any of the proposed measures. I really perceive that the signals from the government parties are that they are very pleased with the job they are doing. It is a satisfaction the Labour Party is unable to share. The honourable Member said from the Chair that most of these proposals have already been taken care of by the work of the government. The correct thing is that the government has followed up only a few of these measures after they were promoted. Of the measures that the government has promoted, which we support and which are positive, most follow-up to the notification is on the right track, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out. It was an important message. We are pleased with all the measures that will be put in place, but there has been a great deal of pressure to open doors and resell measures from the 2013 Storing Message. To all intents and purposes – it is good to continue action from this big message. We come from the autumn of 2017 to continue the good measures this government is putting forward, but until then we hope for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e188	The President assumes that Martin Henriksen should address the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e191	It was in script, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e196	Then the President chooses to interpret the representative there until he has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e199	It is an important matter for the Labour Party to address in its proposal. A profession's profession is seriously damaged after having been treated with a vote for a number of years. NHO's 2015 competence survey shows that member companies have a great need for both skilled workers and vocational school-trained staff. The Progress Party has been working for many years to strengthen the professions. We needed very much on the red-green when they put in power that there were many measures that should be taken. A concrete example is the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in document 8:53 for 2008-2009. There we presented 18 different proposals to improve higher education. Today's proposal contains a good part of the proposals put forward by the Progress Party. The response from the Workers' Party was that they were satisfied with their own government efforts in the field. In an oral Questionnaire in 2011, all government councils in the Red-Green Government were challenged by the Progress Party to include more apprentices in state enterprises. The challenge was not addressed by the red-green, but with the Progress Party in government, there is now a clear requirement for state enterprises to include apprentices. The Progress Party is very pleased that the Workers' Party finally sees the need for a professional lift and that the Workers' Party proposes a number of measures that the Progress Party has previously proposed on the Stortinget. We now see an overall commitment to the school. Facilitation of the theory of the profession, more authority and competence of the teacher, calm and order in the classroom, increased emphasis on competence in the basic subjects, teacher's lift, among others. more requirements for depression, stricter intake requirements and drastically improved opportunities for continuing training are among the issues currently being implemented in practice by the Right-wing Party Government. If more than one student is to complete a vocational training course, more than one student must also start professionally with the skills needed to succeed in the course of training. Here I would like to underline the importance of early school work, professionally strong teachers, real-time vocational training and professionalism. The government is now implementing a number of measures called for by the Progress Party for many years. In particular, the Progress Party will underline the importance of measures in the budgetary comparisons in the Grand Duchy between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to increase the apprentice's grant. It has been increased by a total of 7500 kroner since the Right-Fremskritsparte government took over for the red-green government. This will contribute to the inclusion of apprentices by far more enterprises and businesses. Prosperity and value creation depend on the training of many in care, construction and construction, industrial production and service activities in the future. Norwegian skilled workers shall compete on quality and continue and develop a good Norwegian trade union tradition. The government and the cooperation parties prioritise a great deal of action to provide more pupils with learning places, to increase school-labour cooperation, to expand the business-hospital system for professionals, and to develop more flexible running and to strengthen the quality and relevance of training. The sum of this will provide students with training in line with the demands of the labour market and provide the professions with the training they deserve. In the work on strengthening the professions in the future, there are many fields affected. Getting the financial responsibility for the vocational schools back to the state and having the new law of higher education, which opens up more profiling schools and professional schools, are important factors in getting this done. Increased school-business cooperation is important and will provide effective resource and competence utilization. The Progress Party and government action in this area provide a better school, strengthen value creation and thus also the future of the welfare society. The Progress Party will continue to press for a policy that exploits its potential for good teachers and students. Good resources need to be used, and businesses need to enter school early in order to contribute to education and prepare students for what can await them in their professional life. The Workers' Party's proposal seems to contain many good measures, and we therefore look forward to good cooperation on offensive action in the professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e218	There is a broad political consensus that there is a need to strengthen the professions. We are going to need an increased need for skilled workers by 2030, and today there are too few students who choose a professional course of study. In addition, we also have other challenges with the professions. Too many people don't complete, and too many people have problems getting a place to teach. I would also like to highlight the vocational education sector and the need to strengthen the vocational schools. I think the NOU that was presented before Christmas makes an interesting diagnosis in the technical school sector: the patient is “upstairs, but still not quite healthy”. The vocational education sector has an undissolved potential, and both vocational and secondary education needs a promise. There is a lot that can be done and has to be done. The four majority parties on the Stortinget have for several years had a common desire to strengthen the professions, and now we are doing well to do just that. We have prioritised and will give priority to measures to provide more pupils with learning places, measures to increase cooperation between school and work life, measures to develop more flexible courses and measures to enhance the quality and relevance of training. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have negotiated two budgetary settlements together during this period. Twice the apprenticeship grant has been increased by a total of NOK 7500. I think it'll help more companies and businesses take in apprentices, but I don't think this in itself is enough. In this field, there's also a job to be done locally, and we see that there's a lot of variation from state to state to what extent you succeed in obtaining learning places. I think there is a need for more sharing of ‘best practice’ between schools and counties. I think there are many people who have a lot to learn from it, for example. do in Rogaland. Providing adequate apprenticeships is of itself important, but it will also have an impact on the status and reputation of professionals. If choosing a profession is perceived as a safe choice with good prospects for apprenticeship and work, more people will want to choose it. If it is experienced as a career risk sport, fewer people will dare to choose a professional course. Some of the pupils who drop out of vocational training have first and foremost challenges with the theoretical common subjects. For more people to succeed in implementation, it is important that they have basic basic skills in place at the start of their secondary education. Many of those who are struggling with theories have worn out for many years before they begin high school. The problems do not arise in the first class of upper secondary education nor do the problems arise in the 10th class. They occur long before that, and many have passed through large parts of primary school without getting the help and follow-up they need. As a result, early school interventions are also important to ensure that more people complete secondary education. I would like to highlight the efforts made by the Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations, which are worth 480 million. kr per year in earmarked funds for several teaching positions in 1–4. the stage of primary school. With more teachers, there will be more time for each student, and then it will be easier to give each student the help they need. At the same time, it is important to make vocational education more practical and in line with the needs of the labour market for skills and skills. It is therefore necessary to motivate more skilled workers to take vocational training courses. I believe that provision should also be made for continuing vocational teachers to receive continuing training in the common subjects, so that they can also teach in these subjects. In previous debates on the subject of vocational training, I have mentioned the Re Secondary School in Vestfold. They are located in the urban area of Norway with regard to the degree of implementation in the professional field. What they themselves promote as an important success factor is that the teacher who teaches snow or welding is the same teacher who teaches Norwegian, English or math. This is about these teachers being able to create a good relationship with the students they teach. The strengthening and hosting arrangements for vocational teachers and increased appropriations for the Lektor 2 scheme are also important. If we're going to raise the students in the professional field, we're going to have to start by lifting the teachers. I think it's great that the Workers' Party now wants to be a driver to strengthen the professions, and I think it's nice to note that many of the proposals that are now on the table have already been taken care of through previous decisions in the Storting and through the professional profession that the four majority parties now stand together and that we called for for for years in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e237	On Monday I had a meeting with a bricklayer at Gjøvik. He contacted me to talk about what he thought he needed in order that the training would be good. At the bottom he expressed a wish that the students should be professionally well protected for the crafts before they got into the leather. He pointed out that it was important to have the opportunity to train skills in practical and creative subjects from the first day of high school. So the mason used the same argument for early work to become a good skilled worker that we use as a argument for good reading, writing and math skills to pass the profession and become a good skilled worker. The centre party believes we need a combination of both theory and practice from school day one to get good skilled workers. Therefore, the question of the professional subjects is not only about the responsibility and responsibility of the county councils. The municipalities as principals of primary school have the same responsibility that we are able to train the good trade union workers we need. It is therefore important to keep a constant pressure on the work of professionals from national teams, but also from regional and local teams. We in the Central Party will therefore support the proposals of the Labour Party that are being presented today, but we must say that there is nothing more to be done for the professions if we are to re-promote proposals that we have already adopted in this Chamber in the past. That is our criticism of the proposals. But we share the impatience of the Labour Party. I think we're talking a lot with a lot of nice words in this room, but we're cleaning too little. I think the red-green government made a good big message with Meld. St. 20 for 2012–2013 Straight ahead. It was a good review of the professions. This message was adopted two years ago with a great deal of unanimity. It is the decisions of this message that we in the Central Party have constantly referred to when we believe that the follow-up to the decisions taken to improve the professions is too slow and that the measures are too small. We believe we have good reason to say that there has been no lifting for the professions with the blue-blue government. It is not the follow-up of the professional professions that the government prioritises. We're on the right road, but we don't prioritize 100 kilometers per hour, like one does on transportation. The centre party agrees that an advisory service should be strengthened, seafarer if this has also been expressed in the past. We believe that this is essentially time for advice, which is the main problem now. There is a point in the agreement between KS and the teachers. But we think it should be considered how the Storting should go in and detail the need for time for advice more than what we are doing today. Measures have already been put in place to enhance the skills of consultants, and we expect school owners to see the need for this and send their advisers to further education. Counsellors are also part of the hospitation scheme today, but the school owners must also send their advisers to the hospitation. We have talked a lot about hospitation arrangements for vocational teachers in this room. We have adopted a hospitation scheme in the past, and it was a probationary scheme in the period 2010-2012. I've said before that this isn't exactly any news either, and shown that my old vocational school principal of a mother was driving this at Gran secondary school in the 1980s. The evaluation of the 2014 HBS shows that all counties are now offering this scheme, but not all schools with professional programmes are participating. Of course, there are local variations, but our task is to point out and ensure that all county municipalities understand the importance of this exchange. So we have a lot to do when it comes to the follow-up of the profession to the county councils. In 2010, the red-green government set up the project New GIV. In 2013, there were 6,000 students participating in this offer, which is intensive training between the 10th grade and secondary schools. We believe it is important that this work continues, and requires it. It's very important to focus on the transition between stages, so we're helping students to get to high school. We have also already decided to make the common subjects more professionally relevant. And we have adopted more flexibility and more exchange models. We would have liked to have a majority in favour of our proposal to remove the word «coherent» on higher education in the Training Act, but we in the Center Party are essentially asking for one thing from the government, and that is action. We simply think that it is too little, Council of State! Two years after the decision, the Council of State writes in my answer that there are 24 schools participating in exchange models. It's too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e260	I would first like to thank the Labour Party for raising an important issue for debate here in the Stortinget. As several representatives have been involved, many of the proposals that are being promoted today have already been adopted, and many of them already work well from government teams. But I still think it is important that we have a pressure on the subject of professionalism. I therefore believe that the debate we have today, on the basis of the proposal that the Labour Party has made, is an important debate, because that is how we keep the debate alive, that is how we continue to press the trade. We have a challenge as a society when so few – or too few – students choose the professional direction. We know that we need many more skilled workers in the years to come, in different areas. Then it's our job to facilitate that those who want it, and those who have skills in these fields, should choose such a direction and complete their education in the direction they choose. Then it's worth reflecting a little bit on why so few choose the professional direction, and one of the things we get feedback about is that many people experience professional science as a sort of blind way – choosing a profession is what you become, and then you stop development after you finish the apprenticeship and get a professional letter. That's not right, and we know that, but we might have to come out with the message in a completely different way. Taking a letter is not a blindway, it's a springboard for whatever you want to do. You have a basis, you have a good education at the bottom that you can choose to work with, or you can choose to build up and choose other studies later. As many people have also been involved, we have the colleges, which I don't think are enough in people's consciousness when they think about what opportunities you have after completing a vocational education. There I know that the government is working to raise the colleges, and I look forward to the work that's going to happen, and that we're all going to be involved in, because I think we have a common intention to strengthen the colleges and to strengthen the whole of that offer. I think that's also important to show what opportunities exist if you choose a professional direction. One of the things that's crucial to giving people a letter, and for people not to drop out, is this with apprenticeships. I think there is reason to be extra alert in these days, now that the oil price has fallen, now that several companies – including apprentice companies – have to cancel employees and thus stand in a completely different situation when they are going to decide whether they want to continue to have apprentices. I am pleased that the apprenticeship grant has increased in the last two years, but I think we should also follow up on the consequences of recent developments in the labour market for the admission of apprentices. I also think it is very positive that the government is now taking action to make sure that the public itself sets up and accepts apprentices, because if we want the private business to accept its share, the public must also show that we are going ahead and accepting our share of the apprentices. It is one of the most important things we do to strengthen the professions — to make sure that there are apprenticeships. Another thing that I'm very pleased to have got in place, and which I hope we'll develop further, is this about lifting the professionals. We have adopted 50 million in this year's budget – but last year's decision. kr to a level of competence for non-qualified teaching staff. This will also benefit professionals, it is painfully intrusive and very necessary. I think strengthening teachers' skills is important. I would also like to end by mentioning what Tingelstad Wøien was at the end of his article, what is about exchange models. Making the teaching so that you want to continue – that you are allowed to do what you have chosen, that you get the practice into the school run earlier – I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e282	SV supports proposals from the Working Party. Of course, they do not address all the professional challenges, but they are a step on the way. Very many of the proposals are also from our common government period, actions that were warned by our knowledge ministers, but that the sitting government hasn't started, so here we need good, old enforcement power. If we zoom in a little while on what the situation here is: half of all the students are well educated and trained. Every year, about 30,000 students start on vocational training programmes, and figures from the Statistical Centre show that after five years there is only one third of those who have obtained a diploma. Some of them have in the meantime chosen a course of study design, but eventually there are about 13 000 people who do not have any kind of letter, diploma or proof that they have a competence after more than 10 years in Norwegian school. So that number, 13,000, is the same thing as the total population of Alta or Lillestrøm or Steinkjer – every year. It says a lot, and it's a lost possibility. There is a lot of Norwegian education in general that it is not all adapted. From the SV's perspective, we believe that we need more adapted training courses in the early stages of education, greater opportunities for varied education all the way. Practical-esthetic subjects are expensive, but losing everyone who loses the motivation of the theory-tung subjects is even more expensive. We need more teachers with different skills. This is one of the reasons why SV is so hard on several teachers in Norwegian school. Not only will this lead to more customised training, but it will allow more people to master things that they are interested in in at an early stage. It will also allow us to adapt the entire training course much more to each individual student from the beginning. We simply need a school where the whole human being is challenged, where the goal is not instrumental in feeding the elephants with information, but appealing to the creative and creative human beings, both theoretical, practical, aesthetic and possibly in other ways. The 13 000 also say a lot about vocational education and training in particular. We know that we have challenges related to education itself. The common part of the profession is the largest single cause of many falls. Should we perhaps have dismissed him and replaced him with a much more practical common ground? It would have cost, but it might have been worth it. Vocational training must become more attractive. Perhaps we should look at pay and working conditions in order to take on the important job of professional trainers in the face of the important societal task. Furthermore, in many industries, there are major problems in getting enough apprenticeships. This is shameful. There's a big obligation here on everyone. We can't talk about increasing recruitment to education without being able to give everyone a relevant and good apprenticeship offer. So finally, the discussions about the profession tend to exist in an own little room, in their own little context. But what we see now in the Norwegian economy, from the situation when the state budget was presented last October, and to what we see now in May 2015, are two quite different further. No one knew that the crisis that has now come into the oil industry would arise. No one saw it in advance. It came as a shock to all of us. Then one should have expected, in the process of a revised budget, that the government would come up with powerful measures to meet the serious situation of the entire Norwegian economy. At that time, we should be able to expect a Minister of Education, a Minister of Knowledge who, in his capacity, is doing his job to meet the challenges. We could imagine an increase in places of study, a powerful national effort in vocational training, which had really taken the picture of the Greatness in terms of weight and power. Instead, nothing happens in this field. It is just like that one said in the state budget in October 2014, still standing by. The world has changed, but the government is quite silent. Here has a huge potential to meet a major challenge for the Norwegian economy, and then it's being wasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e301	It's important not to be complacent. There's a lot of work done through the Vocational Training Plan, but we have to do a lot more. The aim, of course, is that vocational and vocational training should be an attractive and relevant education for all pupils, and that through vocational training we should contribute to the needs of the workforce. I think that's a goal that unites everyone in the hall. The Labour Party has proposed no less than 33 measures to strengthen the professions, and I believe that many of the proposals are good. But then I see in the vote that the committee has noticed what I have also noticed, namely that quite a number of these proposals have already been put in place. It is good to be able to deliver as well. Let me give you an example: the representative Henriksen mentioned in his post that you need more flexibility on the hour distribution, so that you can have better exchange models. That change has been at the hearing. It's going to come into force from August 1st, and then one of the formal barriers to having exchange models removed. The consensus on what is needed to strengthen the professions seems to be quite large. For example, the right-hand side proposed: in two representative proposals, in 2010 and 2012, to facilitate the possibility for non-teachers to qualify for a job in school, to increase the amount of the apprenticeship grant, to facilitate flexible training models, to correct the profession of a common subject and to provide better opportunities for students who do not receive an apprenticeship. During our first years of government, we have started or strengthened all these measures. So when there are proposals to do the same again – five years later than at least the first proposal from the Right came – I can fortunately say that it is well taken care of. In addition, we have done other things that were not described in the report. Article 20 for 2012–2013, on the right track, e.g. an intensified apprenticeship clause, which is on the way. I will not waste my time going through all the proposals that I agree with. Many of the proposals are good, and I would also like to say that many of the other proposals are exciting, and several of them are worth working on, but I think they need to be further worked on. I also want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for their emphasis on the need for an overall commitment to professional and professional training. It can be serious for the Norwegian economy and for competitiveness if we do not get more young people to complete vocational training, because then we will not be able to meet completely crucial labour needs in both the private sector and the basic welfare professions. Students must also have a good basis from primary school, so that they have the necessary prerequisites for completion. It is then important that there is a strong commitment to the knowledge school, the competence of teachers and, through the appropriations agreed between the majority parties, efforts to increase teacher density and more teaching positions in the school. It is essential that there are enough learning places. It is a responsibility that the public cannot take alone, but the public can make important contributions. We know that if you don't get an apprenticeship, there's a lot of people who fall off. There must also be opportunities for continuing training in the professions, and the labour market must demand the skills of the skilled worker. This is one of the reasons why we are now going through all the professional programmes together with the social partners, with a view to making them even more relevant to the labour market. So that's what we're working for on the professional level. We need to continue to improve the conditions for companies using the apprenticeship system, we need to continue to increase the quality and relevance of training, and we need to invest in the professional trainer. At the same time, we know that it is not enough to bet on training alone. As Mr Henriksen said, we also have to go to work. This is why the government has also put forward a strategy against the crime of working life, in order to help ensure that a serious and tidy working life awaits those who complete vocational training. Then it's important to knock down the bad guys. A very important measure is also the requirement for enterprises entrusted with public tasks to have apprentices. A clearer requirement could have a major positive impact on the recruitment of professionals and vocational training and on the development of skills for skilled workers and enterprises, particularly in the construction sector, which have been particularly vulnerable. There is therefore a great deal of positive activity, both directly related to vocational and vocational training and related to professional and professional training in the workplace. But we still have challenges that we're not quite sure how to solve. We know, for example. That we're going to have trouble finding learning places. In this respect, the important contribution – as I said – that the State can and must make, but we are not in the target. If you look at the social contract, where you committed yourself to a 20 pst. increase in the number of apprenticeship places, we have not met it – in close proximity. We also know that a lot of people are still going to wear out if we can't make sure that everyone gets the basics they need through primary school. I look forward to a large, wide and thorough debate today on the professional profession, and I appreciate the impatience of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e342	I thank the Minister of Knowledge for the article. The reason why these proposals come is that we want action in these areas, even where things have not happened. The Minister of Knowledge is now good at making proposals that have already been adopted, for example: in practical letters, which were introduced as a testing scheme under the Red-Green Government, evaluated in 2011 and adopted in 2013 in the context of the Green-Greening Communication On the right track. So two years later, the Minister of Knowledge launches that now practical letters will apply in all states, which had already been adopted. Or review of the supply structure, which was adopted in the context of the call for proposals On the right track – two years later, the Minister of Knowledge launches a review of the supply structure. So we can keep going on the list, for example. the right to build upon the completed letter of formal notice, adopted in the context of the Storing Communication On the right track – two years later, the Minister of Knowledge comes and says that it will now be implemented. We could talk about professional correction, flexible running, etc. Is the Minister of Knowledge saying that it is going to implement adopted things about. two years later is acting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e347	Implementing adopted policies is well the definition of action. To implement practical letters as a system in all states we have done as quickly as possible, but we have also done more, for example. introduced apprenticeship clause. Now we have notified a small but important system of labelling for apprentices. The educational grant, which the government first proposed to increase, and so that the majority parties increased through the budgetary agreement, is also not covered by the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. So I'm humble that we have to do a lot more, but that we are implementing the policy that a majority on the Storting has unanimously stood behind is, of course, a prerequisite. But we're also doing other things. And then I think it's a little funny, I have to admit, to get some criticism of what we've been doing in two years, after spending eight years before you've delivered one big message at the very last minute of the period. Then one should perhaps reflect on one's own executive power as one had the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e354	It has been said and made very important for the professions in Stortinget for many, many years – one will see if one goes back in protocols and reads there. What's the challenge is, how do we get this implemented in the counties? That's what I think seems like the most complicated. I have asked some questions to the Council of State in writing before the debate, among other things, and reference is made to what the Directorate of Education reports back to the Council of State, and also to the fact that the counties have the full overview. I believe that both the Council of State and I and the whole majority want the states to do what we decide on the Storting, and then I want to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to get an overview of what is actually happening in each state, both in terms of exchange models and hosting schemes, etc.? How do we get a system where the states actually implement what the Stortinge imposes on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e359	We have an overview of the sector. But then it is absolutely right that the counties are responsible for vocational and vocational training, and the counties decide what the Stortinget decides when they decide that the counties have to do something. An example is a letter of practice. There will be no choice as to whether or not to offer practical letters; there will be a system in all countries. But then there are other types of schemes, where the Stortinge e.g. decides to have a grant to stimulate the states to try something. Then we're dependent on the states cooperating, and they want to do this. And then it's a frustration -- it's like that in a country where you have a decentralised structure, and we should also have that -- that in some areas there's too many states that don't do their job well enough. Dimensioning is an important example. It also concerns the Workers' Party's proposal for a representative. There are too many states that take too easy to dry out the tough priorities according to what the labour market actually needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e364	I thought the Minister had a rather weak definition of 'negotiating power'. Action is not just implementing adopted policies. Shopping force is about seeing what the situation is in – and then, then, acting in a proper way. Only a little over a week ago, the revised state budget came, and there will be no action when it comes to professionalism. So the question is, has the Minister realized that we are in a rather serious situation for the Norwegian economy, when there is no major measure in the field of education since the state budget was presented in October? It worries me. So if I'm going to try to get a proper answer from the minister in this context, the question must be: does the Minister see professional investment as part of how Norway will meet the big challenge we have for the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e371	The answer to that is yes. Another question is whether we are now in a period when we need more crisis-affected measures, as we had when the financial crisis came. There was a completely different situation for the Norwegian economy than now, and then you have to follow developments closely and see how it develops. But there's no doubt that we're going to have problems, we see that, for example. in the West, in part of the offshore industry and in part of the supplier industry. We see that they are struggling with the bottom line, laboring with earnings, struggling with investments. It could also mean that they'll be more skeptical about taking in apprentices, and if that's an accelerated situation, we also need to use the tools we have in the field of knowledge to address it. But I don't think the revised budget this year, and the situation we're in right now, required a kind of crisis package of the magnitude or the dimensions that we had when the financial crisis rolled over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e380	Governments are quite right in that the situation is different from that of the financial crisis, when the capital situation made it quite precarious for the big society to set up. But what we are now seeing is a completely different type of slow crisis – as we can call it – that is going on, where it is just the long-term measures that could apply. And these long-term measures will be vocational training, study places, universities, colleges — that is, very many of the measures that are just at the Minister of Knowledge’s table, measures that were not equally relevant in the face of the financial crisis. So what I'm really curious about, is whether a new precinct – from the department's side – is a package of measures that will come before the ordinary state budget of the autumn, or is the minister at the whole idea stage in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e387	I'm a little unsure about how to answer that question. If the question is: do we work all the time to see if the government's policy, overall, is adapted to the economic situation in Norway, then the answer to that is yes. If the question is: is knowledge policy, vocational training, part of it, then the answer to that is yes. But then I want to say that some of the things we have actually done – and several of them are not directly affected in the Report. Art. No. 20 for 2012–2013, e.g. to introduce an enhanced apprenticeship clause: to say that when the public buys, it must be required that you are not just an apprentice company but that you have apprentices on the projects you order. It's important. We're now tightening up the requirements for what the state itself has to do to take in sufficient numbers of apprentices. In the Ministry of Knowledge we have strengthened the requirements further; we have made higher demands for, for example: universities and colleges in terms of the number of pupils to be admitted. The report on vocational education, as the representative Tyvand said – which is now a NOU out at the hearing; we come back with a report on the school – is also a crucial part of it, and the corresponding apprenticeship grant, which has now increased for two consecutive years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e397	I think the impatience in the hall is about two things. One is that the Council of State is doing too little. The second is that he's made it his form of work to recycle old things like new proposals. It's just funny when he went all over the front page of the VG to give the teachers the opportunity to lock up classrooms and retract mobile phones, and 90,000 teachers knew that this was a long way to go. You have to introduce an apprenticeship clause, says the Council of State. It was introduced in 2012. The government has sharpened it, that's good, but the introduction happened before. A practical letter — well, it was introduced in 2006 and evaluated in 2011, and it was decided in Spring 2013 that this would apply to all states. Two years later, the Council of State does just that. In the magazine The Build Master, the director writes: ‘It may seem that the Council of State has missed what is happening in an hour, as many did in school, because they were busy with something else or talking for themselves’. Does the Council of State realize that even other people than the Workers' Party have the impression that there is a lot of talking and little doing here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e409	I would like to welcome everyone who is impatient about the professions. So I notice that the representative Geske recycles old posts and old points, but I'm not going to dwell on it. It is important to implement adopted policies, but we also do more. One might say that the apprentice clause was already there – yes, but it was too little obligatory. It's just to ask the social partners: when there was an obliging apprentice clause that says not only that you should or can or at all should be judged, but that you should have apprentices. The apprenticeship grant stood still in the budgets for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012 – and as far as I remember in 2013. Now, with the majority parties, it's increased two years in a row. So this is not the follow-up to the big message that the red-greens delivered at the very last eight years, it's a new policy. I believe that we have set a standard for the implementation of the professional commitment, but there is still a lot to be done again.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e418	I'm going to pay tribute to the Council of State for the fact that, almost two years after he joined, he implements what the Stortinget decided two years ago – that practical letters are to be introduced into all counties. It takes time to amend a regulation in line with a unanimous majority in the Stortinget. As stated in this editorial of the President of the Building Master, there is a tendency for the Council of State to start new investigations in which the majority of the Grand Duchy has already given marshallers: ‘The Minister of Knowledge returns to the start.’ It is this that gives this impatience, that one is more concerned with promoting old, adopted proposals – promoted by the red-green government – as its own in the media than actually being implemented. In a big look in the class struggle, the practical letter was produced as an invention from Røe Isaksen. It's almost ten years since you started with practical letters in the counties. Does the council realize impatience, and will he now concentrate on implementing more, and perhaps talk a little less?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e427	Now I have well in all the posts I have had in this case, said that I don't just understand the impatience, I'm glad of the impatience, because there should have been a great deal of pressure on this, and there should be more pressure than it has been in the previous years. I also believe that we are showing that. I am a little uncertain whether I would be so tall and dark in accusing others of recycling proposals. The example was used by the representative Henriksen, who called for a change to make it easier to implement the exchange model. That's a change that's coming on August 1st. It is striking that, although there are many interesting and exciting proposals among the 33 proposals of the Workers' Party, the large majority have not only been adopted before, but under implementation – not under investigation, as it says in the Builder's Master. The representative Guess should also read my reply to that. It is also funny that the Labour Party at its national meeting, for example. found the need to adopt an apprenticeship clause in a sharp and good formulation many weeks – yes, it was well even months – after the government had said it was coming, and we implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e434	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e439	The self-employed skilled worker is often promoted as a competitive advantage for Norway — and rightly so. Good professional workers are important for the labour market, the business community, the welfare state — in short, for the whole of social development. However, good action in one sector does not help if it is undermined by lack of action or counter-effect measures in another. Therefore, many government councils could have taken part in this debate, for this is as much about the responsibilities of the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Minister of Finance as the Minister of Knowledge. Among the main reasons for low-status professionalism are the problems in the labour market in which it operates — a labour market characterised by unprofessional actors, high levels of rental, part-time jobs, temporaryity, black work and social dumping. When this is the job waiting, it is no wonder that students choose to take a professional course or that parents recommend that they go a different way. Education policy is not in a bubble; things are linked. It does not help to talk about the professions when the majority of the population simultaneously make changes to the Working Environment Act which weakens a good and safe working life. Opening up even more temporaryity only exacerbates the conditions we already see in, for example. the construction industry. The Labour Party will work to ensure that young people choose a professional profession and know that a serious and well-organised working life awaits them. That is why we have also put forward proposals to develop a new and reinforced action plan against social dumping, which unfortunately did not receive a majority in this Chamber either. To get more people to complete their initial vocational training is about the quality of training, not only in the vocational training programmes, but from the very first year of school. The Christian People's Party has highlighted in the debate the importance of early action, and we fully agree with that, but we want a much greater commitment. Being able to read, write and calculate well is the key to mastering the rest of the school. Those who do not break the code in the first school year are the same students who fall from the vocational education programmes eight to nine years later. This is why the Workers' Party will have a reading, writing and math lift, which ensures all students the help they need to learn these three basic skills in the first year of school. The working party is engaged in vocational training courses. It was the Stoltenberg government that submitted the Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, Straightway — Quality and diversity in primary schools. The position also points to this message in its comments, and that is good. They write, and they also say today, that it is very positive that the government and the cooperation parties started a professional lift in the autumn of 2013. Like the Central Party, I have problems finding the big bet, and it's a shame that the Labour Party's proposal in the State budget is 320 million. in order to strengthen the professions, no majority was given. The positioning parties believe that many of the proposals that are being promoted today have already been dealt with by the government. But what is the problem of voting for? I find it strange that they do not vote for any of the 33 proposals presented here – not a single one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e456	The government, together with the bourgeois parties on the Stortinget, has started our professional career well after we took over the red-green. Together, we strengthen the work of correcting practices, make education more relevant and raise status. ‘We learn the most from being in business’ said the young black man and plumber Hans Martin to the Bladet Vesterålen after being interviewed about the choice of a professional course, which he obviously did not regret. His Martin has chosen forward-looking. The SSB shows that Norway will lack 110 000 skilled workers by 2030. This has been pointed out by the bourgeois parties in opposition over a long period of time, and it also shows that our commitment to the profession has been overtime. One of the main objectives of the government is to realise the knowledge society. Norway is in transition, and it imposes high standards on our education system. It will require a willingness to refocus on quality throughout the education and training sector. Today, when we are discussing vocational training, as the representative of Tyvand earlier today, I will also bring up vocational education as part of this in order to ensure attractive training opportunities throughout vocational training. This will equip industry and the labour market for the future. It is a good thing that the Labour Party is raising a debate on the professions in Stortinget. The civil parties called for action from the red-green government and finally promoted a private representative proposal in 2010, which was not endorsed. It was only in 2013, at the tame of the red-green government period, that Meldning. St. 20 for 2012–2013, On the right track, came. Fortunately, the treatment in Stortinget showed that there is a broad consensus on a number of measures, which the current government follows up, and which are not least further strengthened. Already in the supplementary and subsequent budgetary agreements, the bourgeois parties have shown a change of pace and a focus on the professional sectors with concrete measures that strengthen cooperation with industry, provide better advice, increased focus on hosting and the Lektor2 scheme, more use of exchange models, to mention something. Only in the last two fiscal years have we, as mentioned earlier, reinforced the apprenticeship grant by NOK 7 000. Think, we have to go back to a financial crisis in 2009 for what really triggered the increase under the red-green. But everything is not about the budgets. I am very pleased with the government's demands for changes for apprentices in public tenders. Think, we go from ‘can’ to ‘should’ and from ‘should’ to ‘should’ to ‘should’ to include apprentices in state enterprises, a measure that shows a government with power of action and that will provide more places of learning so that more young people can complete and pass. Access to apprenticeships is a key to success, especially since almost everyone who gets a course completes with a degree. When we then see that the Workers' Party proposes as an important measure to give priority to additional grants to enterprises where apprentices obtain vocational letters, this shows that not all of the 33 proposals are just as good or give priority to the most important. Maybe this could be an explanation of why the apprentice grant in the past wasn't highly prioritised by the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e471	We need good trade union workers for future trade union workers who will work in the new industry, and for example. will build Follobana. Discreet gender balance and social dumping are two self-enhancing reasons for fewer occupations. If you want to change it, you need to have a better gender balance. We have to make sure everyone gets a lesson. It must be possible to go from general to professional. One must get better advice, and one must get better practical skills already in the backbone. That's 4 pst. girls in car and electric professions and 9 pst. boys in health and social sciences. These numbers have been stable for quite a long time. Before the previous government resigned, she submitted Report. St. 44 for 2012–2013 on equality. There this was done well in a whole chapter. This message revoked the government of the United States. But what's positive is that I've read in the government platform of the Right and the Progress Party that it says: ‘Promote measures aimed at increasing the choice of non-traditional education and careers, in order to contribute to a less gender-based working life.’ Then I really want to ask and challenge the Minister of Education on what he has done with regard to that point. Here are some tips anyway: In order to increase the potential for gender-based choices, it is important that we strengthen the work of counselling and education in the youth sphere. Then we have to have equality officers, who can follow up on the work in secondary schools and in apprenticeships. I want to tell you about Emilie. When she went to 10th grade, she was offered to enter a «tastebit course» on electro and car at Secondary High School, as part of the subject's educational choices. She chose it. There she got to be with other girls, who were car mechanics, electricians or apprentices. She had them as instructors. Now it is she who goes to the advanced school, at Vg2 electrophage. She is a student leader there, in a well-dominated school, and she is now to begin learning as a train electrician. Now she wants to be an informer and to go out and try to teach others. But then one has to have someone responsible for coordinating that work. As of today, this is dependent on only fires. If there are no fireworks in the state that do it, no work will be done. So I really want to hear what the council thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e491	“Clock heads and industrious hands” is an expression I remember from growing up, but I like the Danish mason and book writer Mattias Tesfaye’s expression “kick hands”. Professional work is about competence and ‘skills’. We know that our society is dependent on good, skilled professionals with ambitions on behalf of the subject. It's through the combination of good, practically oriented professionals and skilled theorists we get to innovation and development in the world of work. Many young people want vocational training and a fast way out to work, and many people want training where the classroom is replaced by a modern business room. At the same time, we all know here that very many people who start their vocational training do not complete. I think we have to admit that, through changing governments for some decades, we have not had a sufficient focus on developing the professions on their own premises. That is why I welcome this government's clear message that professional subjects should be an important pillar of government's education policy. And I'm glad that the Workers' Party has renewed its vocational training and is now helping to keep up the pressure in this area. That's good. When we look at the proposals put forward in this matter, we agree that there are many good measures that can be reconciled with the policies of the government parties. Many of the measures are, as we have heard, already in progress or under way. I would like to draw up three points which, in my view, will be of great importance for how well we will succeed with a stronger commitment to the professions. One is a better school advisory service, which many people have been involved in. The government’s commitment to master training to enhance the quality of advisory services is one important and long-term measure in this way. The second is the strategy to increase the number of apprentices in the public sector. Here, the government's introduction of a binding apprenticeship clause is a powerful tool. It should be a very clear challenge for the entire public sector – both state, state and municipality – and it is also a strong signal to the private sector. The last point I want to point out is the possibilities we now have to develop an overall course of vocational education and training on the tertiary level. Governments have promised their own big message as a follow-up to NOU 2014: 14, Fagskolen – an attractive choice of education. There is a unique opportunity to strengthen a wider race that can attract well-motivated and ambitious young people with facilities for higher-level practical work. It's exciting. Young people will have development opportunities, and in this process I hope there will be opportunity and room for innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e510	It is positive that all parties seem to want to give the professions a necessary boost, but it is a weakness that the Stortinget does not seem to be able to gather on a joint decision which sees all the different measures in context. But enough about it. Professionals are under pressure from many sides. One of the most important forms of pressure is the representative Henriksen was in, and we are seeing more and more developments in Norwegian working life. I think of so-called new forms of employment that are spreading, where people are being given up and transferred to recruitment agencies, and then rented out again to worse conditions than before. I am thinking of so-called permanent employment without a guarantee payment, which means that you only get paid when you are on a job. I am thinking about the weakening of the Working Environment Act that the majority of people have just adopted. I think of black work, serious crime at work and social dumping. And then I imagine the conversation around the breakfast table as the young people in the house are approaching completion of primary school and together with the parents are going to make the decision on further education. And on the table is Dagbladet, where the director of Kripos tells of mafia-like conditions in parts of Norwegian business, and where the profession is the common name. How likely is it then that the profession becomes the first choice? To date, the government has had a too passive attitude towards the fight against social dumping and crime at work and has directly countered it by abolishing collective rights of appeal for elected representatives. Finally, I would like to strike a blow for the Master Letter subject that no one has been involved in this debate. It is the country's own tripartite tool to increase professional competence, but it is sorted by the Ministry of Industry, and perhaps that is why the professional skills they possess are easily forgotten. Master training is e.g. a management training in the professional field which is known to be available. The school counselors know a little. We're more concerned with showing young people that choosing a professional is not so dangerous, because you can always acquire your study skills afterwards. In Norway, we are more concerned with levels of competence in academic disciplines than with visualising and developing similar opportunities in professional subjects as such. There is therefore little provision for higher vocational education in Norway. Poland and the Baltic countries are now expanding this. In Germany, master's letters are at the same level as Bachelor's, and we can also make such professional qualifications based on what we already have: Professionals' letters, letters of association and master's letters in cooperation with the Department of Vocational Training and Master's thesis under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, of course, within the framework of a decent working life under the Minister of Labour. If the three ministers had sat together, we would have been a good move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e521	The speakers for the government in this debate, both Kristin Vinje, Bente Thorsen and Anders Tyvand, are very pleased with what is happening. Red Isaac even asked me to read the answer in the magazine Builder to get an overview of what happened. Well, I brought with me this answer. In this answer dated 18 May 2015, Røe Isaksen frames up six measures, which are the government's professional profession, and which I assume are the most important initiatives. Item No 1: Right of establishment following completion of vocational and vocational training was introduced last autumn. – Yes, quite right, on a proposal and by decision of a red-green majority in spring 2013. Item No 2: a review of all vocational training programmes is carried out; – Yes, quite right, on the basis of proposals and decisions of a red-green government and a red-green majority in spring 2013. Item No 3: A requirement is introduced to have apprentices for companies wishing to carry out a large public mission. – Yes, quite correctly, introduced by the red-green government, but correctly intensified, altered, compared to the individual projects of the Red Isaksen. Item No 4: Policy letters have been tested in several countries with good results. Yes, absolutely right, that is, introduced many years ago. Now it is stipulated that all states should have it, but it has also been invited to do long ago. So there's only one of these proposals, namely increased apprenticeship grants, which the government can claim in any way is a kind of new initiative, even though under the red-green government there was also an increase in apprenticeship grants. This very much reminds me of the start of this professional project, which was launched in autumn 2013. We all remember how all new apprentice companies would get $50,000 each. It was a huge boost with brawl and brawl and large media essays, and then it turned out that there was NOK 5000 for every apprentice company. Since then, we have never heard the Council of State talk about the stimulation of new apprenticeships. What the Council of State does not comment on is why the Right now goes against what we are proposing on the Y road, why we go against what we are proposing on counselling services, hospitation schemes, intensive training for everyone, and not least the funding system that ensures that the counties and businesses are paying for apprentices. On the contrary, we see something completely different now. It is now necessary to provide for a full private right to start vocational schools, which make it much more difficult to dimension, much more uncertain to finance, much more difficult for the counties to facilitate the completion of their apprenticeships and professionals. So the only big, really noticeable measure goes in the wrong direction. It would be interesting to hear why the Right now votes against all of these proposals that you claim to have promoted in 2010 and not got a majority, but now you have the opportunity, the chance is there, and the invitation is at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e541	I refer to gender balance in previous articles, but I also mention two other important measures, and there are apprenticeships and opportunities for re-election in the further training. If we are to get the elephants to choose a professional course, they must be sure that they will have a place to learn. It's pretty little interesting to start an education if you're not sure if you can finish it. If you don't get a place to study, you have to offer to take a letter at school. There must also be a requirement that all enterprises that supply to the public should have a place of learning. So I think it's unlikely to be important to re-election when you go to the further education -- that's also referred to in the proposal -- because it's pretty early to choose which one should become for the rest of your life when you're 15 years old. Selecting a profession, one can fortunately change his mind and say that one wants to study, then one can take the third supplemental year and get the study skills and go on that road, but has started in general and gone one, two or three years there, and thinking that becoming an electrician would actually be pretty good for me, one then has used up the possibility of saying. That exchange seems like I have to, that possibility is enough for us to give our young people. I think maybe a little bit longer too; I think we can create a compressed professional build-up year, because then probably most of the common subjects have. Then one could have a compressed year where one can acquire the professional, so one is ready to learn afterwards. I think I can get more young people to choose a profession, because, as I said, one is young when one is 15 years old – maybe one has different thoughts when one is 18 years old. So I also think that the letter should simply give you study competence. I thought we should increase the bet on the prom, it's called here before today, and it's unlikely that we should bet on and work on the Y way, so that no one should feel like the representative from the left said, that one believed one started something, and then one was there for the rest of his life. There are possibilities today, but I think we should work more with them and expand the possibilities. I'm glad that the whole hall agrees on a professional level. I hope that happens, and that we can see the results quickly. I would still like to hear the answer from the Council of State on my first post – on what he has done with regard to the government platform and non-traditional educational choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e556	I think the debate bears the mark of a great commitment, and I think we all have the good of reading the Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, a bit repetitive and at regular intervals, so we are aware of what we have actually adopted in the past. I understand that the Council of State gets a little upset about criticism not to do enough. I can understand that, but it is also an expression that we want to implement the unanimous decisions we made here in the Storting two years ago, faster. And, as the representative Geske said instead, in this respect by regulation, must it take two years for a regulation to be implemented? It shall be put into operation until the harvest. There was nothing in the 2015 state budget that would enable county municipalities to implement the exchange model. Increased flexibility in vocational training will require some increased economic muscles for county municipalities. There was nothing in the revised national budget either, so I would like to challenge the Council of State on how he sees that county councils are going to do within their own budget to implement these exchange models that have been tried by now, but which I think there are some county councils already running – some small attempts – on their own. I want to hear what the Council of State is doing with it. I want to repeat what the Education Directorate says, that there are 24 schools participating in exchange models today. Very well known are at least nine schools with vocational courses in Oppland. That means that 24 schools are very, very small, and I hope the council can come back next year and say that now we're up in a much higher number. I wish the Council of State luck with that. So the representative, Gudmundsen, said that everything is not about budget. He's right about that. But flexibility is actually a lot about it, because we have to be able to do this. Another thing that I am disappointed with is that there was no majority to remove the word ‘coherent’ in the Training Act on a proposal from the Centre Party. That's my answer to the representative, Eldegard, about being able to re-elect high school. It should be a goal for us to get the most out of high school. Whether it's continuous in three years, or whether it's three years, should be completely immaterial. We know that both Uppland County Municipality and the Southern District Municipality have made such decisions, and I think it should be a right for everyone. I would like to ask the Council of State how he believes that one should ensure that county municipalities are able to implement exchange models and perhaps also hospitation schemes in a better way than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e573	I think there have been a lot of good contributions to this debate and a lot of good points that I think we can agree on in the main hall. I must say at the same time that I think it has been a bit of a strange debate. The largest party in this room chooses to promote 33 proposals, the party leader supports those proposals – not that he has taken part in the debate or been in the Chamber, but he has been involved in promoting them – and then the debate of the Workers' Party is about what the Council of State has done and has not done on the basis of a leading article in a trade journal. I think that's a little surprising. I believe that what's most important now, when we're going to discuss these things, is: how do we get more people to choose a profession, and how do we get more people to do when they start there? First of all, I think we need to lower the threshold to choose. It also means that you have to be able to change the way you go, that your parents are not so concerned about the choices you make as a student that they advise their own children not to choose a profession, when we know that that country will need in the future, are good professionals. The second is implementation. If you correct for what characterization you have when you get in, it's not like the drop-out is slightly higher in the professional field than in the study-specific. Once again, it means that we do a lot of good in the professional field. What's interesting about sitting on the Education Committee is traveling around the country and experiencing that very many people who come to Norway to learn from us are very interested in the way we conduct our professional activities. I don't think everything is perfect, much can get better, but it's quite interesting how we in Norway have solved that challenge by working with private businesses to get a good vocational education. In that context, where we cooperate so well and closely between the public and the private, I also think it makes sense to allow the industries themselves to start schools where there is close contact with the industries and where it really works. I think it is strange to think that it is the great threat that some professional schools run by the industries themselves are also allowed. The last thing is that if you want implementation to work, you have to get more apprenticeship places. That means we have to increase the apprentice's grant. The representative Geske said it was increased also under the red-green ones. Well, it was temporarily increased in 2009 – it was the only time they increased anything on apprenticeship grants for businesses. But we also have to make sure that the companies that take in apprentices have an incentive for it, and that the state presses both through its purchasing power and through its own obligation to take in apprentices. There's something this government is doing, it's something the previous government didn't do, and I think it's better to discuss measures than hanging out in trifles.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e589	I would like to thank you for the debate so far and also the representative Henrik Asheim, who is doing something I have missed a little, namely that the government parties are looking forward to. Our criticism is primarily about the lack of new, big bets. We would like to give credit for, for example: The apprenticeship clause has been tightened up, but so far the new major measures have been the exception, and in the 2015 government budget, the government proposed little – or actually a cut – in the professional field, before the Christian People's Party and the Left rescued it and increased the apprenticeship grant. When the government says that they carry out a professional lift, it is, as the representative Giske also showed, practical letters, offer structure, right of attachment, professional correction – measures adopted in 2013, i.e. almost a red-green lift. Then there are some of the measures that we promoted in January, which are now in progress. We are very pleased about that, and I will give tribute to the Minister of Knowledge for that, for example. that there is flexibility in the hour distribution. But we're impatient. The Minister of Knowledge included: and, as the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has shown in his posts, much happened at that time. But there is now an exciting debate about the future, and I would also encourage the Minister of Knowledge and the Government parties to sign up to it. We heard little about how the government looks at some of the new ideas and measures being promoted today, which are an opportunity to develop new policies. It had e.g. It is interesting to know whether any of the measures can be a way to go even if they are not adopted today, for example. to improve the ability of vocational trainers to continue their training in programme subjects. A professional teacher may be as good at learning English as a general teacher. Or how we can make the exchange model work. Then we need more companies to set up, and then we suggest that they get financial subsidies. Or, for example,: If education is to be realistic, better up-to-date equipment is needed in schools. We're proposing a stepping-up plan for that. We need job guidance at several schools, which can be involved and co-ordinated and guided. We'll get better hospitations and better exchange models. We propose a fund – a spice team – to get more apprenticeships and more apprenticeships. It is also a good way to increase the ownership of education by working life and by enterprises. Or, for example, an incentive scheme to motivate more students to complete their vocational letters. Apart from the fact that Kent Gudmundsen's representative was skeptical until now, we've heard little from the government parties about these thoughts, whether this might be the right way to go, and whether there's anything you want to go on. Fortida is a fascinating place, but it is in future policy. I really hope that we can continue the trend in seeing proposals and actions from the previous big message, which was presented by the red-green government, or proposals in this proposal for a representative actually become reality and are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e619	I would like to say thank you for the debate and answer a few of the things I was asked about. The representative Tingelstad Wøien asks how we're going to get more people to implement the exchange model. Today we pay to have trials. Now we're doing one of the most important things: removing the formal obstacle to implementing it. Then, of course, the companies, as the representative Henriksen points out, must receive grants. They must do so in the same way as in the apprenticeship system. So I believe that basically the states have to have the primary responsibility to use this. But if this – after we have removed the formal barriers, made it simple, arranged – is still used little, and it requires financial encouragement to be done, then of course we have to consider it. At the same time, I would also like to say that it is a little important that we do not create national schemes that tear legs under the states that work well, for example. Rogaland, which is otherwise civilly run, but which with broad, cross-political consensus works very well both to get young people to choose vocational and vocational training, to get them to commit to apprenticeships and get them through vocational and vocational training. They believe that an important point is to maintain the 2+2 model as the main model. I also believe that this is important, but that the exchange model is an important and good addition in many places, the practical letter system too. I'm in favour of and just for. The possibility of doing so has also been strengthened with this government – more money has been given to the hostilities. With regard to the issue of gender-untraditional choices, I must honestly admit that it is a headache, and it has been for many years, simply because it is a little difficult – challenging, to say the least – to go into the mind of the individual and influence young people to choose something else. What we know has limited effect is the type of recruitment campaigns and stuff. I believe that we must constantly show good examples, that we must show the breadth, that we must highlight, for example, the importance of this. boys who choose untraditionally, or girls who choose untraditionally. But this is also a work to which the government comes back when the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, with contributions from the Ministry of Knowledge, provides an equal opportunities notice if not too much time. Finally, there are several proposals from the Workers' Party that I think it is worth working on – in the sense, look at – but I think they require more work. For example, I am also fascinated by the Danish apprenticeship fund scheme. The disadvantage of doing what the Workers' Party wants, and introducing it now, is that it, I'm afraid, can weaken the ownership that all the parties have of vocational training. In other words, I believe it is important to try to ensure that there is as much support as possible for, for example. to carry out an attempt to do so. I also agree that it is a paradox that we have an economic system today where the county council is neither rewarded nor punished for non-response at all. There is also something I think we should continue working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e636	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and for the strong commitment that all parties in the Committee have to the professional professions. Henrik Asheim wondered why the magazine Builder has become so central. Well, we received a very concrete call from the Council of State to read his answers in this issue, and I repeat: Of six proposals that he made in this article, five were from the Red-Green Government. The only thing that he could say in any genuine way comes from himself, was the increased apprentice grant. So these $7,000 are in their entirety – at least in this post – the professional profession that the government is talking about. It is true that, after presenting this Document 8, the Council of States has actually turned around and – its usual belief – made some of the proposals to its own. It is made clear that vocational trainers must be part of the continuing training effort. It is also made clear and reinforced in the apprenticeship clause that apprentices should be included in the project in question – what we propose in proposal 18. There has also been a warning about a regulatory change in exchange models and the possibility of varying schedules. That is why we are going to propose that proposals 9, 11 and 18 be converted into transmission proposals, but still there are 30 proposals, which do not give any very good reason why you are opposed, other than that I understood that some of them were proposed in 2010 and did not get a majority in favour of them, and that, therefore, you do not want to contribute to the fact that there is a majority in favour of them now. I think Anders Tyvand even said when he was in opposition, we suggested a number of things. I see that the Christian People's Party is still in opposition, but it may have changed lately. However, it is good if the Council of State follows up the 30 other proposals as well, even if his party does not vote for them today. If we are to build on the experience we have with his two years so far in the Council of State chair, these proposals – including our 30 other proposals – come gradually in the columns of the newspapers, but then as his own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e649	The representative, Giske, then explained that proposals 9, 11 and 18 have been converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e652	Thank you to the Chamber for an engaging debate on professional subjects. As I said at the outset, I believe that Stortinget is on the right track in strengthening the professions. We have shown this today by the fact that both position and opposition are eager to improve and do more to strengthen our own ability to provide us with good trade union workers for the future. We depend on that to provide us with a competitive business and to provide a basis for the well-being of our country in the future. I have been challenged as to why we do not support all these proposals. I want to answer that it is precisely because the 33 proposals are a sandwich list consisting of very many proposals that have already been adopted in this Chamber. There is nothing more happening in practice if proposals are re-adopted. Then it has become clear in the debate that some of the proposals are good, and the Council of State itself has said that he will look more at them in the future. That's very good. But it is not the case that the 30 remaining proposals mentioned by Giske need to be adopted once more in order to do something about them, if necessary. I want to say that the government has high ambitions on behalf of the professions. That's what the Council of State has explained, and we've also explained that in our articles, where we've clarified what the government is working on. There is a mixture of both follow-up of concrete measures adopted in the context of the reporting process. St. 20 for 2012–2013, On the right track, and in addition, a whole range of measures that the government is lifting on its own keel. We have increased the apprenticeship grant twice in two years, and I would like to say that it is a very important measure precisely because apprenticeships are important for students to undertake vocational education. So nothing was done about anything other than the financial crisis year 2009, while the red-green government had power. Nor is it as Trond Giske claims in his story, that Kristin Vinje is very pleased, or that the council and government are very pleased and satisfied with the state of things. No, we're ambitious. We have high ambitions. That's what we say, and we do that, and that's why we want to keep working on strengthening the professions. And finally, I want to say that we are also concerned with ensuring good professional education at a higher level and further developing the vocational schools as a training course. We have received a NOU, Fagskolan – an attractive choice of education. There is an announcement of a separate survey of this, which will look at vocational education in addition to secondary education. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e665	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e679	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e686	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation with regard to the Central Party's proposal for a representative. The representative proposal contains three proposals, which are aimed at introducing the subject of work compulsory at the level of youth, that the government be asked to provide good guidance to assist in the preparation of local curricula, and that the government is asked to facilitate the further training of teachers who are to teach in the field. The Committee also agrees, in its opinion, on the two latter proposals. The majority believe that these two proposals have been taken care of and refer to the letter of reply of the Minister of Knowledge of 24 March 2015. The Committee welcomes the subject and has also noted that teachers believe that the motivation of students in other schools has improved and that the subject has given students greater insight into the choice of higher education. The Committee therefore supports the government, which will now make the subject a permanent offer in the youth electoral field from the autumn of 2015. I would also like to point out that a joint committee agrees that it is the individual school that knows its situation best, and that it is therefore the school that is best placed to decide which choices to offer and whether to offer the labour market in addition. The Committee is in favour of the subject but is divided in terms of making the subject of employment compulsory. With this, I consider myself to be finished with the rapporteur's comments and move on to the Progress Party's view on this matter. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection believes that the proposals No. 2 and 3 on the preparation of guidance to assist in the preparation of local curricula and to facilitate the further training of teachers teaching in the field. The guide shall enter into force from the autumn. With regard to the training of teachers who teach in the field, the formidable effort to continue training for teachers also applies to teachers in the practical and aesthetic fields. The party of progress will not support making the subject compulsory, as it will necessarily have to go at the expense of linguistic depression and school autonomy. For the Advancement Party, it is important to demonstrate that good language skills are important. The ability of Norwegian language learning may be the most important thing to acquire knowledge and to work in society. In addition, if you speak foreign languages, you make a strong statement. A survey of foreign languages helps to improve the performance of pupils also in other schools, increases the possibility of continuing training, and makes students more attractive in the labour market, since the demand for multilingual labour is increasing. For the Progress Party, it is important that no one is forced to take the second foreign language. Today’s educational provision means that students who are not motivated enough or lack sufficient skills to take second foreign language are allowed to choose Norwegian or English depression instead. In addition, students can now soon choose depression in mathematics or work where this is offered, rather than a second foreign language. With this in mind, we believe that the freedom of choice of students is respected. Good control of Norwegian, English and a second foreign language is also of great importance for students, but at the same time the Progress Party is concerned that students in secondary school should have good alternative choices to replace second foreign language. Not everyone has the desire, the ability, or the motivation to take a language, and it is therefore important that the school provides a good alternative for these students. The Progress Party believes that freedom of choice and consideration for students are well maintained in today’s system and that the forthcoming changes will help improve the situation for students. It is important to facilitate more practical training in higher education, including: through practical correction of teaching subjects and local freedom to establish an electoral profession. Here, the Progress Party has confidence in the local schools. We assume that the school and the teachers know best the needs of their students. The Progress Party will therefore not impose a central requirement on all schools in the country to introduce the labour market. Rectors and teachers should have the freedom to make their own elective courses tailored to the needs and needs of students and, in particular, to the needs of working life and business in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e707	I hope the president allows me to draw a little story. It's about a loop hour, and it starts like this: ‘A sharp whistling sound pierced the air in the estuary that was filled with the sound of planks that were processed into loaves of bread. The whistled sound meant collection at the catheter. When everyone was in a ring around the catheter, the teacher looked at us and said, "Don't you think so – you've got it! – believers in it, boy?’ “Jaaaa!” we replied in chorus. The teacher got up, went to the window and looked out. Then he turned around and said to us. ‘You shouldn’t believe it — it’s the biggest nonsense ever said — because you don’t have it in mind, so you don’t have it anywhere. It takes a good hat to become good craftsmen, you see!’ So he addressed one of the students who still stood and planed and asked, ‘Do you plan with a hat or a hinda?’ ‘With a hinda...’, the answer sounded cautious. "I can see that," replied the teacher. ‘You have to use hat, understand’ u.’ This little story of a fish biologist and a doctor of molecular biology, Dag Oppen Berntsen, from his time as a high school student, I read in Morgenbladet under the chronicle title "Get the bed bench back in the classroom". Even though history is some years old, it emphasizes something that we all know, that the human intellect must be measured along several dimensions. Things are connected, hats and hands, and both must be stimulated. The school must facilitate this. Berntsen further asks in his post, ‘How will a boy or girl find out if he or she has facilities to become a good craftsman today?’ and he answers, ‘They hardly find it out in school.’ That’s a very serious answer. Every year we get the NHO competence survey, and in recent years the barometer has shown that we need a great deal of professional competence. As a result of the debate on the professional field in the previous case, we have to work to do even better in higher education. It's about getting more people to complete and pass. It's about early efforts to make sure our kids learn to read, write and calculate. It's about transitions, but it's also about the facility at school – what skills we stimulate through high school and high school. That's why I'm glad that the red-green government reintroduced the electoral subjects in high school. That is why I am pleased that the red-green government also introduced the labour market experiment as an electoral profession in high school. The profession shall be linked to the tasks of the vocational training programmes in upper secondary education and shall adapt them to the level of the youth. The labour market has two main areas: the development of products and services, the development of professional ethics and the working environment. The labour market has a practical approach to knowledge. The subject of work prepares the students and gives them a taste and insight into vocational education and gives all students an insight into the working life to which they are going. The labour market experiment has been well received out there. Municipalities, teachers, parents and students boast of the subject. The search has been high and the interest of the participating municipalities has been high. NOVA’s evaluation shows that the main reason why the students so strongly end up in the labour market is the working methods. The profession is experienced by most as a practical subject, where they can work with different tasks, and where they can use their hands and body to a greater extent than in other subjects. It shows a need – it shows a sense of urgency to learn this way. Of course, the labour market has some challenges, as the Committee has also pointed out. They are particularly related to assessment, but it is also about being able to recruit more widely. We have to keep working on that. However, the evaluation and experience so far show that the subject definitely has its place in school and shows a solid uprising about a subject that has a slightly different device. Experience shows that the subject itself has a value, and that if it is done correctly, the subject can play a role in filling future competences. In view of this, the Workers' Party will provide all students with the opportunity to choose the profession of employment and will therefore support the Central Party's proposal for a representative. I am promoting with this the proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e729	The representative of Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e732	All students are different, and everyone experiences the school in different ways. Some people enjoy theories, some have facilities and interest in languages, some have facilities and interest in real science, and some have facilities and interest in a more practical way. No matter what subjects you are interested in, it is important that the school provides all students with basic knowledge and skills in the basic subjects. Reading and writing really, being able to read basic mathematics and being able to read, understand and express yourself in English are the skills necessary to be able to work well in today's society and to be active in social life and working life in a good way. At the same time, many people experience school as a very heavy theory. If you're struggling with the theory, if you're struggling with your language skills, your high school can be very challenging. Because high school is so theory-intensive, many people have been calling for more practical orientation over many years, or at least have a more practical offer for those students who want it and need it. It is important that all students experience mastery in school everyday life and get positive experiences with school subjects. It is a major challenge for many professionally motivated and practically motivated students to experience schooling as a burden, with a lot of effort, many defeats and little mastery. If you may find it difficult enough to acquire the necessary basic skills in Norwegian, math and English, it is a tough job to start with the second foreign language. For these students, linguistic immersion in Norwegian or English is probably not a very good alternative either. But work experience can be a good alternative. The profession of work can help students both to gain mastery, to gain valuable experience and to regain sparks and to increase motivation for further education. NOVA’s evaluation also shows that both students and teachers are well satisfied with the subject. Teachers believe that the motivation of students in other schools has improved and that the subject has given students greater insight into the choice of higher education. It is therefore great that the government – and an overall committee – wants to make the labour market a permanent offer in the youth electoral field from the autumn of 2015. The Christian People's Party will also support the proposal to make this a mandatory offer. But it's not just the workplace that can be a good alternative. There may also be other electoral subjects. Because there are different things that motivate us, and there are different things that give us the mastery feeling that is so crucial to having positive experiences with the school. Therefore, I believe that students should have the opportunity to choose any elective subject as a substitute for the second foreign language or linguistic depression at the youth level. Then students will have greater freedom of choice and better opportunity to create a school day that matches their own interests and motivation. I think it will help more people get good school experiences, more people get good masters' experiences, and more people get motivation to go on high school. I therefore believe that 2nd foreign languages and linguistic immersion in Norwegian, Sami and English should be converted into an electoral subject at the school's youth level, and that students should be able to choose between these subjects and other elective subjects, whether they are a trade or something else, at their own discretion. This will mean that the number of compulsory hours will have to be reduced and that the number of hours of choice will have to be increased accordingly. In order for everyone to continue to have the option of choosing a second foreign language or linguistic deepening, these subjects must be compulsory selection courses at all schools with upper secondary education. I believe that the government should work out such a solution, and include this proposal from the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e751	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e754	Trials in the labour market, as is well known, started at the youth stage in the autumn of 2009. A subsequent evaluation has been carried out by NOVA. The trade is very much like both students and teachers. At the same time, the evaluation shows that students express that the subject of work has had nothing to say about their school motivation. The teachers, on their side, believe that the motivation of students in other schools has improved, and that the subject has given students greater insight into the choice of higher education. The right therefore supports the fact that the government will now make the subject a permanent offer in the youth electoral phase from autumn 2015. This shows that government parties recognise the potential, opportunities and professional development of the subject. At the same time, we are concerned that the individual school is the one that knows the situation best. This is why it is best for each school to decide which language-distillation courses the school is to offer and whether it will also offer the labour market. It is important that schools themselves have room for action in order to ensure the content and implementation of the subject. Good language skills play an important role for school students. Good language skills provide students with better results in other schools as well. They increase opportunities for further education, and students become more attractive in the workplace, as the demand for multilingual labour is increasing. Today’s education offer means that students who are not sufficiently motivated or lacking sufficient skills to take a second foreign language can choose Norwegian or English depression instead. Soon, students will be able to choose a second foreign language in mathematics or work where this is offered. This gives students freedom of choice. There is also freedom of choice. If a student wants to go to specialisation and does not have a second foreign language from high school, the student has to choose the language that he did not have in high school, rather than other upper secondary school programmes — that is. one additional year with language, giving the corresponding reduced hours in a programme subject. This gives the student less freedom of choice in secondary specialisation than those who have second foreign languages from high school. Testing of Norwegian, English and a second foreign language are also of great importance for the individual student, while students in secondary school must have good alternative choices to replace second foreign language. I believe this is well taken care of in today's offer. The forthcoming changes contribute to an even better situation for students. It will be important to provide more practical training in higher education, including: through practical correction of teaching subjects and local freedom to establish an electoral profession. Schools and teachers are well aware of the needs of their students and must therefore have greater freedom to make their own choice, adapted to the needs and wishes of their students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e773	First, I would like to draw attention to a minor error in the setting on page 2, the last section of the whole committee: it should not be the whole committee. The Centre Party, the Working Party and the SV do not join the last paragraph. I am pleased with all the good reviews of the profession, and something else had been mildly said a little surprising, since the evaluation of the subject has given a clear feedback that this subject is very good. But I am all the more disappointed with the proposal for a majority decision. I am also disappointed that the Left chooses to restrict freedom of choice for students. I'm also surprised at the reason in the settings, that students need 2nd foreign languages to go study-specializing is used as an argument to let the schools decide whether to provide employment. In addition to, or as a substitute for, immersion in Norwegian and English, there is nothing at all on which to apply study-specific requirements. I think this just shows that the majority has not understood what the profession is or what the subject is going to contribute to. So it has to be a subject you take in order to, for example, may prepare for the professional subjects. The same majority, speaking with concern for the professional professions, show little understanding of measures that can help to arouse the interest in the profession and help students to be prepared for the subjects when they come to higher education. It's a shame, and I hope the majority actually turn around and find out right now that it must be up to the students and not the school to choose whether to have a job or one. I get upset when I read the argument as to why the majority goes against the proposal of the Central Party. I'm actually being provoked by what I once again experience as a lack of understanding for an important student group, and I think I'm glad I've grown up with people around me who have knowledge other than just the academic. I'm glad I've been a teacher for 13 years and met all kinds of kids with all kinds of skills. I am sorry on their behalf that the majority, who decide the rules, still do not trust that high school students choose what they feel best for them – knowledge and skills for a professional direction, or the second foreign language for an academic direction. I think this case once again, in a very illustrative way, shows that the majority who sit in this room don't understand that the students we make the rules for are very different. It is a collusion of arguments about the electoral profession and the needs of the labour market, etc. The center party is not just concerned with talking about the professions, we're busy doing something. We made a number of proposals together with our partners in Meldning. St. 20 for 2012–2013, which we have just talked about. We also made a number of proposals in the first report on primary education. We said we would introduce the labour market when the evaluation was completed. So we are promoting proposals that we believe are affordable to implement for the government, but it seems that it is immaterial whether the proposals are reasonable or not. It's actually not me or the Center Party, but it's the potential of students we're throwing wrecks at. Everyone says that the profession of employment is good, everyone says it increases the motivation. The government always refers to "research shows". Here the evaluation shows that the subject works positively. Then the government answers by saying that yes, it seems positive, but it must be up to the schools to decide what students should choose, not the students. I don't get it. Is the government afraid there should be a demand to spend money on practical organization for a subject? Or is the government afraid that the subject does not provide good enough learning? I don't know. Finally, I want to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I'm reading it in a positive direction. We in the Center Party think we need to have more flexibility in high school, not less, but we think the comment is a little clumsy, and I don't quite understand what the Christian People's Party really wants, and how the device should be. The centre party will nevertheless vote in favour of an investigation, because we have programmed more flexibility, but we cannot support the review in the case. Today's electoral profession is both the second foreign language, the deepening of Norwegian, English, Sami, the 14 different subjects introduced by the red-green government, and the work of the schools that choose to offer it. How it is to be structured, whether you choose a language and a different choice or no language, but only other electives, we want to know, but right now we want attention to be paid to the provision of employment in all upper secondary schools, so that those who are also going to take a professional course are best prepared for their future school choices. We're not doing that today. I'm disappointed, sailor if I find that this is the way it is when you don't sit in position, but I'm also shaken by what I think is a pointless argument in the position from the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e801	It's not like people can either do one thing or the other. It's not like you're either theoretically constructed and theoretically strong, or you're practically constructed and practically strong. It's a good idea to be both. Nor do you have interests that go in a theoretical direction, or you have interests that go in a practical direction. And here it's going to be possible to have interests that go in both directions. And if you choose to go in a theoretical direction – if you, for example: If you want to become a civil engineer, you do not have the pleasure or benefit of practical subjects in high school. I think it's the opposite, that practical subjects in school are important to promote creativity, to promote innovation, which is needed in all disciplines – not just in the practical subjects. So I think these debates can sometimes be a little bit like that either – or, when it's really both – and. So when you go to high school, there's someone who knows what they're going to be, but there's also a lot of people who don't know what they're going to be when they go to high school. Some people are fully aware of what they're good at, what their abilities are, and what they like to do, but there are also quite a number of people who aren't quite sure. Because it's not easy to know, when you go to high school, what you have skills within, what you're best at, and what you like best. It takes some time to figure out what you really want to do with the rest of your life, and I think that should be part of this debate; I think that should be the starting point when we discuss electoral matters. I'm concerned that we need to focus on several things in high school, because one of the important things about primary school is that everyone needs to learn a little bit about different things – and that you need to figure out what you like, what you like, and what you want to do more about. As many people here have said, the profession of work is a very good offer. It's practical: you get to try, you get an insight into how the work force is in the different fields, and it gives you a connection between school and business, which I think is very positive. I've been visiting schools that tell them that they have very positive experiences with it, that students experience a different day at school, that they experience something that's more practical – not just being at school, but being a little more out there and seeing what happens, see what's going on. And I think it's good that it's a majority, that everyone agrees that this is something we're going to continue with, and that this is an important offer. This is the case in the electoral field, that we can either sit here on the Stortinget and decide what offers the individual student should have – and is entitled to – and has the right – or we can let the schools decide for themselves what offers they want to make. The left wants us to leave it up to the municipalities to decide which choices to offer. It's not because we want them not to offer employment, but it's because we believe that if they have a teacher who can do something that they want to do around an electoral profession, then the school should have the opportunity to make an electoral profession around what they have a special competence in at that school. I imagine teachers go around the schoolyard and try to convince the students that what they want to do is to start up, both useful, fun, exciting and developing, and that you can get an environment around the electoral fields that feels positive, and inspiring, for those students who go to that school. So for me, it's not about limiting the students' rights; it's about the schools developing the opportunities they have, and it's going to be a positive thing for the individual student. Then I agree with Anne Tingelstad Wøien that this case may be a little difficult to get involved, because it is a small conspiracy – of the occupational and linguistic sciences and one with the other. So I just want to make a few brief comments about the language field in the end: we live in a globalized world. Language science is important, it's important for business, and it's also an ability, or something you like, that you have to figure out, and that you have to have the opportunity to develop in school. We have a lot of focus on math, we have a lot of focus on real science; I also think it's important to keep the language tab high, because this is also something that we're going to teach our students to like, so that those who have skills and want to go that way are going to evolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e819	As I understand the Committee's comments, it is said that the Committee supports the fact that the government will now make the subject a permanent offer in the youth electoral phase from the autumn of 2015. It is also said that it is positive that each school is best placed to decide which language-based education the school is to offer, and whether it should also offer the profession of work. I see that the debate is about someone going to go further, so you are positive that this is no longer an experimental mechanism. Some will go further and therefore promote proposals to make it a mandatory offer at youth level. I have to admit that I am a little uncertain about how what in my papers is committee comments, is related to the proposals, but that is how I perceive the debate. I think it is good that many schools have chosen to give this offer to their students, and I believe that the main argument for not making the subject compulsory is that the school should have a room for action. I also believe that this is a professional offer that becomes best possible if it is a local initiative, if you work well with the subject locally, create a professional environment and have the teaching enthusiasm that is needed. The provision of courses in line with the needs of students and could take account of local circumstances, such as: The community around or the student composition at school, I think the school itself is the closest to evaluating and deciding. I believe this is why the subject has become popular and in many ways has been successful where you have chosen to offer it. There have been some things in the evaluation of the work subject that I think we need to address. Now that the curriculum is no longer a experimental curriculum, I think more schools are going to offer the subject to their students. At the same time, one of the things that came out in the evaluation was that many students liked the subject because it was a breathing hole. It is good that you have some breathing holes in a busy everyday life, but it is very important for me to stress that this subject is, in line with other subjects, a subject where you are going to have high ambitions for the students, where it is to be set, and where it is going to be difficult to get a good character in the same way as in language or other subjects at school. But the strength of the profession is that there can be an interest in the professional professions of more people, which can lead to a stronger choice of the students who may have intended to choose a profession. Employment also offers opportunities for good cooperation between school and working life, and I would like to reiterate in the context of what I have said earlier that all measures that contribute to bringing the labour market closer to school and school are basically positive to me. It can trigger exposure to conduct your own business. Entrepreneurship is high on the agenda in many countries. The profession of work is well suited to show what it means to create a basis for life in one's own enterprise. The final report from NOVA also shows that more than eight out of ten students enjoy the subject. Equally many think that what they learn is useful, and that the teachers are good at teaching. It shows that the profession of work is popular and that it responds well to a desire of many students about a school that is relevant, motivating and varied. The revised curriculum that comes focuses on adjusting the objectives of competence in order to facilitate the setting of assessment criteria. I repeat that achieving good grades in this subject should be as demanding as getting good grades in a foreign language. It is good if a subject is perceived as a breathing hole in school everyday life, but it must also be a subject with high ambitions and high demands. The grades are also weighted equally on the diploma. It is not an easy-to-find solution – and should not be an easy-to-find solution – to take this subject for a better characterization. Finally, a few general comments on a few points raised in the Committee's position: foreign languages are often referred to as a theoretical subject, and I would like to stress that the curriculum now highlights that it is no longer so that we have purely theoretical or purely practical subjects. All subjects should include both practice and theory, in particular the linguistic disciplines where it is emphasised that this is a field of communication where, through a lot of practice, one should speak — perhaps also write — and use the language through conversation should receive training. I also want to make some of the difference between the choices and the choices that students can make between language and work. The choices that came a few years ago, they're multidisciplinary, and they're built differently from the second foreign language and profession. It is this interdisciplinary approach that gives the electoral professions a different function that can be motivating and encouraging in a different way, but that also needs to be evaluated now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e844	We all agree that it is important that all students get basic knowledge and skills in the basic subjects, but now it is that some people think the language subjects are very heavy and difficult. For a student who has had a hard time learning to read and write properly, which is very important that everyone succeeds, it may seem like a little hopeless task to start chewing German verbs and prepositions. This with verbs and prepositions can be difficult enough in Norwegian. I have a great deal of agreement that the profession of work can be a good alternative for these students, but not everyone is given this opportunity, and the option today for those who do not have that opportunity is linguistic depression in Norwegian, Sami or English. Does the Council of State think this is a good and appropriate alternative for students who are struggling with the very language disciplines and who experience a slightly motivating day of school life as a result of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e851	What I think we can establish is that the reports and evaluations we have of the diving options in Norwegian, Sami and English do not indicate that the offer is good enough, and that it is also here, in many areas of school, that there is a gap. The father is, of course, that some places can't be real immersion alternatives, but classes some students who may be struggling with language skills, choose to, and thus the level and ambitions are not high enough. At the same time, like the representative, Mr Nybø, I would like to stress that the position and place of foreign languages in the Norwegian school is absolutely crucial. Nor is it that learning better English or choosing 2. Foreign languages are directly linked to theoretical subjects, rather on the contrary – these are practical subjects. A good example is if you are going into the service industry and working in places where there are tourists.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e858	First, let me make a little comment. I understood that the Council of State was eagerly engaged in a conversation with the Christian People's Party as I clarified exactly the section to which he referred in the setting that we did not put ourselves behind. The representative, Nybø, was concerned that if you want to become a civil engineer, you can go in a practical direction. Someone knows what they're going to be, and someone doesn't know what they're going to be. Those who know that they want to go study-specific should choose the second foreign language, I think we all agree on that. But those who don't want to or don't know if they want to go special, they think we – we decide on Stortinget – should have depression in either Norwegian or English. We say that the school should make this choice, that it is important for them to choose whether to offer English depression, Norwegian depression or the labour market. I don't fully understand the logic, and I would like to ask the Council of State why he believes it is more important to instruct schools to offer depression in Norwegian and English than depression in a labour trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e865	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative did not complain that I was in conversation with the Christian People's Party, because it gives me an opportunity to complain – not that I was in conversation with the Christian People's Party representative, but that I did not give the representative's posts the attention that it certainly deserved. I believe that if we are going to take a step further in the field of employment, we are totally dependent on it being anchored in good settings locally in each school. Therefore, I believe that taking a step now and saying that it should be mandatory, simply to take a step too far. At the same time, we can now build on good experience through the experiment. Many schools have done this, and many schools are also interested in looking at the experience of building up this subject in themselves, in their own school. So I want to add a general point. I am in favour of schools having relatively great freedom to design their subjects. Choice is another question, but in this context it is also relevant that we now evaluate the choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e874	We should have had an explanation, I think, when it comes to what we're discussing when we're discussing electoral matters. It is 14 electoral subjects, we have linguistic choice, 2nd foreign language and depression in Norwegian and English. In addition, there are people who have been involved in the subject of education selection here. So we have a lot of opportunities in high school today. But I would like to ask the question again: does the Council of State think that it will increase the implementation of the profession to offer those who want to go professionally, deepening in Norwegian and English in preference to the occupation of employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e881	If the immersion options work well enough, they can also contribute to better implementation of secondary schools. It is simply for this reason that one of the major drivers of apostasy, one of the major reasons why many fall away, especially from some vocational study programmes, is that they do not come well enough rusted out of primary school. Now we have just had a debate where everyone agrees that we need to have more practical theory. We need to be more concerned about linking vocational education and training more closely to the labour market. But we never get a situation again where the professions have no theoretical content. What we know is that basic knowledge in e.g. Norwegian and English are important. Nor do I have any problem saying that when we do this – not as an experimental scheme, as it has been, but as a permanent system of our own curricula, I would strongly encourage schools to use the labour market, because I think it can be very useful and very good for a lot of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e888	It is a step in the right direction that the next year's occupation becomes what can be called a fixed elective, but not mandatory, to offer. But I think it's a pity that not all students get the opportunity to choose the subject. The choice of schools or school owners means that students and parents are not the ones to choose. I am trying to find a more general question: Does the government have other, new, concrete measures on the block that ensure that all high school students, regardless of their choice in and on their own, are given more practical incentives, and that gives better opportunity to test whether they can be, for example. Good craftsmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e895	The most important thing we can do as politicians is not always to launch new measures, but it may be to build on good measures that are already there. We had a debate about the practical-esthetic subjects in this room not long ago. The most important thing we have for introducing the students to the basic skills they're going to have, even in subjects that require you to have wise hands, as some people put it here, are the mandatory subjects that we have in school. When it comes to having a more practical teaching, more varied teaching, using practical learning methods also in the subjects that are sometimes referred to as theoretical, we still have a great deal of effort. At least Kristin Halvorsen admirably started the youth initiative, and that was good. It intends primarily to increase basic skills, but also to have more varied and practical forms of learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e904	This means that the Council of State says that he has no new, concrete measures on the block. The Council of State frameworks measures which are in progress and which are in no way specifically linked to practical skills or to raising the opportunities for students to test early on whether they become a good joiner. Is it true that the government has no new concrete measures on the block to raise practical skills and to make people choose a professional course?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e911	That's not true. We're here and we're just discussing a measure that the government has decided to take. What was a trial scheme, which was introduced as a trial scheme by the Red-Green Government, we have decided not to be an experiment – it should be a permanent scheme, a permanent offer. The disagreement is not whether the labour market has a place in Norwegian school — it has the highest degree. The disagreement is whether to require all schools to have the subject. There is the fact that the majority of the parties believe that schools must have a certain local space for action, that taking the initiative locally and building strong professional environments and wanting to give priority to it will be the best job. I would like to repeat my call to the schools that I believe this in many places can be a very good offer and a very useful offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e921	That's a lot of times we hear a lot of words, and this is one of the occasions. There is a consensus here that the experience is good and that the offer is popular. One agrees that one should have guidance and education and curricula for the teachers needed here, and then he comes back to having a certain room for action in the municipalities. That's what the argument is. In many other areas, there is no room for action. But here – to what has only positive elements, it is said by the Council of State that there should be room for action. Is it simply because this is less important? That's the impression I'm left with. These are less important subjects. That's something that's given down to give priority to other things. Say it as it is!
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e928	It would surprise me if the argument about local self-government both for the municipality and for the school is unknown to a representative from the Central Party. On the contrary, the Centre Party tends to be the party that argues in most contexts against having too strong central bonds, that it is a value to have a local government, that decisions are made locally. In this case, we believe that we should bind the municipalities or say that everyone should have the subject as a mandatory offer. The majority think we should have it as a fixed part of the school, a choice you can make, but leave the decision local. The central party would have to disagree, but it's going to draw attention or distract the centre party from using the argument of local self-government, it surprises me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e933	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e938	My colleague Anne Tingelstad Wøien has described the proposal and the Central Party's argument well and forcefully. It shows that this is important for the Center Party. When speaking from the Council of State about the central party being for the municipal maritime administration, and the municipal maritime administration being able to lead to the educational system being different from local authorities in such an essential subject, the Council of State has no empirical opinion on such a point of view. The centre party stands at the degrees guarded around what is the nation state, a common formation within the nation state, a common education, so that we get people who have a common reference, and a common opportunity to fulfil the tasks that the country needs. It's very special that the government here uses it as an argument. But what's at the heart of the matter is that the government's government is the type of subject that we're talking about here, less focused than other subjects. That's what's at the bottom. It is one of the major errors that is being made today in Norwegian education and working life, that there is not an equivalent attitude to all the subjects that a country needs. Land needs an incredible number of subjects, an incredible number of experiences, and anyone who has screwed and built and washed knows that all things have their secrets, and needs their tradesmen. You'll learn that when you've looted a little bit. What we're seeing here today is that there's going to be this kind of attention around grades. I would like to see the Council of State now soon be able to place more emphasis on character – on developing people with character, developing education, developing the authoritative human being who takes responsibility, thinking seas – and that one has respect for the different subjects. The Arab Norway is one of our great advantages. What's evolving is a Difference Norway. As many from the Workers' Party have been involved, one has to see education, work and business in the context, and that is what the Centre Party is supposed to be the leading players in. If one does not stop the development that is now taking place in the labour market with increasing differences, it will be very difficult to get young people to train in the necessary subjects, whether it be cleaning, transport, bricklayers, farmers, fishermen or care workers. This is a fundamental point of view. I'm not so surprised that the government is going against it, and I have no naive belief that there's going to be any big change in this, because it has to be a popular mobilization to about contexts and consciousness in order to bring about a change. It's hardly going to happen in this period, but maybe after the next choice, where the problems get even bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e947	It is of such interest in itself that this debate seems to be concluded by two representatives of the Labour and Social Committee. But it's not random, because there's an important connection between this matter we're discussing now, and the previous one: how do you increase the status of a professional and get more people to choose a profession? I think it is positive that an overall committee is in favour of working life as an electoral profession in high school. But I don't think it's entirely positive that the majority believes that this subject should not be compulsory in all schools, because then one out sends a negative signal that this is really just a substitute for those students who aren't entirely involved, so it's kind of not so important if it's in all schools or not. I think that's a bad signal, because it's needed in all schools. I have a son who, in a month's time, is a graduate lecturer in English and social sciences. He has got a job – his first job – in a professional profession and is very happy about it. He was also a professional in the practice of his education and, in addition, has worked in high school all the time while he was in education. He has made some reflections and experiences that he has shared with me on the matter we are dealing with now, and his experience is that in high school there are many who already know what qualities and qualities they have, and that it is vocational training they want to invest in. Then it is important that the students experience high school as meaningful, as a good motivation for upper secondary education in the professional field. His second reflection is that very many of the students' choices of higher education are governed by expectations of status and high income, and that it is important to realize that this can actually be achieved through professional science. Knowledge in high school is important – knowledge of the workplace. When we get as far as professional life, it is personal skills and skills in the profession that are important. But today, the theory subjects in high school are a disadvantage for those students who want to take a professional course, because the theory subjects in high school count so much when you're going to college that these students are already losing their way into it when it comes to getting into it a desire in a professional field. Work as an electoral profession will strengthen the ability of these students to receive the training they want. In the end, I think this debate shows that we need to work a little bit with attitudes, that compulsory job offers not only provide justice for all high school students, but can also help to make the individual classroom more competent.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e960	I take the floor to comment specifically on the submissions of the two representatives of the Central Party. I have to say it surprises me to hear the way the matter is presented, when it is a unanimous decision that goes in order for it to be possible to have this as an electoral profession in school. What Lundtigen mentions in his article is simply talking down the professional subjects, to those degrees. Now we've just had a debate where we've spent two hours discussing the professional subjects, and then this debate is just about talking down the professional subjects. I find that both sad and sad, because it deserves neither this case nor the previous case. And then to Tingelstad Wøien's posts, where she was so terribly disappointed by the reasons of the majority: I think that's not at all any reason to be. The main reason for this is simply that it is the individual school that will decide which choices to offer to its students. That's what the majority says. Usually the centre party is very concerned with local management, but not in this case. In this case, it turns out that local government doesn't mean anything to the world. It also shows that the Centre Party has no confidence that teachers in Norwegian school know what is best for their own students. The party is in favour of the labour market and sees the importance of this for the students. We also see the importance and importance of giving them the opportunity to work in different professions, and of recruiting young people for the professions. With this, I hope to correct the impression that the majority is not for the professional subjects, but only for academic subjects. It's as wrong as it can be, and it shows the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e971	I just had to speak after the representative Thorsen had been up in the pulpit now – at least when one is trying to create the impression that the centre party is trying to talk down the professional subjects. One should have a fairly large eardaughter, I think, if you haven't found out that the centre party is very professional. It's actually also one of the reasons why we're promoting this proposal that's not about high school, but that's actually about high school, because we think that's where you lay the foundation for what you're going to do next. There is also a choice whether to go to a professional or not. What we are critical of – we believe that all secondary schools should offer work sciences to all their students – is that it is argued by local government. Centrally, we say we should offer a second foreign language, or we should offer depression in Norwegian and English. It shall provide a good basis for the successful completion of the profession. I think there is a major logical flaw in the fact that Norwegian and English should be a good basis for those who might want to enter the professions. And I think it's more than me who's been talking to teachers who have taught depression in Norwegian and English. It's, as one says, a relationship between theory and practice, and that one's in the school kitchen and speaks English and teaches English words and expressions, is so far all right, but one's also going to have to speak English if one's got a job. I think it's very frustrating, and I think it's strange that we use the argument that it should be local government, and that it should be up to the schools because they know their students the best. Yeah, so they know theirs. We'll tell the municipalities: you know their students the best, so you'll offer depression in Norwegian and English. It's going to be best for you when you're going to complete your secondary vocational education. We in the Center Party have tried to make visible the long line that we believe must be: early training, right from primary school – which the Christian People's Party has been engaged in. But also in high school, we know and understand that not everyone has a second foreign language, or is able to implement it. We have to offer them something else. We believe that employment, i.e. ‘mini-professional’, should be one of the offers they would be able to choose – not just depression in Norwegian and English. It's not about local control. We decide that they should have Norwegian and English, but we do not want to decide that they should have a job. That's what I'm very disappointed in on behalf of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e982	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e996	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1010	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1017	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, the Ministry of Health and the Council of State for having contributed information, and all the bodies and persons who have participated in consultations and made important contributions to shape this for the matter we are now discussing. The proposed changes to the alcohol law are a follow-up to the Report. St. 30 for 2011–2012, look at me! An overall drug policy, which was addressed during the previous ageing period. During the examination of this matter, a unanimous health and care committee concluded on the preparation of national norms in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law. Studies show that municipalities do not take into account the potential of the alcohol law. Although the law is repeatedly violated, it does not necessarily involve withdrawal of appropriations. Failure to respond to infringements results in a competitive advantage for unprofessional operators at the expense of their serious competitors. It is therefore important to stress that the enforcement of the alcohol law is a common objective for this increase. But it's a challenge that municipalities practice today's rules differently, and that there's also a very different perception of withdrawal cases. The aim of the changes is to improve the enforcement of the alcohol law while at the same time creating greater equality, predictability and legal certainty for each authorisation holder, irrespective of the municipality in which they operate. I want to praise several municipalities that have developed projects to limit problems with the donation of alcohol, for example. Max in Eastfold, Salutt in Oslo and Responsible alcohol serving in Kristiansand. I've met several of these actors, and it's impressive what they've achieved from results through their way of meeting the outdoor industry. I am concerned that these projects should not be prevented from further functioning, but that they should exist for the benefit of the industry itself and for the safety of guests in the face of nightlife and society for the rest. Let me be quite clear: these projects are wanted, they are appropriate, and they should be able to continue even after the introduction of standard rules for the donation of alcohol. It is gratifying that we have been in agreement in the Committee on the importance of the introduction of norms. This clarifies the responsibility of the municipalities for responding to violations of the conditions of authorisation and will ensure equal treatment both within each municipality and between municipalities as well as better predictability of the points of entry. Although there are some disagreements in the committee as well, about the degree of criminal reactions, the Progress Party is pleased that the Storting will today adopt the changes. For us, it is important that the penalties imposed as a result of an infringement of the alcohol law, i.e. the tips given and the possible withdrawal of the authorization, should be proportionate to the offence committed. At the same time, it is important that we do not deprive people of their livelihoods for an unreasonable period of time, for example. as a result of a single employee breaking the alcohol law, e.g. as a result of being deceived by the use of false identification. I am therefore a little surprised by the Christian People's Party's proposal to deprive drivers in this industry of the nutritional basis for up to three months in the first infringement of the provision on the donation of alcohol to minors. Not enough that the Christian People's Party will take from an out-of-life enterprise the nutritional basis for up to 90 days, in addition, the party wants these gift points to be fined as well. I am glad that this proposal does not get a majority. We cannot household candy with Norwegian jobs in a competitive industry. I do not see any other industry that is exposed to the same risk of losing its nutritional basis because a single employee makes one misassessment. The government has listened to professional advice. The government has listened to the industry. Against this background, there has been an increase in the number of dots resulting in the withdrawal of the grant from eight to twelve, from the consultation round to the legislative proposal, as the majority of the committee supports. The majority believe that the proposal for eight dots for the first time for sale and donation to minors shows that this is one of the most serious offences that can be committed against the alcohol law. The majority believe that the following would be better equipped to carry out proper checks and impose appropriate penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1040	This issue is about giving municipalities a good, and better, tool to enforce the alcohol law, so that the authorisation system can more effectively reduce problems related to alcohol use while at the same time creating greater equality, predictability and, in particular, legal certainty for individual beneficiaries, regardless of the municipality in which they operate. The Workers' Party believes that a dot allocation system with norms will lead to a significant simplification of the local authority's proceedings. In addition – and it is important for the Workers’ Party – the dot allocation system will increase the competitive advantage of the serious actors in the outdoor sector. We believe that a quick allocation system can be combined with other sectoral measures based on cross-cutting cooperation and dialogue with industry, such as: Salutt in Oslo, Maks in Eastfold and Responsible alcohol service in Kristiansand. In all municipalities, and perhaps especially in major cities, it is important that controls be carried out by persons with good competence, who are able to exercise the demanding judgment required by such supervision. Several municipalities have given good feedback on the assistance they receive from the Health Directorate, and it is important that the regulation becomes clear to all parties, so that it also becomes a good tool. The Labour Party is concerned if it is correct that less than half of the municipalities implement minimum control requirements, and we expect the Minister to follow this up in the evaluation. The Labour Party has also noted the feedback from the NHO that there are problems with the use of false identification among minors. Their experience is that there is a lack of follow-up from the police with regard to reports of falsification of documents. We expect the government to give clear signals, and here the police must take an active part in reducing both the abuse of identity and drug abuse. In contrast, where the Labour Party differs from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, the consequences of the most serious individual offences are, such as the gift of minors. The Workers' Party refers to the good experience of Trondheim and Bergen, where such infringements result in the immediate withdrawal of the grant. We believe that the level of response proposed is too strict to give the desired effect, and it is important to give clear signals as to what responsibility you have as authorisation holder. We therefore follow up the experience from Trondheim and Bergen and what was professionally recommended for this case when it was sent out to the hearing. We believe that the withdrawal limit should be reduced from twelve to eight dots, otherwise supporting the weighting of offences and the number of dots. I am promoting the proposal which the Labour Party shares with the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1055	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1058	This bill is designed to ensure equal treatment of withdrawals in the event of an infringement of the rules of the alcohol law. The aim of the changes is to improve law enforcement and to contribute to reducing problems in the nightlife sector related to alcohol use. The State Institute for Drug Research has shown that there are few municipalities that are involved in the withdrawal, in relation to the number of infringements. There are different practices and this may lead to the effective competitive advantage of unprofessional operators, as is currently the case. It is not only that the rules are practiced differently, but there is also a great deal of discretion in the interpretation of the rules. This proposal follows up the rules that came in the Announcement. St. 30 for 2011–2012, look at me! It's a whole Russian policy. The bill contains a dot allocation system where different fractures are assigned a certain number of dots. It is the municipalities that award bulwarks, and this will create a more effective follow-up and not least a simplification of the procedure. It is good that several municipalities have addressed problems related to the donation of alcohol and have developed good projects. It has also been commented on by representatives in the past, among others. the work carried out in Oslo, Max in Eastfold and Responsible Alcohol Service in Kristiansand. There are projects in which industry cooperates well with stakeholders, and more emphasis is placed on guidance and information for giftage holders. I would particularly like to highlight the Kristiansand municipality, which has achieved very good results by implementing guidance-based control in the outdoor sector. Municipalities that have these projects are very concerned that the new system should not get in the way so that they can continue with this guidance-based control. Work and the NHO Travel Life have expressed concern that it does not. However, this should now be evaluated, and it is also important that the evaluation looks at these municipalities that have projects with guidance-based controls and how this is followed up in relation to controls targeting the dot allocation system. At hearings, more input has been made about the system itself — during the vesting period, on the withdrawal of funding and on the number of dots for the various offences. There is disagreement in the committee on part of this. But we support the proposal for a two-year pay-as-you-go period. A minimum of two checks and an average of six checks are added during the period. It will then be possible to see whether there has been a positive development at the actual tipping point. We also support a minimum withdrawal response for one week. I would say that both the Central Party's proposal for a reaction level and the Christian People's Party's proposal for a three-month withdrawal by the donation of alcohol to minors in reality means that the companies will go bankrupt. This doesn't just hit the outdoors industry in big cities. That might be the smallest problem. The main problem is in tourist destinations and district municipalities. I want to point out that in the Hallingdals region there is an annual turnover of over 600 million. kr. 33 pst. of those employed are employed in the tourism industry It is a vulnerable and vulnerable industry and it is therefore right to have reactions that, when they are to be equal throughout the country, do not hit the legs of the industry. Everyone knows today that the donation of minors is forbidden. It might be good to remind the Storting that ten to fifteen pst. the donation actually takes place at the outdoors. After all, the high consumption of alcohol is in the private sphere, which poses the greatest threat to public health. The onset of alcohol by minors is rare in outdoors, but in friends. We believe eight dots are a strict response – there are four dots to a lost permit. It'll be sharper. We are glad that this law comes, not least because it will help the municipalities in the red tape project, and it will ensure equal treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1075	The Christian People's Party believes that the device with a dot system in the bill is a system that can help municipalities follow up the law's intention of restrictive alcohol policy and reduce problems and injuries associated with alcohol use. It is the large group of moderate alcohol consumption that causes the most damage, sickness and job absence in the Norwegian community. Alcohol abuse and over-exploitation have high costs for individuals, society and working life. In its public health report, the government has concluded on the World Health Organisation’s objective of reducing the level of harmful alcohol use by 10 pst. by 2025. The puncture system can be a small piece of this system – to reduce and prevent, and, in particular, to have a public health effect. It is important that the intention of the law on restrictive alcohol policies is enforced. Then this dot system becomes very central – a system that will treat grant holders more indifferently. Studies show that municipalities today do not exploit the potential of the alcohol law. At the same time, there are quite a number of municipalities that have done a formidable job in order to have a restrictive alcohol policy. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is concerned that this new system, this amendment, must not prevent well-functioning systems from continuing. Then I hear that there are many who respond to the Christian People's Party's position in serving alcohol to minors and obviously intoxicated people. The supply of alcohol to minors and obviously intoxicated persons is widespread. We know that Juvente had a survey – just as the representative Ørmen Johnsen said. They went to shops to buy alcohol, had legal ID, and got a purchase anyway, because it was not asked for a licence. When one knows how important it is to make the debut age the highest possible to regulate later consumption and to prevent abuse, it is important and proper that this is properly enforced. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that giving minors is a gross violation. We are responding to the government's proposal, which means that some municipalities that have bitten in the sour apple and made the requirements for this more stringent are now experiencing, in practice, liberalisation. This has actually been achieved in some of the largest cities and in the largest municipalities. The Christian People's Party sincerely believes that there should be zero tolerance to give to minors. We believe that it is a great responsibility to have a gift grant. I therefore refer to proposal No. 4, which the Christian People's Party has alone, and the proposals No. 2 and 3, which Christian People's Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1090	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1093	Standard rules for the withdrawal of appropriations were requested for the treatment of the drug abuse message. See me! An overall drug policy, in 2013, where a total increase asked for national demands for local authorities to respond to violations of alcohol laws. It has been demonstrated that there are major challenges in municipalities related to the overdrafting and sale and donation of minors, that there are some considerable variations between municipalities, and that norms with a dot allocation system could contribute to greater compliance and management of alcohol laws in all municipalities. Some municipalities already have a dot allocation system in place, and there are good experiences with this. On a proposal from the Health Directorate, the Ministry of Health and Health will send a proposal for a standard rules for the withdrawal of appropriations in the event of a breach of the rules of alcohol law – so far and well. The problem is that the Right-front party government has put forward a proposal for norms for the Storting that have changed at significant points in relation to the hearing draft. In practice, it means that the largest cities, which have already used a dot allocation system, now have to liberalise enforcement in a respectable way and accept that businessmen can outstrip more and/or divert alcohol to several minors without leading to the withdrawal of appropriations as at present. By changing the important point about the number of dots to be given before a loss of funding, the response level has been significantly lower than what the Health Directorate thought was right, because the whole basis for this case is that one introduces a level of reaction that is so high that it will have consequences that one will have a follow-up to the rules. We believe that the proposed response level is too low to obtain the desired effect. A proposal from the Workers' Party on which the Centre Party is involved, which suggests that the response level for what is needed to lose a grant of token, should be set to eight dots and not twelve, as proposed by the Government. If that proposal falls – and it looks like it does – then the Centre Party will vote against the entire bill. Once again, we see that the Left is creating multiples for the government's alcohol liberal proposals. The list has begun to grow in length. A grant should be easy to lose, it is called, and that has been a good advice to follow out in the municipalities. Now, the Storting overrules the largest city councils and obliges municipal politicians to make it harder to lose the grant – and even if it is about the most serious violations of alcohol laws, such as the gift of excessive intoxication to minors. The centre party believes that donations to minors and donations to over-exploited people should lead to the withdrawal of the grant – that should be quite clear. We believe that the response level must be high enough to confirm the seriousness of the breach. We also propose some minor changes to the arrangements on the proposal, including: that the inclusion should be set to two weeks and not one week, and some other minor changes in the option. With this, I make my proposals to the Centre, and as I said, if the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre falls, the Centre Party will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1113	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1117	The issue we are discussing today has its background in a unanimous growth, and it is a tribute to the government, which provides a system that is becoming more consistent across the country. With regard to the dot system and the response rates on it, the left sees it as important now that this gets the widest possible solution in all municipalities, and that we get the most uniform start-up possible. There has been no target for us to make the legislation as tight as possible in a start-up phase. For some municipalities, this is a pretty big task to start with, for other municipalities, it is not a full task. And then there are a few, big municipalities that are running some trials. For the Left, it has been important not to create a triple bureaucracy to regulate donations and withdrawals. This is a system that must be applied to the municipalities in the next few years. The Kjersti Toppe of the Centre Party once again says that this too is a liberalisation of alcohol legislation. On the contrary, it's actually establishing a new regime, and it's hard to understand what's justifying that claim. On repeated occasions, the Centre Party will frame a long list. But when you look at the last eight years and what really created increased turnover, for example. tax-free sales, it is the large-scale establishment on the Gardermo, for which the red-green government stood. It's easy to think of something when you're in opposition, and then you obviously don't always have that much influence when you're in position. The left supports the proposal, as presented by the government. There is a flexible regulatory framework that can be tightened up in the course of the process if the need arises. It is good with both a dot and a knitting system that it is flexible, and where different municipalities may have different needs in the next few years. The most important thing is that we have now established a system for which a total expansion has been achieved, and we are looking forward to the introduction of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1130	It's a pleasure that we get this kind of national legislation in place, and I want to pay tribute to the government to follow up on what the Storting has previously joined. I believe that through a national regulatory framework of this kind, we can have a more effective response to the policy of making donations, a more coherent approach, and hopefully also manage to defeat those in the unprofessional sector, in a better way than many municipalities are able to do now. However, SV has been involved in promoting some proposals that we believe would make this case better suited to achieving just that. Firstly, we believe that the criteria for the withdrawal of appropriations are too cautious in the government's proposal. That is why we will support the proposal that there should be eight and not twelve dots that will lead to the withdrawal of the grant, and also the proposal to increase the efficiency time, so that there is actually a greater real possibility of interference in the event of a breach of the rules. We're probably also afraid that with the changes the government has made, there will in practice be many offenses that never have any consequences. I remember from my time in local politics that it was a frequently repeated mantra from the right that gift granting should be easy to get and easy to lose. I think, as far as this is a good principle, but then we have to have the easy bit to lose, too, and I think that the Storting should tighten something to make sure that it is actually easy to lose the grant if one violates the rules we agree to apply. On one point, SV has separated teams from all the other parties, and that is that we want to heighten the importance of repeated discrimination in this legislation. We think it should trigger not just two dots, as the government has suggested, but eight dots. I'd like to explain. Firstly, I think it is positive that the government has ensured that discrimination is part of this legislation, and it does not have to be a matter of course, because we also see that it is not at the heart of the alcohol law. But it's still a core area for us politicians, because it's an important social issue. It is important not to underestimate the importance of the sense of rejection that young people born and raised here in the country get when they are rejected at the door of the outdoors only because of their skin color or because of their disability. Just because we think it is so important, and because there are so few opportunities to tackle that kind of discrimination, we think we should use this opportunity to an even greater extent. We must remember that there are repeated cases of discrimination that we are talking about, which will trigger peak pressures. It may be difficult to document, and when, in addition, only two dots are attached, I fear that in practice there will be little consequence. Then I'm also a little worried about the signal effect of weighing that kind of offense so much easier than other things related to donation, which of course are in the core area of the alcohol law, but which in general may be less serious. That is why we believe that the threshold for tackling discrimination in this proposal is too high, and we suggest that repeated discrimination should be met in response to eight points. It would be an effective and very important step for the protection of discrimination in Norway. With that, I will deal with the proposal SV has put forward in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1147	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1150	I refer to a unanimous attitude to the 2012 drug notification, in which the Committee supported the preparation of national requirements for the response of municipalities to infringements of the alcohol law. The government has followed up and prepared a proposal for a new provision in the Alcohol Act. It lays down new rules on the standard rules for the withdrawal of authorization in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law. The amendment shall clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities for responding to infringements of the conditions of authorisation and for ensuring equal treatment of authorisation holders. I am pleased that the vote shows that the unanimity which was in 2012 has continued in the main lines of the proposal. We are proposing to introduce a dot allocation system where different breaks are assigned a certain number of dots, and where a given number of dots in two years will lead to withdrawal of funding for at least one week. A national mandatory spot allocation system will result in more effective follow-up of breaches of the rules and simplification of the administrative procedures. Clear national rules will ensure non-discrimination for the constituencies and lead to a level playing field for authorisation holders across local borders. This will provide good framework conditions for serious actors. We know that the municipalities react differently to serving places in the event of a breach of the alcohol law. It is serious when a service provider violates the alcohol law, and national requirements will clarify the responsibility of municipalities to respond. The amendment allows for the provision of provisions introducing a dot allocation system in the event of a breach of the rules of the alcohol law. In the event of an infringement of the rules laid down in the alcohol regulation and the alcohol law, a certain number of dots will be allocated to the holder of the authorization. When twelve dots are earned during a two-year period, the appropriations will be suspended for at least one week. The majority of the hearing bodies have supported the proposal for the introduction of such a standardised system. Among those who do not support the implementation of the system, we find municipalities and business operators who have already taken the initiative to limit problems that arise in particular in connection with the donation of alcohol. They indicate that they have launched projects where cooperation and dialogue between industry, police and licensing authorities are at the heart of their work. These actors express concerns as to whether the introduction of a standardised system will make it possible to continue the work undertaken. I welcome measures in which municipalities cooperate with the police and industry to reduce problems related to the supply of alcohol. Dialogue-based cooperation between the actors involved is necessary in order to provide a good basis for responsible alcohol-serving and safe nightlife. I believe, however, that there is no contradiction between guidance and dialogue on the one hand, and clear responses to non-compliance on the other. In addition to the checks carried out under the provisions of the Alcohol Code, municipalities are free to carry out calls and indicative visits at the points of arrival. In such cases, the spot allocation system will not apply. The hearing bodies have had different perceptions of how many dots different fractures are to be allocated and how long the performance should be. I think we've put ourselves on a reasonable level. The proposal takes account of the need to ensure responsible alcohol management and the consideration of operators and industry staff. The level and recovery period will be laid down in the alcohol regulation. Changes have already been made to the alcohol regulation that oblige inspectors to take the knowledge test in alcohol and that all vigilance checks must be carried out with two inspectors. Overall, I believe these changes will increase the level of non-discrimination between the traders and clarify the municipality's responsibility for responding to infringements of the alcohol law. I would also like to make a brief comment to Mr Toppe's speech, in which it was said that the Central Party would vote against the proposal and would almost make it a liberalisation of alcohol legislation. It's not. Although one here has found a different balance between, for example: dotting than what was in the original proposal is more likely to result in the withdrawal and withdrawal of the grant of donations to non-law-enforcement actors, for example. related to the withdrawal no longer being added to periods where there is in any case little donation, as one has seen some examples from some municipalities. There is no doubt that this legislative change, and the follow-up by regulation, will involve a clearer handling of an important law towards an important industry. Trying to introduce this as a liberalisation of alcohol legislation, I therefore believe that it is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1173	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1176	One of the objectives of this change is to reduce the problems associated with alcohol use. At that time, there is a challenge for municipalities to lack knowledge of the development of drug challenges in different population groups, in relation to violence incidents, etc. It is not effective to initiate interventions when you are in the blind and do not know how action works and what is the main challenge. So the question for the Minister of Health is whether he will continue to work to develop better indicators — especially those related to public health indicators — so that municipalities can see the trends and take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1181	It is the Institute for Public Health that produces public health indicators and also produces annual overviews for the municipalities that they can use in their public health work – broken down on each municipality. I am committed to strengthening drug research and drug competence in the Swedish Institute of Public Health, and that is why, in the recent revised National Budget, we are proposing to bring together the drug research environment at SIRUS with the drug research community at the Swedish Institute of Public Health. It provides a basis for more resources for drug research and links these environments of competence. It can just be used to strengthen the work done by the Institute for Public Health in this area against the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1186	I think there is a broad consensus in the Storting that drugs are an area to be prioritised, and that many of the challenges are local. When we get the clear feedback that this pervasive area lacks data that can give us the basis for knowing where to put the cancers, the question is once again: Will the Minister of Health ask the Institute of Public Health to make better public health indicators, so that municipalities can follow up the drug field?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1191	What we're going to ask the Institute of Public Health in next year, I haven't clarified yet, so that question I have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1196	In the public health report, the government has set a target of reducing the level of harmful alcohol use by 10 pst. by 2025. It's a clear goal, and it's a pretty comprehensive and difficult goal to achieve because so far, one has not managed to reduce these damage. I notice that the government has delivered several cases of alcohol to the Storting, but there is an extension of the tax-free quota and the liberalisation of the Vinmonopole's opening hours, and proposals from the Storting to cut in, like the content labelling, have been voted down. What kind of things will the State Council come to Stortinget to achieve the target of 10 pst. reduction in harmful alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1203	This case is one of the issues that is just about to ensure a better follow-up to the provisions of the Alcohol Code in the case of gift shops. Then I do not agree with the representative's presentation of the proposals that have otherwise come from the government in this area. Having a monopoly on wine is, from the viewpoint of this government, a decisive instrument in the alcohol policy that is also enshrined in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I believe that constantly modernising the wine monopoly is just one of the reasons why one still has a great deal to say about the alcohol policy. Had the wine monopoly today looked like it did 20 years ago, I'm sure we in this room had had a discussion about winding up the wine monopoly. As regards the proposal for the change made in the tax-free area, it is linked to another important public health objective, namely to reduce the use of tobacco, and the condition for the increase is that a switch is made to the tobacco quota in alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1211	I am, as I said, in favour of the fact that the Council of State has taken on discrimination as one of the factors that can trigger dot loads, but I believe that the threshold is initially too high and fears that it will have little effect. I don't expect the government to turn around in that question here and now, but what it would have been nice to get an answer to is how the government is now thinking of following developments in this system, and whether it would be relevant for the Council of State to reconsider the weighting between the different dot bases if, for example, it was. It appears that discrimination does not make it easy to say in practice for those who are charged with repeated discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1216	Formally, the Stortinget today decides the basis for the regulation. So it's the government that determines the content of the regulation and thus the dot level, among other things. But we thought it was right – since it is the first time it happens – that the regulation, the dot system and everything else were thoroughly described in the proposition, so that one got a good discussion also in Stortinget about it and signals back about this. When this is in a regulation, of course, there are always possibilities for the government that is always in place to make assessments of the weighting, based on the experience gained. But I think it's a good idea to gain experience over a certain period of time before making adjustments, and that this is a system that people trust over time. With regard to the issue of discrimination, the representative himself was in the process of balancing his intervention. This is not at the heart of the provisions of the Alcohol Code, but it is nevertheless an important social issue. I believe that when you put in place a reaction to this – which has actually not been so clear before – it will have a good effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1223	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1228	I need a clarification. The representative from the Left, Kjeseth, says that they do not want to go into norms that are as tight as possible, in a start-up phase. As I see it, that's not what this is all about – it's almost the other way around – because the big cities that currently have experience with the vowing system experience that they need to liberalize their legislation and dissolve. That's what I'm responding to. Others may argue that this is the opposite, but I believe and maintain that this is a liberalisation. I am also faced with the fact that the alcohol cases we have had in the Storting are not a liberalisation. But then we're disunity. I think increasing tax-free quotas is a liberalisation. When one increases and expands the opening hours of the Vinmonopolet, I think it is a liberalisation. When Stortinget smokes against the labelling of alcohol, I don't think it's positive. When one also argues that the wine monopoly is to take over the tax-free system, it is also a negative case to achieve the objective of alcohol law, to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol and to reduce the consumption of the population. And I can also understand that some people are reacting to the fact that the center part is squirming against the entire bill, but we're very conscious of that. We were a driver of this matter when we put in government, because it's an incredibly important tool. And the more disappointed we were when this matter came from the government, because when one changes at a significant point, and when one lowers the level of reaction and increases the limit of the number of dots, the level of reaction becomes so low that the proposal undermines the very purpose of introducing norms for the withdrawal of privileges, and it does not build up under the purpose of alcohol laws. I note that there was no willingness in the committee to negotiate this either, because one has the support of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1237	Last post from Kjersti Toppe: In the case of the big cities, several of them are inside ongoing projects similar to what we are introducing now, and they have asked that, in the last phase of it, they are not necessarily imposed a new one – and thus get three systems to deal with. I respect the fact that they are going to carry out the projects they are doing. It'll also be a win for those who are going to start, because if they're not exactly the same, then there's pretty similar tools they're using. And dialogue is one of the important tools here, and it is a new approach to implementing responses, including criminal responses. As regards alcohol consumption in Norway, what we certainly know is that the turnover of the wine monopoly is falling. And then we don't know, so far too well, if this decline is replaced by a hundred percent of the huge growth we've had on the Gardermo linked to the tax-free sales, that the red-green government made right there. We can't help but say that it's the large volume that's taken over – or at least that's grown. The second is the alcohol turnover in Sweden, the border trade. And then we still have a lot of smuggling. This is complex. What remains to be seen is whether opening hours will do something about total turnover and consumption. It remains to be seen. And it's going to be exciting, if the alcohol turnover at the Vinmonopole goes down – despite extended opening times. Then we just gave the Vinmonopole, and the customers, overall, a better service offer – and there is a slightly different debate. There are a lot of tools to discuss in the future, but I think the Central Party should at least relate to what they have helped to facilitate for themselves. What we are doing today is on the initiative of the Central Party in the last government, and then I find it strange that one does not support the introduction of such a system, a bit independent of the criminal reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1246	I just want to clarify something, because it was said from the pulpit that the Christian People's Party says «three months». We say, "up to three months". It will be differentiated according to the severity. Then I can give an explanation of why the Christian People's Party still chooses to vote for this matter: we have been unanimous in getting a dot system. Then we disagree with the number of dots, and it's because, as we've also heard from this pulpit, the cities that have their projects are going to be allowed to continue. That means that then you can actually keep the opportunity that lies in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1253	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1267	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their excellent cooperation in this matter. Today, according to the Swedish Social Security Act, popular protection grants § 5-7 benefits to cover the costs of research and treatment of psychologists who are specialists in clinical psychology and who have an agreement on operating grants with a regional health company. It is currently a condition for this right to benefits that the member is referred from either the doctor or the head of the child protection administration. The Ministry of Health and Health proposes in the proposal that referrals by psychologists should also be able to trigger reimbursement from social security. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that supports proposals for amendments to the People's Security Act on referrals by psychologists. The proposal was sent to the hearing on 5 June 2013 with a deadline of 10 September 2013. The case has thus had a foot within both the previous government and the sitting government. 28 Hearing Officers delivered their opinions on the subject-matter of the case. They were essentially positive or had no objection to the principle of having psychologists refer. The Medical Association supports the proposal on a general basis, and the Church's Bymition states that: ‘The psychologist who treats often knows the history of the disease and the current problems better than the doctor and has better general competence for mental disorders. Thus, a referral right to psychologists will not only free up time for clinical work for the permanent doctors, but also reduce the time spent by the specialist health service to obtain detailed information in the assessment work.» It is also worth mentioning that regulations based on the Swedish Health Service Act – the Outpatient Regulation – are proposed to be amended, so that referral to mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment may also include referral from a psychologist. It is an objective for us in the Health and Welfare Committee that all people with mental and drug problems are given better opportunities to take care of their own health. The main objective of the amendment is to simplify the way to specialist health services for people with mental and drug problems and to prevent duplication of work for primary health services. The proposal will also help to make it easier for children and young people to get needed help. The Committee will also take the opportunity to point out that current psychological practices appear to be too small an integral part of the other primary and specialist health services. In this respect, the right of referral for psychologists must not contribute to the further fragmentation and division of healthcare, but rather ensure that there is a more holistic service where actors work together to the benefit of the patient. In that case, closer cooperation with fixed doctors will also be a necessary prerequisite for achieving a comprehensive offer to the patient. Finally, I should like to add that the Committee unanimously also supports the other minor proposals contained in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1310	Noting that critical, inappropriate or even illegal conditions in a workplace may be a very difficult thing to do. Most of us have loyalty to the boss, to the colleagues and to the workplace – fortunately, we must be able to say. But such loyalty can also make it difficult to say when necessary. That someone says that someone's notifying, we know that we have a huge social value. International studies show that about half of illegal conditions are identified by just the notifyers. Of course, it's very difficult to tell if you have reason to fear represals. We know that so much as every four Norwegian workers think they will be met with the boss's disgust if they come with a critical view of the work situation where they work. One should be careful with zero visions, but in this case I think we should be able to say that it is always a goal to create a society of powerful citizens, where no one is afraid to stand up to authorities – nor their own boss. There are variations in how strongly workers experience their own freedom of expression. For example, we know that adding women feels like having less space to express themselves than what men do. We also know that the more one works with, the weaker the employee assesses his own freedom of expression. Especially seriously do I think we should look at a last point, that adding to the public sector experiences a more limited freedom of expression than adding to the private sector. I think this is particularly serious because it is 1) the public sector, that as elected representatives we have the most direct responsibility, and 2) because job protection is often stronger in the public sector. And yet they feel like they're adding that the outer space is weaker right here. The 2013 Annual Report of the Civilobbode also expresses concerns about developments in the public sector. In an article on research.no on 3 September last year, Birte Eriksen, who writes a doctorate on warning at the University of Bergen, states: ‘We are constantly looking at examples from the local government sector, among other things, that strong political interests could be threatened if employees were to be heard freely. It is therefore often the case that written agreements at work restrict the freedom of expression of employees. A typical example is the establishment of instructions or agreement that only the head of department may be heard in the media.’ This type of appointment is quite common. According to Fafo, 34 pst. that they have a written contract of employment with the employer, which limits the possibility of commenting on the work place to the public – this is in spite of the fact that such agreements may quickly conflict with the protection of freedom of expression in the Constitution § 100 and thus be illegal. Even if the alerts in Norway are better than what is the case in many other countries, we still have a way to go. The left has long been occupied with freedom of expression in general and the conditions of alerts in particular. We are very pleased with the opportunity to discuss this issue with the Minister of Labour and with the Storting today. We are also pleased that the non-socialist majority in the context of the management of the new work environment law was able to strengthen the conditions for alerts. In concrete terms, the Stortinget government asked the government to ensure that relevant supervision cooperates in order to improve information on the legislation on alerts, while evaluating a joint guide with information on justice and obligations. We also asked that one, in cooperation with the social partners, assess an information campaign on alerts, and that alert procedures become a mandatory requirement that should clarify minimum requirements for the content of such procedures. Even though we respect the fact that there are many things on the Council of State's table, we are still impatient. I would like to ask the State Council if he can find out about the status of this order from Stortinget, and how the government will work to strengthen the alert protection in the future. Furthermore, it is important to stress that although the law is important, culture is also crucial. Last year, the evaluation of the alert rules in the Work Environment Act came. In the report by Fafo and Arntzen de Besche, the main conclusion was that awareness-raising, changes in attitudes and follow-up in the enterprises seemed to be the most important thing to get on with the work for a good and safe climate of opinion in the workplace. Even if there are rules, they are not always followed. Yesterday, Oslo City Council was dealing with a warning case where things went completely wrong. It wasn't the routine, it wasn't the code. It was the follow-up and the practical handling. The case concerned a warning of suspicions of drug theft, in which the Sick Home House in Oslo put the alert in question, to deal with the matter – a clear violation of the guidelines in the Municipality of Oslo, of course, but also proof that there is no good guidance. One must also ensure that all leaders and intermediaries are made aware of and actually trained in how alerts can be handled — both the warning itself and its follow-up. It is important that we, as a community, call for warning and stand behind those who dare to take the tough decision that it is actually from. For this reason, it was particularly gratifying that the Fritt Ords Prize 2015 was distributed to just two notifyers – Robin Schaefer and Jan Erik Skog – for their efforts to discover critical issues in Norwegian working life. Schaefer is perhaps the one who is most familiar to the public, as he who warned of the very serious Monika saka in the Hordaland police district. Forests warn of a number of critical conditions in the groups operating public transport in the Municipality of Oslo. The jury stressed during the distribution that the two notifyers have had some support players during their work, but that they have, above all, encountered strong resistance over a longer period of time in their workplaces. As you can see, it is particularly thoughtful that we have recently read in the newspaper Police Forum that the Police Directorate has not yet congratulated Robin Schaefer on the award. We all have a responsibility to strengthen alert protection. Hopefully, they were the ones we took in connection with the adoption of a new work environment law, a step in the right direction. But we always have to be open because others may have found even better solutions than us. There are different practices from country to country and from city to city. For example, a municipality in Copenhagen has its own whistleblower scheme, which is independent of the municipal administration and political authorities, which can notify notifications. In the Netherlands there is an ‘Advice Centre’ for Notifiers, which is an independent entity providing advice and guidance to alerts who contact them. The Centre also has its own Supervisory Committee with representatives from both business, employee organisations and board of directors. The left believes that having own, independent units that can act as a centre of competence and alert watch can be a way to go. In any case, we are willing to discuss many different solutions that can ensure that alert protection in Norway is even stronger than it is today, and we look forward to righting the Council's posts and hopefully a good discussion on this issue today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1345	Let me first give tribute to the representative Rotevatn, who addresses an important issue for debate in Stortinget – a matter that should get a good discussion, and which I think we are all concerned with. At my discretion, a good warning protection must take account of two aspects. First of all, those who say about critical conditions in the workplace must feel confident that they can do so without causing negative consequences for those who are alerting. Secondly, it is also important to be exposed to unculture and crime in a workplace through good warning. We know, as the representative Rotevatn also pointed out, that it is not risk free to notify. Therefore, it is important to me that we have rules that give clear signals that we want critical conditions to be notified. The alert provision in the Labour Environment Act came into force in 2006 and a broad evaluation was carried out in 2014. In this evaluation two things were considered. First, the legal situation of alerts in Norway was looked at, and second, the actual situation of alerts in Norway was looked at. What was then examined? Indeed, the way in which alerts are carried out and the functioning of establishments was examined and the handling of alerts by relevant supervisory authorities. The representative pointed out, among other things: on a bad example of how to deal with an alert case, from the Municipality of Oslo, about the theft of drugs. It is important that such an evaluation should be carried out in a thorough manner in order to cover the actual situation. The conclusion shows, among other things: that the law works essentially according to its purpose. Norwegian workers are alerting more than in other countries, and alerts are less subject to sanctions. I think that's good. It's positive. But we should also remind ourselves that everything is not rosy. Half of the workers in Norway say they hesitate to alert, so half of the workers in Norway say in a survey that they hesitate to alert. It means, in my opinion, that there is a need for further investigations, the need to go further through the warning provisions and look at how to improve and strengthen them. I am pleased that the committee, through the work it did when it dealt with the change in the work environment law, and in the position it was given almost two months ago, also gives the government a mandate to go through several moments to improve legal certainty for alerts, to get better information and campaigns related to how it can be easier to alert. I would also like to point out some of the things that the representative Rotevatn also mentioned. Today, it is the Labour Inspectorate who has the responsibility for guidance and follow-up in relation to the Labour Environment Act. But other agencies, other public authorities, too, have to be on the road. Let's say there are warnings about serious environmental crime, serious incidents related to animal welfare or corruption. It is then important to have more interaction between the control authorities, together with the Labour Inspectorate, and to have a good and common basis and a toolbox to address those issues. The cross-sectoral or cross-sectoral way of working I think it is important to be able to strengthen — that is, better coordination. We know that, under the provisions of the Working Environment Act, this is today, among other things. a provision to protect the identity of the alert person – in Section 18-2. I think it's good. It is good that the person who alerts can feel confident that when a person goes and reports to the Labour Inspectorate, he is well-kept and safe. As I started by saying, one who alerts should feel confident that one does not get reprisals because one has notified of critical circumstances. In the work that the ministry is now doing, I think it might be useful to consider assessing whether that provision should also be transferred to other relevant legislation, given just serious, critical aspects of animal protection, corruption or environmental crime, as other bodies will be involved. How should you feel equally safe, equally protected when you take it up with the floors that you should take it up with? That's something that we're looking at in the department, and something that we'll look at in more detail. Then we're in the process of making the proposals that were adopted in Stortinget, we're in the process of investigating. I can't promise here and now in which month we'll be finished and can file a case for the Storting about it, but it's my priority. I want to do it thoroughly, but I also want to include – in order to be notified of it – a dimension for inclusion: Should we extend the protection of alerts to employees other than permanent employees in a business? You should have the same security, for example. for hired workers, that they have the same protection when notifying of critical, serious situations? There is something I also look at in the investigation work and follow-up work that Stortinget has asked the government to do, and I think it is important to also see it in such a context, when we first bring up a matter of warning. Then how fast we get back, also a little bit depending on how much we look at. But for me, it is important that we keep up the pressure, that we keep moving forward on it, and that we get a good deal delivered to the Stortinget, so that we can just follow up what is the intention of both the government and the interpellant: that we get a better and strengthened warning protection for those who point to serious and critical conditions in the working life. At a time when we also see serious crime in the workplace, it will be even more important, I think, that you have the security to notify when critical conditions are there, and that you have the public, and support devices like the Labour Inspectorate and other agencies, in your back – that your security is being safeguarded. Finding the good solutions to it is something the government is now also sitting and looking at in the same work. Once again, I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant to raise an important debate – a work-life debate, at my discretion – about the safety of Norwegian workers. When we know that half of all the workers are skeptical about going to the step of alerting and hesitating to do so, I think that's something we politicians are going to take seriously. Then we should also look at how we can improve their security and not just lend ourselves back and be satisfied that the law works well for all intents and purposes. We also need to create the necessary security to make this work in an optimal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1373	I thought there was a lot of promise in what the Council of State said, both that a completely opener is in the process of following up what the Stortinget has decided, and that one – I interpret it in that direction – works even wider than that and in many ways announces a larger case to the Stortinget. I think it's very wise, not least to look at the problems of hired labour, as the Council of State calls it. Clearly, there are some aspects of our working life that require us to take the warning challenge even more seriously than one has done before. It shall apply, inter alia, to: developments in the criminality of work. I think it's important that a non-black-pointing situation in the labour market, because most people are honest and want to follow the rules, but it's clear that we see some serious examples, especially in some industries, and it often involves hired labour. Then it's even more important to ensure a good level of protection of opinion, a good chance to say something about critical and actually dangerous. So that's what I think is promising. Then we're going to take that 64 pst. In fact, by those who have witnessed illegalities and critiques, inappropriate behaviour in the workplace. That's a good one. And half of those who say it said it helped. So it's also things to enjoy. What many people report to me, not least previous alerts that I have met, is that one of the main challenges is that employees often don't know where to turn. One thing is that they don't know the rules and they don't know what they actually have, but they don't know who they're going to ask about where to find out. Because it's clear that when you're in the middle of a situation, it's hard to know what to expect from protection if you say from that, and if it has one between your hands, it's really a warning or not. So there's a lot of demand, there's a place to turn around. Now, of course, one can turn to the Labour Inspectorate, one can turn to a worker’s organisation, or one can turn to the Petroleum Inspectorate, but perhaps that’s just one of the challenges. Governments themselves point out that there are good rules in the work environment laws. Perhaps you should consider whether any of them can also be transferred to other laws, to other parts of society. Then I ask if the Council of State will reflect a little on this fragmentation of both responsibility and regulation and to what extent it is a problem. The last thing I want to ask him about is the developments I've been pointing to in my main post, which specifically concerns the public sector. There seems to be a trend, as many have pointed out, that contracts are increasingly being concluded where freedom of expression is restricted to workers when it comes to commenting on their own employment. Why is that in the public sector, and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1388	I am pleased – just to substantiate what the interpellant says – that half of the employees who have notified say it helps. I also believe it helps to a large extent if – and this is a lot of the issue – you have a good corporate culture, have a good culture for alerting people at work. Where you have good culture, good attitudes and good practices for this, it works very well. Here we still have a way to go and work to create better attitudes and provide better guidance and better help on how to establish these good practices. It is also one of the proposals that we are now following up, and that include, among other things. was adopted by the Stortinget and transmitted to the Government. So at my discretion, the interpellant asks a big question: is the way we've organized this, too fragmented? I'll try to reflect a little bit around this, because I've been challenged to it: To this, we have different departments with good competence and good tools, and it's fragmented: if these tools can't be used together, it can cause problems. At least this is a big challenge. The ability to cooperate more, coordinate and use the tools in a common mission is very good. Then there is no problem that you have different environments of competence. Let me take an example where we also think about combating the crime of working life. The fact that we now have coordinated supervision where the tax system, the Labour Inspectorate and the police use their tools together makes us get more out of it, and that it gets better. It is good with good competence in several places when dealing with this. The challenge in the past was that you were not good enough to interact. I think we need to be equally good at interacting in the case of alerts, which – as I point out – when it comes to, for example. animal welfare, serious environmental crime or corruption. Use this competence and allow the networks to interact to a much greater extent! As far as the public sector is concerned, I agree with the concern of the interpellant. I find it alarming if it is such that some employees feel tied to their hands and feet and cannot tell me about critical matters because they feel that their employment contract limits their ability to say from. Then we also have a job to do in providing good guidance towards the public sector, building better practices, improving attitudes and providing a better basis for better alerting work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1407	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important question. Warning is requested. It is legal, and it is absolutely necessary if businesses and parts of society are not to rot and rot, to put it straight out. This is about crime, violation of laws and regulations, breach of ethical rules and general ethical standards, harassment and other types of illegality, and it is probably more often than we like to think about. And changes in the world of work that make more and more people have a looser relationship with their employer will make many more in an even more marginal position to say from, or dry from. So that's important. Having said that, I would like to remind you that there are enough of such things also in the public sector and in the municipalities. It is alarming how low it is that this has been imposed on businesses to facilitate, i.e. to have procedures for alerting. This applies until breach of the constitutional right of freedom of expression. It is also sometimes subjected to violence by means of municipal internal legislation that prevents employees from discussing the content of their job publicly. And that's simply not allowed. That's what you're allowed to do, and we're going to want to do that, because there are people who have a lot to contribute, who are then put on a mouthpiece. When this legal text was adopted, there were quite major discussions on the content of the text. Of course, all the different views had held to their version, and I am still convinced that the criteria set out in the law that was passed are better than those that the opposition had at the time. They were very full of a lot of assessment themes that I think it is completely impossible to relate to, for example. that there should be no harm or that there should be competitive conditions that should be taken into account or that one should take into account some general ethical standard that was not defined. On the SV side, when this was dealt with, we made a very strong call for this to be evaluated. There is no specificity in the legal text, but if you want to have a new legal text, it must be even clearer and even simpler and not subject to any new assessment themes that a worker can find difficult to find out. And then we're at the last one, this one with a place to turn to. It is true that the Credit Authority has the best way of dealing with crime and unethical things going on in banking and finance, the Labour Inspectorate has the most good work life, etc., and there are different types of supervision to report to. But often you need someone to talk to before that, who can guide you to the instance you're going to, who can actually help you with the professional content of what you want to notify about, and make sure you're on the right track. And because these are often people who have been in a very stressful situation for a long time, they need someone to rely on. Therefore, we also believe that there is a very great reason to see if there should be a specific responsibility of this kind in one place. Whether it should be in the Labour Inspectorate, or whether to create a separate unit etc., we have no fixed point of opinion about, but we are absolutely convinced that such a unit is needed to which a person can turn in order to obtain various kinds of advice on how to proceed. Then we also believe that there is a need to look at this with secret agreements with termination payments also in alert cases – whether there should be law in the future. This is a way to give people the oral curve, on things that it can be of incredibly great public interest to come out. I also, just in the end, need to say that if you warn in good faith, it has nothing to say about what you warn about, later on it turns out to be true or not. It has nothing to do with that assessment. It may be wrong, but the right to alert is still present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1422	When we're in Norway, a society where, after all, people are less afraid to say from than in many other countries, I think it's more than just legislation. There's a culture that's anti-authoritarian, and we're an egalitarian society of farmers with books in the bookshelf, and I think that's the most important thing to take care of. That being said, there is always reason to look at the legislation. I believe – and the left believes – that there is a need for a more dedicated, more independent, device, a place where you can search for competence and guidance; there is a way to go. We should take a closer look at that. I am also pleased that the Council of State is involved and thinks a little bit about this with the fragmentation of responsibility, fragmentation of instruments, sectors and legislation. I hope that in the work of the government, one of the things is a four remark. When it comes to the public sector, at least I think there are many, both state leaders and also elected politicians out there, who are probably a little afraid of losing control, not least in the media society we live in today, and for that reason perhaps exaggerate the use of different contractual clauses, for example, that I have mentioned earlier. I also thought, to the recording by the representative, Karin Andersen, that she had a very good post, not least about this, which is just about just paying people to party and give a termination fee. It's in many ways understandable that it's being done, but it's a glitch, and it leads to society not being allowed to take part in the lesson that one should learn when it's being warned about serious matters. Finally, I would like to say that it is a pity that we no longer participate in such an important debate, but thank those who did so. Then we'll have respect for the fact that it's approaching the weekend, also for the Storting. To what I mentioned earlier in my opening post, about the advertisers who received the Free Word Price: I register that in an interview yesterday – in the evening post, it was well – the Minister of Justice was asked if he had congratulated Robin Schaefer on the price yet, and he had not. So I think I'd like to end by challenging the Minister of Labour: does he want to congratulate the recipients of the Free Word Prize for the job they're notifying, when he's going to have an post afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1439	Let me first point out what the representative, Karin Andersen, was about to say, to be sure about where you can turn. I think that's important. If you want a separate warning unit or if you want to do it another way, neither have I and the government taken a decision on this. Perhaps the best way to do this is to build on the guidance skills of the Labour Inspectorate, who already has the piece of guidance and information in this area. But then you have to make sure that you don't create structures that make it more difficult to use the skills of the other floors, because here we need cooperation across the board to succeed in serious cases – just because there are several instances inside. But there are things we're looking at, and we'd like to have a debate with the Storting in the future: what's the most effective way and the best way to organise it? I feel that what has emerged in the debate is not fixed positions, but that we all want to secure the everyday life of those who want to warn about critical situations – and that it should be safer and better. Then I also want to just underline what the representative Rotevatn said. I think it has been interesting to have been allowed to participate in the debate. It could be even more interesting if you had got a bigger and wider debate than what we've got today. But I record that at least we have received good input from those who have participated in the debate. Then I can end by saying that I have no problem congratulating those who have won the Free Word Prize – and that is what it is done. I think it's going to be the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1448	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1464	I noticed that the representative Rotevatn said it was coming soon to the weekend. I can promise you that where I come from, it won't be at 14:00 on a Thursday. There is no excuse to not participate in a debate. I grew up in Sogn and Fjordane, is tied to the county and cares about it. But that's not why I've traveled this interpellation. Fortunately, all our counties have representatives who are linked to them and grow up in them. I travel the interpellation because Sogn and Fjordane are a success – a slightly different success than most of the regions and our counties, and because in my view we see the outlines of a government policy that weakens the basis for that success, does not strengthen it. It's so that a lot of things in our society can't be measured. But to the extent that success can be measured, Sogn and Fjordane are a success group. The county has high employment, low unemployment and good school results. It has low crime, good public health, few divorces and is often called the state of well-being. The state creates large values, including: from energy production, industry, tourism and maritime food. The projections for the future population are also stable but vulnerable. Some municipalities are declining, some large municipalities are growing, but it is particularly challenging that many young people move out of the county and get back. It makes competence working places for the key to develop the county. I'll stay at one of the areas where Sogn and Fjordane do well – not to plague the Stortinget with sunshine stories, but because it's important and quite illustrative. Almost everyone who took part in the public debate and many who follow along knows that the Oslo ball is good. It knows one because he's good, but maybe the most because the Right in Oslo and national have used all the chances to tell about it. Get to know that the school in Sogn and Fjordane is just as good or even better. Students in Sogn and Fjordane get the best positions and exams in the country. On the 2014 Municipal Survey, a measure of quality at the school is far wider by looking at well-being and non-response. Here comes Bærum the best out, Förde is No. 2 – two municipalities that the Council of State knows well. Six of the top ten on the list are from Sogn and Fjordane. Oslo and Akershus and Sogn and Fjordane compete to have the best results in school, but the important thing is that what has the greatest impact on student outcomes is parental education. Oslo and Akershus are quite far above the national average. Sogn and Fjordane are well below the national average, but still have results at the level of the named counties. There is no simple explanation. A large group of researchers have been working on it for a long time, and factors such as parental follow-up, teacher's role, close cooperation with the high school and a culture for the importance of the school are being developed. The individual explanation is also not central here, but that many of the explanations are related to the state, the values there and how a person works there. You can also look at other fields. When life is high and popular well, it's related to the lifestyle there based on culture and tradition. When crime per capita is low, it is linked to a lower, systematic rate of crime in scattered areas than in agglomerations. In the public conversation we can sometimes right about the good results in Sogn and Fjordane. But I also mean that I experience in the debate a lack of appreciation of the success of authorities and others – a lack of faith that in Sogn and fjords there are values, institutions and hard work that can explain success. It's often reasonful sometimes, sometimes in jokes, that it's just like that. There is something of a possession – that success fails in hard work and against all odds. Perhaps, therefore, the proposals for structural changes that are up to debate now also appear, so little logical and without the disparity of what Sogn and Fjordne achieve. In Sogn and Fjordane there is a very successful collaboration between school and high school, says researchers. So let's put the marble under other marbles, other places. A little logical. In Sogn and Fjordane, crime is low. So let's put the police district under Hordaland, which probably hasn't turned out to be the leading transit district in the later days. A little logical. Sogn and Fjordane County are used to being under pressure in discussions about the structure of services and administration. But they've got a completely different direction and pace under the new government. She has set up a number of small and large processes to create robust devices. Often it means fewer units, and in many cases there are suggestions on the table that the administration and services should be moved out of Sogn and Fjordane, that it should be merged with other counties and that the workplaces should disappear from the county. Perhaps formerly mentioned government attitudes also suggest that she believes success is coming at all odds. And if others got to control more and there were larger units, Sogn and Fjordne would get their real potential out. I think that's a strong argument that it's the opposite. I think it's Sogn and Fjordane's qualities and values and work that have done a lot of success in many fields. Let me do three points in particular. Point 1: Sogn and Fjordane illustrate that small units and scattered busses can work well and provide some advantages. There are also some challenges to it, but not only that. Both small and large have their advantages, and both require that it be exploited for success. Point 2: Strong cohesion and cooperation can often play a role. That one has culture for it and institutions that run it doesn't come of itself. It has to be developed, and it's been made clear. Point 3: The Sogn and the Fjords have a strong will to control their own development, and a strong sense of being a state and having a community that many others do not have. Not so strange because they also have well documented results for it to work. This increases resistance to many of the grips. It seems to me that the government does not understand Sogn and Fjordane, nor does it value what the state achieves. Instead of thinking so that one should further develop the success, perhaps even actively spreading some of the ideas to other states, as it is of great interest to do the opposite, taking a model of change and trying to make it fit across the country. I think it's a paradox that the right is precisely behind the fact that municipalities and welfare services across the country need to be developed in the same direction as equal and larger units. Perhaps a concrete socialist in the 1950s could think so, but right – at least it is far from rhetoric to practice. I think that's a strong argument for us to think about different things in different parts of the country, and leave the local space of action strong. So I want to emphasize that this is not a post that everything should be the same. Change is necessary in all parts of society, in all areas of Norway. It applies to Sogn and Fjordane, as it applies to all other states. But I think there is no evidence that many of the processes and suggestions that are now on the table and discussed will provide better services. It may be right for many municipalities to merge, but it may also be right for many small municipalities in parts of the country. Fewer police districts may be right, but it is not true that no district should be much smaller than the others in the county, because they are different. There may be fewer and stronger bumps, but that doesn't mean there's exactly every place in the country. It is not a matter of employment in a state that can control the localisation and development of services, whether for health, police or education. It must be controlled by quality. But the sum of what kind of consequences it has must still be on the table in these processes. The amount of work that can now be done in Sogn and Fjordne for years to come will be reduced if one does not change the course. And skills jobs are particularly important in a state where the level of education, as mentioned earlier, is lower than many other places, and where it is key to creating growth. It is necessary to hold on to more young people and to further develop communities. Unfortunately, one lost job has a tendency to be two, because there are families who are going to have jobs – many of them with two people with higher education. And it's harder for businesses and the private to recruit people with higher education if there's not also public jobs, where there's room for many with higher education. I look forward to righting the government's response to this challenge here, and I don't least look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1517	Let me thank you for the interpellation and for the opportunity to take a look at regional policy — and especially at Sogn and Fjordane. I know the county well, as the interpellant also underlined, and I believe that there is every reason to share Sunshine stories from Sogn and Fjordane. I want to start by drawing out Sogndal as an example of a municipality that attracts young, competent and innovative workers – young people who establish themselves in Sogndal because they find good professional environments and unique opportunities for outdoor life. Innovative businesses and entrepreneurs build skills environments that they use in recruitment, together with the unique Sogndal, can offer experiences, lifestyles and nature. This, I think, is a good way for medium-sized cities to compete with cities for skills and innovative businesses, precisely by highlighting what makes them different and unique, and Sogndal with Fosshaugane Campus is an example of how it works. There is a broad consensus that Norway is facing a necessary transition in order to secure jobs and ensure well-being. A good district policy is part of the answer. Some of the most important resources we have are located in the districts and well distributed in our long-term country. We must then pursue a policy that creates strong regions – including in Sogn and Fjordane. The most important thing to ensure growth-intensive regions is a business that is able to take care of and create attractive and profitable jobs. The most important thing we can do to ensure growth and value creation across the country is to create good conditions for business, provide opportunities to create values and jobs of natural resources, increase investment and the pace of innovation. We focus more on what creates growth and development. This is why we have chosen to turn some of the regional policy subsidies into investments in rural roads and other infrastructure, while at the same time focusing on regional policy instruments and targeting them more towards business and innovation; Norway is a diverse country, and it is by nature that there are few straight lines on the Norway map. Road, rail and ferries are an important part of good district policy. Roads connect the country more closely and make the road shorter from work and business to customers and markets. Good transport enables more people to live and work in the districts. In our government period, the appropriations for county roads are proposed to increase by 1.2 billion. kr. Now we are proposing a new system of ferry relief for county roads, which means that ferry money can be invested in bridges and tunnels. Our proposal is well received in Sogn and Fjordane. In the revised national budget, the government also proposes 20 million. kr in the start-up grant to repair and breed-safe E39 between Bjørset and Schei. We will improve the framework conditions for those who want to set up new businesses and equip Norway for the future by raising the quality of knowledge and by investing in more research and innovation. Strong business environments need environments of competence. For this reason, the government proposes to invest in subsea training in Florø in the revised national budget. Over time, good professional and productive environments will be the best means of ensuring employment, no matter where you live in the country. Sogn and Fjordane have a dynamic and varied business life and many other strong qualities that the representative Solhjell mentions in his interpellation. The differentiated employer fee is another powerful regional and regional policy instrument, amounting to 14 billion. kr. The economy of Sogn and Fjordane enjoys a lower employer’s fee. The challenges facing the county must primarily be addressed by the state actors. The government's responsibility is to provide good framework conditions and opportunities for development. We need to pursue a policy that allows Sogn and Fjordane to exploit their strength and use their potential – and we do. Let me give you an example: the world's demand for minerals, and the minerals are in our mountains, among other things. in Sogn and Fjordane. The government has agreed to the Entgebo project. This project will create 300 long-term jobs in the Sunnfjord region and an annual value creation of 500 million. kr. We've spent time on that decision. Many have waited a long time, but we would be sure that we could say yes to both new jobs and a good solution for the environment and maritime food security. That's what we got. We have set the strictest emission requirements ever. That is why we could say yes, and with that decision we are opening up a new Norwegian industrial venture in Sogn and Fjordane. The representative Solhjell addresses the issue of the income system of the counties and the consequences for Sogn and Fjordane. The changes Stortinget has now adopted, should not surprise anyone. The revenue system has remained more or less unchanged since the mid-1990s. Society has changed a lot since then. The previous government notified changes several times, but was never able to conclude. Following the update of the income system, Sogn and fjords will still have a level of income significantly above the national average. In the 2015 budget, the national average of the counties' free income per capita is approximately NOK 12 000. For Sogn and Fjordane, the estimate is approximately NOK 20 000. Although the county also has higher expenditure, this is a significantly higher level, and it is the highest in the country. The government has launched a number of reforms in different areas to ensure better services for citizens where they live, now and in the future. Common to the reforms is that they are not due to the government’s desire to change Norway but that Norway has changed. To doubt structures from the 1950s, 60s and 70s is not the answer to the challenges we face in the decades to come. Saying no to development can quickly become a yes to increased centralisation. The community reform is a good example of a reform that allows municipalities to create stronger professional environments and thus even more attractive municipalities for residents and new businesses. The aim of the reform is good service production and safe communities in line with today’s needs. When borders for police districts and the location of police and officers offices are changed, the result is not fewer policemen and women. The most important thing about the police reform is to ensure more police officers where people live and live. The Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Fisheries have both made recommendations concerning regional structures and job placement. We have now decided that the Regional Office of the Directorate for Fisheries will continue to be in Måløy. The government's proposal for the transfer of the tax collection function to the Tax Agency was made for tasks to be transferred to the Eid office, in addition to the Leikang and Førde offices. In the fight against undeclared work and economic crime, it becomes vulnerable when municipalities have individual positions for this task. However, even if the tax collection function is made state-owned, and the environments of competence are brought together, the competences of Sogn and Fjordane are maintained – precisely by building stronger environments in Eid, Leikanger and Fjordde. In a change where the Ministry of Finance has ambitions to save over 400 annual works, the strong professional environments in Sogn and Fjordane are precisely priorities. The county retains in total all its 35 annual works for tax collection. The central government has varied types of activities in Sogn and Fjordane, such as the Förde Lottery and Foundations Authority, the Difi in Leikanger, the Sogndal District Centre, the Leikang Tax Information and the Fisheries Directorate in Måløy. These are examples of the political will to strengthen the development of the Sogn and fjords with skilled jobs. In addition to providing services to the population and business, many of the state jobs are very important skills jobs in local and regional labour markets. The Government amended ‘Guidelines for location of state workplaces and government service production’ in autumn 2014. There are now clearer requirements on how to implement the processes around the localisation issues. These include: requested that the departments of trade always take the decisive decisions on localisation. The government has already taken the initiative to move state jobs out of Oslo and establish state businesses elsewhere in the country. Patient injury shall leave Oslo. Bergen has a new complaint body for healthcare with 100 new jobs. We will set up an election directorate in Tønsberg, and the Minister of Health has announced that the National ICT Centre for Norwegian Hospitals is being located in Bergen, while the Hospital Building Centre is being added to Trondheim, and a new department in the Consumer Council is being added to Tromsø. Today's and tomorrow's challenges and opportunities require us to renew state agencies and services. The aim is to provide better help to citizens and businesses. It is a strength and quality in Norway that people live and thrive in all parts of the country. That's how we want it to still be. The government will have strong districts with attractive communities and business environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1571	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, in which I thought it was very good. It was a neat answer, but at the same time an answer that little pointed to a comprehensive strategy for Sogn and Fjordane, and that I found to be a small answer to many of the issues I raised. A good part of the general activity that was recorded here, from the differentiated employer’s fee via the payroll, is very much in agreement. They work and are important to the whole country, and we can discuss in detail who has been best in different periods of the different things. But the specific tools that are up to debate here have recently proved to be largely going in the wrong direction for Sogn and Fjordane. It was a little surprising to me that the Council of State chose to develop regional policy, which has not exactly been strengthened under the new government. And it is quite right that I know well about the proposals for changes in the funding of the county council, and the reason why I know well about it, is that it was not implemented by the government I myself was a member of. So it wasn't random, it was conscious. And the new government has just as deliberately chosen to implement it with the consequences it has also had for Sogn and Fjordane. Then the council invites you to a mineral debate here. I would like to accept that invitation – it was equally conscious that I did not include it in my post now. It is quite right that the government has agreed to the regulation plan for the Engebø project, and it is also right that he will provide some temporary jobs and some permanent jobs. But what you can see with this one now is two things: first of all, there's a strong local resistance to it in the region that's got it. According to the polls, Sunnfjord is clearly a multiplicity that goes against it, and it is a strong political resistance to it from the largest municipalities. And then there's also a strong scepticism from the other established parts of business in the same region, and that's because we're talking about what's marine nutrition in the same fjord that's traded for over 300 million. Last year, and because tourism and tourism are a major industry, and this is a project that can pose a challenge for both. But perhaps most importantly, this is, after all, an industry that will, to a limited extent, provide skilled jobs, so it is a very bad trade for Sogn and the Fjords if they get jobs that do not specifically require higher skills, while they are systematically lost for it. So I hope it can be a good debate, and that we can address why we can't, when we're going to make the necessary changes, strengthen and develop a model – states and values – that has proven to be a success, instead of reshaping with the same model in Sogn and Fjordane that will be used in completely different states in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1586	Let me first say that I answered the interpellation, but the interpellation is at many points out of date. We've decided that the Fisheries Directorate will be in Måløy. It has been established in the case of the right to change, that there will be no changes at that point. It is clear that 35 competence jobs in taxation will remain in Sogn and Fjordane, but in stronger environments that we also believe can have good ring-effects. The University of Sogn and Fjordane are still going to stay in Sogndal, and I just drew out the strong environment you have in Sogndal, where you see how private business, entrepreneurs, young people, college skills play well together, and where you get a great development. Let me also say that I am a little surprised at how – I might not be, but let me note anyway – the representative Solhell consistently talks down private value creation. Private jobs and businesses talk the representative Solhjell down. And maybe you shouldn't be surprised because there's different angles of incidence between the left-hand side and the center-right. Our perception is that the best district policy is investment in infrastructure, in transport. And when I get to Sogn and Fjordane, that's exactly what I get: Invest in transportation! And we do. We have now also put in place a system of ferry relief, which created cheers in Sogn and Fjordane. Then, of course, it's important that we have competence jobs, state competence jobs, and yes, we ensure that in Sogn and Fjordane. And Sogn and Fjordane are a state that has come out well just through it. Back to county income system: it is important that we have a fair income system for county municipalities. When the income system is based on cost keys 15 to 20 years old, it is obvious that it is out of date. But the previous government was unable to conclude, even if you were with the government for eight years. We have concluded, and that means that Sogn and Fjordane will still have about NOK 20 000 per capita in free income, while the average is between NOK 12 000 and NOK 15 000. This means that Sogn and Fjordane are still the highest, and that means that we also provide a good framework for the policy to be pursued in Sogn and Fjordane. Let me conclude by saying that I am also a little surprised that the representative Solhjell is calling for a strategy from the government of Sogn and Fjordane. Such a strategy has already been developed by Sogn and Fjordane – the county council is working well on it. It is important that our society evolves and is created from below, and then we must focus on the strong forces that are in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1599	First of all, I would like to congratulate the interpellant who is raising this debate. He's not really just about Sogn and Fjordane; he's about how one looks at the whole district policy. So it's not in the Minister's image at all that the government is facilitating growth in my home country. I'm more likely to share the image that most people in Sogn and Fjordane have of that not being the case. The problem from the interpellant still seemed to me unanswered, after I heard two posts from the minister, because the fact is that the blue breeze that went over the county with promise of new ideas and better solutions, proved to contain quite a number of dark clouds that were to a hurricane that dismantled our block bit by bit. The police reform is here – we're going to wait and see what it's like, but that there's going to be an increase in the local police force, I don't believe in it. The alarm centre - will it be or will it not be? Fire Service - what's going to happen there? Sculpture - will there be a strengthening from the government side on the Sculpture? The tax collection is listed here - it should now be in three places. It's not exactly a strength, but they've put it in three places. Courts, Bioforsk in Fjaler, e.g. – where will a soil scientist be if it is not in the West, where the earth is? All this and more is being put into play, and even if the minister argues otherwise, that there is growth and joy here, one actually pulls up with the root one competence workplace after the other – and that under this simplification tab, the centralisation tab, and that one should have robust enough environment. It is true that the county council has got a new income model that leads to serious contractions in my county, and how fair that model is, yes, we can have an interpellation debate on that. It doesn't feel particularly fair that the inhabitants of my county should be offered worse than the inhabitants of other states because of a conversion of a model that means that we have to tighten seriously. And when you look at the municipalities and the income they have received, I don't see that the tax failure is compensated by the government. Then it's not so strange that we ask what the government wants with my state, and what the government wants with District Norway. The rest of us want growth and development. If that's what you want, we have to do it, we have to get the tool back to us so that we can have growth and development. The many reorganisations and reforms that are under way reinforce the centralisation of state services, leading to even greater pressures on cities. While it may seem natural and right to implement conversion in several sectors, when these changes are pushed forward at a high pace and without coordination, it is actually wrong to do so. It has our great value creation in District Norway. I can refer to energy production, fisheries, agriculture, metal production, oil-related industries, travel and shipyards – there are many good examples of this. However, the relocation of state enterprises out of the districts leads to fewer skilled jobs and will make many counties and municipalities less attractive and competitive. In fact, a certain size is needed to attract a wide range of skills workplaces, which in turn provide a Grobot for new activities and new activity for growth. Closeness to educational institutions and good infrastructure is also very important, and good examples can be found – as the minister himself drew up here – for example. Diffi at Leikanger, the Fisheries Directorate in Måløy and the Lottery and Foundations Authority in Förde. And then there's also a lot of private businesses on the top of Norway coming from my county. I can refer to Hydro's technology center in Årdal, which develops the purest aluminum with the least carbon footprint possible, the Brothers Aa in Hyen, world leader. We have many, but we have to have the means back, so we can get more growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1616	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a debate in Stortinget on my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, and I am in agreement with the inter-pellant in the positive and good aspects of Sogn and Fjordane, as for example. Good school results, great nature and good public health. Interpellant points out that structural changes introduced by the government will lead to extensive centralisation away from the state, and he refers to police, high school, tax offices, law enforcement, fisheries and emergency services. It's with great joy I can refute most of these statements. Today, we got news that the Regional Fisheries Directorate Office is going to be in Måløy, and we already know that the high school is going to go on as an independent unit, and when it comes to police reform, the police analysis that the Red-Green Government got worked out suggested that the number of police districts should be reduced from 27 to 6 – just to mention three of the reforms in line with the interpellant. The interpellant also indicates that the county is affected by changes in the county economy. This can't possibly come as a surprise on the interpellant. There were slight changes in the income system of the county councils in the state budget every year in the last years of the red-green government, but they dared not do anything about it. When the Right-front party government presented the new income system in the 2014 Municipal Proposition, there was strong criticism from red-green politicians both centrally and locally. There is no doubt that these politicians wanted to blackmail the situation as much as they can, in order to have a good election campaign in the local election campaign in 2015. Today we see that much of this criticism has stopped. State politicians have been through demanding rounds where most of the work has been assessed, and they have been able to cover the most important county tasks. It is long until 2019 when the new income system will be fully implemented. The government budget will be submitted in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 before the final figures are ready, so much will change until then. The interpellant is critical of what the government does for Sogn and Fjordane, but he does not take any self-criticism on what he himself was into, as a council member of a red-green multi-territorial government. I have already learned that the red-green government does not dare to put in place a new income system for county municipalities for many years. They were also cowardly when it came to taking decisions in three important trasé elections for the E39 in the West. The same was true of mineral extraction in Engebø, a matter that lay on the interpellant's table for a long time. In addition to these matters, all the mess with the new 420 kW line through the county, where the central party councils ran through the whole county and the interpellant as the Environmental Council approved the trajectory through a nature reserve. This case is now in the Supreme Court. I would say that the red-green government failed the Sogn and the Fjord in many areas. Our government is doing the opposite. I'm going to mention three concrete things that have a very big impact on our state, which the Right Party government has been putting in place lately. The County Roads Holiday Clearing Scheme means that three to four county holiday connections can be disengaged by bridges and/or tunnels, with a cumulative price tag of several billion kroner. The red-green government couldn't do this in eight years. We delivered in one year. The government took a courageous and wise decision to approve the mining control plan in Engebøjellet and has thereby facilitated an industrial venture in Sunnfjord and Sogn and Fjordane that will provide 300 jobs and a value creation of 500 million. Every year the next 50 years. The red-green government couldn't even make a decision. After just one year with the Right-front party government, there is now a case in the Stortinget that guarantees 170-200 small power plants green certificates. Overall, this means revenues for these small power plants between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr during the licence period. Of these 170 small power plants, more than 30 are from our state. Here, too, the Right-Forward Party government cleans up in red-green root. In addition, the Right-front party government has facilitated a strong investment in road construction. This applies to increased investment and road maintenance. Good examples of road construction at blue-blue pace are the exploration of the E39 Bjørset–Skei and the increase of the permissions to the Hohensnesbrua in Sogndal to ensure a rapid recovery. The government has also made it possible to make a strong effort on the county roads. Since the change of government, we have called for the wolf, the wolf from red-green politicians, both centrally and locally, and from some others in the political environment. In this article, I have shown that the government is helping to boost growth, increase value creation and positive development for the business community and the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1646	I want to start by saying that I notice that the council told sunshine stories from Sogn and Fjordane. When I've been visiting, alone or together with the Committee, in Sogn and Fjordane, it's the same impression that I have, that there's a lot of sunshine stories being told, and that there's a lot of good local politicians, state politicians and business representatives who are proud of their state, and who tell how good they are and who share in creating a good example. The Committee landed in Sogndal and got the same impression that the Council of State had, from Sogndal and Campus and the cooperation that is there. We went on and on in Stryn, and saw how innovative and innovative the business and municipalities are in that part of the county. So we're left with a good impression. The only people I feel speak a slightly different language are some red-green politicians, who tend to represent the state as something other than what we see of the head numbers and the ones we meet, and the impression we have of the county. This debate has shown that many of the reforms referred to by the interpellant have been rejected, and that one of the facts shows that this government does not intend to treat Sogn and fjords in such a way as to create an impression. Many examples are simple. The measure and the clarification that came is one example. Another is the proposal for localisation in the case of tax collection, which will ensure equal numbers of jobs at the three sites in Sogn and Fjordane, while the rest of the country will have fewer jobs. So here Sogn and Fjordne will strengthen their position compared to others. Then a number of the income system of the county councils and Sogn and Fjordne's role in relation to it is created. The new thing I registered was that the interpellant told me that the previous government didn't intend to propose to implement a new income system for the county councils. That was new to me. I, who have read the municipal proposals, also at that time, are waiting for a proposal. But now we got confirmation today that they didn't intend to make a proposal, they just told them to make a proposal. This government, on the other hand, has updated the keys and made an estimate of what is fair, but because it took so long before one could update the keys, has created transitional arrangements and stepped this down. So the state councils said that Sogn and Fjordane still get the most in Norway per capita, even more than the three Northern Norwegian states, so the representative Heggo says that one does not provide funds to provide good services must be wrong. Even after the full operation of the new income system, Sogn and Fjordane County will be one of the county municipalities in Norway that get the most per capita, precisely because they have special challenges and cost needs. We could talk a lot about all the positive things that happen in Sogn and Fjordane. My party and group leader in Sogn and Fjordane County, Frank Willy Djuvik, has today updated a blog where he presents a graph showing that Sogn and Fjordane have received a positive employment rate. Where the national average is moving in a slightly different direction, Sogn and Fjordane are strengthening themselves. Everything does not come naturally from the change of government, but I hope and believe that the positiveness and yes-thing that characterises this government is part of the optimism that Sogn and Fjordne also experience. In the same blog, Djuvik lists a number of things that are quite consistent with the representative Lødemel said, about positive things that have happened in Sogn and Fjordne after the government change. One has clarified a lot of trasear, one has taken some decisions - Enbø, etc. – which, in sum, provides a basis for great optimism in Sogn and Fjordne and the possibility that one can strengthen the state. The representative Lødemel also includes the holiday settlement, which is really good district policy, and which this government has on its menu, but which the previous one was unable to get in place on the county road network. Yesterday, I met with Lødemel and Frank Jensen with the spokespersons in Askvoll and Sunund, who are both more than ready to use their new tools to engage in transportation and to create optimism for their municipalities. When we hit the two spokesmen, we did not experience in any way the slightly negative hold that others expressed, but we experienced a tremendous threat to the future and positiveness in relation to the instruments that the new great crowd and the new government provide for the consultation of Sogn and Fjordane County. So I totally agree with my party trap, Djuvik, who says in his blog that Sogn and Fjordane, together with many others, are a winning team.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1667	Norway is, in fact, a special country, both demographic and geographical. We live in fjords and peaks and have opportunities and challenges that are characteristic of each district of the country. Each district demands its own and provides us with opportunities and challenges that we need to make the most of politically and otherwise. But we have one thing in common as people, and that's that we want a solidarity society where there's a similar service offer everywhere in the country. That's why we have a cohesion policy that the Christian People's Party is proud that we can participate and contribute to, so that there are good services everywhere. It's going to be education for young people, and we know that Sogn and Fjordane have their own challenges with regard to high school, transport, living on the dormitory, etc. People are entitled to a varied cultural offer, and we must not least make sure that there is a good infrastructure for the transport of goods, services and people. This means that business organization is very important, so that people can deliver before they enjoy it. Then I must be allowed to replicate to the Council of State that when he mentioned the relocation of state jobs to Bergen and Trondheim, it does not feel like district policy. At the same time, I must be allowed to replicate to some red-green representatives that they must be careful to talk down Sogn and Fjordane and enjoy the dissatisfaction. Sogn and Fjordane have a unique position in that they represent a national capital. Both nature and natural resources are unique. In terms of public health, quality of living and life, Sogn and Fjordane can be shown to be in a special class. They have developed a decentralised settlement with a robust childhood and youth breeding environment and a strong Community culture, and they have little crime. This is amazing. But it's not romance, although it's a party trip to drive in Sogn and Fjordane. I'm sure the socks are all right. They are the rites, they have their own identity, and they have committed politicians, and we also notice that in the Christian People's Party. Here are important qualities that need to be safeguarded and strengthened, and we need to further develop the potential of Sogn and Fjordane, as the Christian People's Party sees it. We need to strengthen the work of building multiple paths with yellow stripe, and we need to help with racial protection. The Christian People's Party will support measures against centralisation, and we assume that realistic alternatives in the municipalities are now being explored in the context of the community reform. Robust professional environments need to be established for the population, that is the most important, and then municipal boundaries and other structures need to be changed. What society is now facing will mean change, and it's not especially for Sogn and Fjordane, it's for the whole country. The Christian People's Party knows the challenges of boats and ferries, and we are therefore happy to join in and support the holiday relief funds that come. We also, along with the Left, made a significant contribution through the loss compensation to make Sogn and Fjordane able to be a good place to live. The Christian People's Party has thus, together with the Left, made a difference, and we will continue to support schemes and regional policies that make it good to live in Sogn and Fjordane, and that it will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1680	It's strange that you have to have an interview about the future of a state in Norway, about Sogn and Fjordane. Sogn and Fjordane, which score the highest in the school, with a high school recruiting students from all over the country, a football ball that most years after 1976 has doctors in the elite division, a business that makes us at the top of the country on value creation per capita, a travel life that has UNESCO evidence of top quality and a public sector at the forefront of the country when it comes to cross-sectoral cooperation, for example. within standby. Such a debate would wonder two years ago under the red-green rule weight, but after two years of blue-blue rule, I agree with the interpellant: we have to raise the question of what the government wants with Sogn and Fjordane. I would like to congratulate Mr Vegar Solhjell on putting matters on the agenda today. In the election campaign two years ago, I and the Central Party warned against the policy of a right-wing dominant government, and what consequences this policy would have for a district party such as Sogn and Fjordane. Then I was indebted to blackmail, bring unwarranted debts against the other party, etc. But not even I had the imagination to imagine how effective the government would be in making proposals that shut down, centralizing functional organizations and disassembling Sogn and Fjordne as a small, but effective unit. Rename selection: Police reform will weaken preparedness and good cross-sectoral cooperation on preparedness if the police district is shut down and submerged under Bergen. I hope that today's debate will know what the various parties will do about this. It's remarkably quiet from all the big parties, including the Workers' Party, in this case. Police reform was a structural reform, a mockery of the Gjørv Commission and a tragedy against the security of Sogn and Fjordane. What will happen to the 110 central in the wake of a change in police structure? The fire study suggests the centralisation of the well-functioning fire service in the municipalities. How would it have been in Laerdal if we hadn't had the local fire service, which reacted promptly? The government is running an immeasurable pressure to bring down the Sogn and Fjordne hills against the will of the government, and is now running a funding system to which the leadership at the school is strongly critical, and to which I hope we can change the Storting in ours to ensure the future of a self-reliant high school in Sogn and Fjordne, which recruits and delivers amazing results. When it comes to Innovation Norway, Sogn and Fjordane lose ownership, governance, resources and jobs. The government has clearly forgotten that Innovation Norway is a married child of the District Development Fund. At a large conference this year, Melin Medical's lead in the Gloppen municipality said they wouldn't be closed if they were located in a city. Why? Well, there's a short distance from the leaders of the Glocken, and there's a short way and a good dialogue with Innovation Norway. The government is cutting broadband construction. Sunday-open shops will provide closed district stores. Avinor's going to cut 100 million. SEK – 150 million. kr in the regional airport network. The third EU Postal Directive will increase the cost to business of Sogn Fjordane. New road carrier – no project in Sogn and Fjordane. Agricultural policy is a separate chapter. It will favour large-scale use, with ugly negative consequences for income and development opportunities for average agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane. One puts Bioforsk on Fureneset – an important research institution. The Minister of Health announces changes in the hospital structure, and the Council of State itself is effective in the reduction of new income systems, resulting in considerable redistribution in the disfavor of the districts. The red-green government dared not do anything about it. We could not put forward an income system that disfavors a state like Sogn and Fjordane, and where a non-portfolio key has not been put in place to meet the challenges of ferrying along the coast. A red-green government could never do that. That's why it didn't come either. It had not come until we had put in place a fair system. We don't have that today. Local government reform, if it gets what it wants, will provide fewer and more centralised jobs. In the middle of this is the happy message: the Fisheries Directorate will continue in Måløy. We have had this for many decades – there is no new activity or new jobs. Avinor tells us to keep the airports, which we've had for many decades – there's no new activity, but cut the loops. It's going to take off with flag-lifting! It shows you a little bit about what your expectations are for today's government. But does it lead to the future when the level of ambition of the government and the elected representatives of the government and supporting party are so low? Sogn and Fjordane have plenty of initiative-rich people with a future and a job. There's a lot of positive happening. Founders create new jobs, and there is a lot of activity that can develop further. People don't ask for more than the national government to play with them, bring things that help them to build on, as the red-green government did – and don't tear down what works well today. Is there too much to ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1723	Thanks to the interpellant, Board Vegar Solhjell, who hasn't forgotten where he came from, and that's very fun. We need an engagement for the Sogn and the Fjords in the Stortinget, as well as the Sogn and Fjordane bench. This has been a debate with approximately equal doses of estimation and black measurement. I'm going to try to reflect on what I think is the reality here. I'm on the Labour and Social Committee. Sogn and Fjordane are our dream group. It's a low-unemployment group, with increasing employment, with low crime, with few who are unhappy – in short, where people live good, safe lives, create values, go to work. That being said, Sogn and Fjordane have some challenges. They're not special to Sogn and Fjordane, but they're the same challenges that we see in some areas in Norway that have one thing in common, and that's that it's a scattered area. Around our big cities it's been a solid growth, they're in many ways economic engines in their area. Sogn and Fjordane have a slightly different challenge, and they come across a low to almost non-existent growth in jobs – not over the last two blue-blue years, but over very many years – and unfortunately too low a start-up when it comes to entrepreneurs, businesses and value creation. The reform processes that take place in different state institutions have created a significant disturbance in Sogn and Fjordane. There I will give both the interpellant and others who have spoken today, right. Obviously, people get nervous when a lot of structures that people know as basic to the security of their everyday lives are perceived as being put at risk. One shouldn't be afraid of reform processes, but I think it's important to stress that it's the elected people, the politicians, who are going to make decisions and look up to each other, it's not the trade unions alone. It has been our Left's approach all the way, and we also believe that many of the processes that have already landed are well landed. When it comes to the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, I think, to the extent that it has been a useful debate for Højskulen to look critically at its own business: how are we good, how can we get better? For example, an area where you can get better is research. And then we've chosen to say both from the left-hand side, and I also perceive from the Storing side, that one won't go in for any coercion. One listens to what the board recommends, that one wants to be an independent institution. When it comes to police reform, the last word is not even said. She's been sent to the Storting. The backside here is a very serious situation in the Norwegian police, in Norwegian preparedness, which is thoroughly documented and which needs an answer. Then I'm glad that, as far as I'm concerned, all parties, as close as the Center Party, are still in discussions about getting a good solution for the whole country, also for Sogn and Fjordane. The process around the Fisheries Directorate was landed today. Fewer regions could be good reasons, but breaking up good, safe environments of competence near the fish, near the industry in Måløy, in Ålesund is a bad idea. There we have secured, and it has been important for the Left to ensure that there is still an environment of competence. What is a major challenge – there is no doubt about it – is the county economy. That there was going to be an adjustment in the income system, it was expected, it was necessary, but after the Left's view it went too hard beyond some states. Sogn and Fjordane, it was the country that went hardest. The fact that one first got a loss compensation, and then a stronger loss compensation last year, was absolutely necessary. In my view, there is also something that one should continue for years to come. Otherwise, there have been many good news in the budget equation one has received in the Greatness between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party of the Sogn and the Fjords, of a large and smaller nature. It is about putting in place more frequent departures on the ferry link Lote-Anda. It is a matter of exemption from the electricity charge for data storage centres, it is a matter of licensing to Sogn Land- og Hagebruksskule and to Nynorsk Avissenter. It's about Bjørset-Skei. In short, a lot of what has been important political demands from the county is being met, if not in the budget, then at least in budgetary terms. It's important. So it should be said that the Storting may not be able to solve all the challenges for Sogn and Fjordne, some of them also have to solve for themselves. It should be said that it is not just the political plural here that matters, it also does the political plurality of Sogn and Fjordane County. It has been the same for many years, and in my view it should change to the autumn, but we will have to take that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1746	Sogn and Fjordane are robust. It shows all the numbers coming from there. It's a state that stands well in many contexts, and that's an example to follow for many others. The reason why this interpellation is so important is that it seems that the government has the opposite angle of incidence, that is, that you have to copy something about centralization, about privatisation, and that's about strengthening what's a bit the opposite of what Sogn and Fjordane are. I miss that the Council of State says a little more about it. There is a lot in District Norway that goes well, but Sogn and Fjordane are doing very well in a lot of areas, so why not strengthen it more, instead of creating both uncertainties about jobs and also about schemes that have made Sogn and Fjordane work well? Some of what I think works very well in Sogn and Fjordane, is the identity that is created around it, and that identity I and SV want us to build up both in Sogn and Fjordane and in the rest of District Norway. So we must strengthen our rural policy and not weaken our rural policy. This applies in many areas and in particular to the economy of the county. Big changes have been made. The government did not dare to have that matter consulted – they refused it and made a decision over the table that not only hit Sogn and Fjordane, but hit large parts of District Norway and the counties that have many good offers, great opportunities, but that have little population and long distances, or lots of fjords and mountains, which you have in Sogn and Fjordane, and which cost a lot. But the government has chosen to say that no, that kind of cost is less important. We'd rather pay more where it's easier to do things, where the wheels go so it laughs off its sails. This has a powerful centralization effect, and we haven't seen the effect of it. It is quite right that the representative from the left says: there is no loss compensation here. It got better in Stortinget, and that's SV is very happy – we supported it too. The problem here is that the impact will take place in a few years, and then we'll see what kind of secondary school services Sogn and Fjordane are able to give to their students without having to centralize, so that many more of them have to stay on the shelf. It must be a goal for all of us that the lowest possible number of our young people need to stay in the dormitory when they're going to high school. When there is uncertainty about one of the colleges we have in this country, which is doing the very best, you don't think that here it's the jam that works very well, that works well for the country, and that works well for its county. No, that's the way to think about it: here's something small that's far away from there, so I think we're starting to play. The last time the Right was in government, they did this with Hedmark, where they proposed to lay down the most internationalized department of the Hedmark High School, the one at Evenstad. And yes, it's true that it's a little bit remote, and it's a little bit small, too, but it's amazingly successful. And I'm happy for the government change that came then, and that we got to stop that closure. Tax collection is something else. It is now centralized by the government, which says that Sogn and Fjordane have also won something because you don't take any jobs out of the county. No, you haven't won anything, you're going to lose, and if the government sees you need some reinforced units to fight black work, especially related to foreign companies and big entrepreneurs, you get to do it – and don't remove what actually works, and that makes you manage to solve these issues locally without too much loss. In the case of Fördefjorden, I expect the interpellant to respond, but agriculture is important. What is now being done in agriculture will affect important parts of employment in Sogn and fjords. This will make it difficult to produce enough food from Norwegian resources, precisely because they are a little scattered and small. But that's good. In addition to this, the government clearly shows, when they remove Bioforsk, that it is not going to be researched in agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane – it is obviously not worth anything now, so it is taken away. What that means for travel life, I dare not think of.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1757	The situation in Sogn and Fjordane has become so problematic over the course of a year that the interpellant was in. It cannot be just the national policy that matters. In particular, regional and local policies are also of great importance. Although I definitely do not believe that all decisions in recent times have been positive for the county – believing that the deposit of mining sludge in Førdefjorden will have as great positive ring effects as some people think, I am reasonably sure that is going in the wrong direction. But then I think that someone needs to discuss more fully what to do to attract young people and newcomers. One must have a strategy, not just by going against the current at all times. I don't think it'll be sustainable. I think it's important in the future to face up to the fight for youth to just take up the competition, when the county delivers some of the best results in high school — as it actually does. But one cannot escape the fact that there are no challenges for a district party, including Sogn and Fjordane – that is not the case, of course. For all districts, infrastructure is important, and not least in those regions where there is a high need for ferries and fast boat services. But neither can it be that one at any time turns the ring around the existing without looking at the possibilities ahead. That's why I think we need to look more closely at the opportunities that lie there, what Sogn and Fjordane have of opportunities to become part of a larger region in the West – look at the opportunities for growth in that part of the country. It is important in the future to address the fight and competition for youth, which is the future. It is not surprising that the county also has a great responsibility in terms of the economy. Yes, we had a loss compensation in place last year. The interpellant thought that they had not had to develop the new income system that was then worked out and that was in the drawers. I think it was necessary to put in place a new income system for the counties, but it was also absolutely necessary to make a transition when the unintended effects on Sogn and Fjordane – and more states – were so great. That's why it was important for the Left that we had a positive impact on strengthening the loss compensation. It's about being able to provide equivalent services and good services to the whole country, and not just an equal price, because the country is long-term and diverse. Many have been involved in the earlier debate on Sogn and Fjordane, but it is also necessary to be able to look at what is possible. It is therefore necessary that when a cutter in the budgets, one should also focus on the rapid impact of this on high school and, in particular, young people in the affected states. It's not the left willing to be on. I agree with what Geir S. Tskedal said from this pulpit just in terms of emigration: emigration can't just be about moving between the big cities. It has to be about being able to help and strengthen the regional focal points through state jobs, so that we can strengthen the environment of competence throughout the country. That's exactly the way we also contribute to this becoming attractive to us and the youth who comes after us. Karin Andersen was in the field of agriculture at the end. The fact that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were contributing last year made just the big difference that we got an agricultural settlement that was diverse. Not only should there be the greatest opportunities, but we were also concerned that the smaller uses were given opportunities — like western agriculture, as domestic and as many more places. Therefore, it is important to see the balance that there is the possibility of both being large and small, but also seeing developments throughout the country. It has always been what has been the focus of the Left – diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1772	The representative of Skkelstad claimed that what has happened in Sogn and Fjordane is not just a result of the government change, and nothing has happened in the last two years. I don't think there are many in Sogn and Fjordane who don't share my picture that the framework conditions have at least been significantly exacerbated during the last two years. We see that everything is moving towards more centralization. If it's not a big grip, at least it's all in the same direction. I can mention the growth grant, I can mention the proposed conversion of corporate tax, I can mention the centralization effect of the municipal reform, we can mention police reform, we can continue indefinitely. There is one thing I have not been told that has been mentioned before, and there is a differentiated employer's fee. It's a very important part of district policy, and the government has notified the draw of 267 million. kr in the framework grant to the 31 municipalities that were covered by the scheme last year shall be adjusted by the phasing-in phase over five years. That means a reduction of 53 million. kr every year. At the same time, the government says that the principle of provincial neutrality towards the local government is established by the conversion of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. The municipality proposal for 2016 reads as follows: ‘Different employer’s fee is a scheme aimed at the business sector in the districts and is intended to facilitate employment growth throughout the country. The scheme shall be neutral for the municipal sector.’» Then I'm worried. Of the 286 municipalities that are in the scheme, 231 came in before 2013, and 31 new in 2014. The effect of a differentiated employer’s fee is not included in the income system of the municipalities. Reduced employers’ fees are a district policy instrument that benefits both business and public activities. For us in the Centre Party, it has at least been important for the public and private sectors to be treated in a non-discriminatory way in terms of the effect of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. Therefore, I would like to have a response from the Council of State as to whether the leadership of the municipality proposal now means that 286 municipalities will be drawn to the effect of a differentiated employer’s fee – that is, that all municipalities will be drawn in line with the 21 municipalities that now lose the benefit they have of a lower employer’s fee for their employees. It would have been nice to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1790	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, which I think has been good for some time. As I said in my previous post, I thought that the Council of State replied neatly and had many good points in its first post, but I still have to say that I thought the Council of State's second posts, and the posts of the representatives of the Right and the Progress Party who shared here have our record books in the way they talk about the problem. I think people who would follow in this debate in Sogn and Fjordane, see a government that doesn't fully understand what's going on, and the reality they're experiencing there. I have to wonder, when I hear the representatives Njåstad and Lødemel, who quite openly think that it was quite bad before, but that now it goes so susar: When was the representative Lødemel at home last? It is relatively far from the debate that is taking place in Sogn and Fjordane. Let me take three central points. One point: I actually think it's a good description that the debate sometimes has a doctor between the estimation and the black polling. I fear myself that my post was well-painting. I spent a lot of time telling you how good it is. It's not just good. It's a challenge. But the special thing now is the most acute challenge in Sogn and Fjordane. Did she come because the population suddenly goes down? Did she come because there is an acutely difficult labour market situation, a very high rate of crime growth or something else? No, it's primarily government policy that is challenging Sogn and Fjordane right now. It's interesting that while many trends and things are controlled by the state itself, and external factors, point in a very positive direction, a challenge is a series of decisions and discussions that the government is giving rise to. Point two: Is there a need for conversion? Yes, there is always a need for change and development of all places in Norway under all governments. But what I'm missing is that instead of everything being so that one has to change small units, that centralization has to take place, take the opposite approach and see if there's anything about preparedness and crime work in Sogn and the Fjords that others might want to change and learn from. What about the school in Sogn and Fjordne – which I spent a little time on – maybe someone should have as a project to see how to use it in schools across the country, instead of thinking the opposite, and that the high school, which has had an important part of that success, could actually be a model, not the opposite? Three, is the state supposed to mean something and want something with the state of Norway? Do they know what? I do not know any county or municipalities that are left to themselves. Overruled – no, but that's how I expect a government to want something with our poor country, with the different parts of it. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians and the responsibility of the Councils to debate it and point out the direction and take responsibility for the decisions we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1801	Let me start by stressing that this is an important debate, and I think there have been many interesting perspectives in it. But at the same time, I have to say that the rhetoric that Heggø, Navarsete and Karin Andersen show really scares me, because you throw out a series of claims that the government dismantles the county piece by piece, without substantiating its claims. On the contrary, through this debate, we have refuted many of the claims made in the interpellation regarding state jobs and skills jobs, and we have underlined some of what may be the real conflict line here: that while some people doubt structures from the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s and believe that everything should be as it is, we are convinced that a good rural policy, a good regional policy, must be about safe, profitable jobs. That's why we're upgrading the infrastructure in Sogn and Fjordane, giving more money to county roads, getting a ferry relief system in place, ensuring that we have strong environments of expertise that can help you get to the same other places that you've managed to get to in Sogndal. It is also claimed by the representative Heggø that there is a worse offer in Sogn and Fjordane than in other counties. I don't get to grips with that when it is that Sogn and Fjordane get NOK 20 000 per capita for the state of free income, while the national average is NOK 12 000. When you have NOK 20 000 while other counties are around NOK 12 000, I cannot understand that it will be a worse offer. Yes, it's a higher cost level, but it's also that counties like More and Romesdal, like Troms, Nordland and Finnmark, also have significant challenges. To the question of a differentiated employer’s fee, this government follows the same practices that previous governments have done, but what we do is we clean up. We ensure that the municipalities that have now received a move because they have received a lower employer’s fee will get a little less every year in the future. This means that those municipalities will come out better and better in the next five years when this is fully phased out. We need strong districts, strong regions, viable businesses and good communities. It is a good district policy, and we contribute to it by focusing on both private value creation, infrastructure, what can build the country, and what can contribute to a positive development also further in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1814	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1820	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e1828	A total of 33 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–33, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 9, 11 and 18 have been converted into transmission proposals in the course of the debate and are amended accordingly. Proposal No. 9 then reads as amended: "It is recommended that the government improve the possibility of continuing vocational teachers in the programme subjects." Proposal No. 11 then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government facilitate more exchange models and practices, inter alia by increasing the possibility of freeing trade and hour distribution through the school cycle.’ Proposal No. 18 then reads as amended: «It is recommended that the government submit a case to require undertakings participating in public procurement tenders to be active training establishments and have apprentices in the project in question, where possible.» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–8, 10, 12–17 and 19–33, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the advisory service in the youth and secondary sectors by means of increased resources, continuing training and better cooperation between the various actors in the professional, higher education and employment sectors.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up an offer of accommodation in the labour market for shorter periods for advisers aged 8-10. Steps.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide for an offer of intensive education between youth and secondary education for students with poor basic skills, and to ensure, in particular, follow-up of students at risk of non-skilling.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the counties facilitate good contact between school and local work.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a case for a separate level of competence with an adapted initial training package for vocational teachers, with the aim of ensuring that all are in compliance with the addition requirements.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a recruitment plan with favourable grant schemes to motivate more skilled workers to take vocational training courses.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to determine which model of future vocational training will best ensure quality and adequate recruitment.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that permanent accommodation arrangements are established in all counties for vocational teachers and instructors.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to make the common subjects more professional.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better opportunities for students who have opted for specialisation to change to a professional race.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to grant financial grants to enterprises that include students for shorter periods of practice early in the training course.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide schools with a better financial framework to organise good two-year practical courses for students who do not receive an apprenticeship.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an upgrading plan for equipment upgrades in professional studies.’; Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a pilot project on a model from Denmark using labour market policy instruments to stimulate education.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the commitment and ownership of the parties to the training through, inter alia, the professional advice.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to make it easier for smaller companies to join forces to bring in apprentices.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better follow-up of apprentices in the enterprise by ensuring that the school, together with the enterprise, is given responsibility for the student’s achievement of the skills objectives during training in the workplace.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to contribute to the extension of the labour market guidance system to several schools.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to put forward a case for strengthening vocational training students, to give them responsibility for assessing future labour skills needs and to advise on the dimensioning of the study offer.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, asks the government to identify the role and structure of training agencies in future vocational training.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the apprentice’s contribution to the State budget.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a pilot project in selected sectors with a learning venues and quality measures pay-back scheme.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the apprenticeship allowance goes to the municipal or county work which actually takes the apprentice.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of an economic incentive scheme paid to the enterprise and apprentice after having obtained a diploma.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the funding system for secondary education to ensure that it provides financial incentives for municipalities and schools to increase the number of students completing secondary education.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various financial measures to help reduce absenteeism and increase implementation in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start cooperation with the social partners on more developed and better adapted vocational training in services/commerce and parts of private services.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that students with a diploma are given the opportunity to enter academic studies in higher education according to the model from the Y-road and that the Y-road offer is extended in line with the needs of society and work.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to improve the ability of adults to take professional letters.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the parties, asks how to strengthen the career path of the education system.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2040	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to convert the second foreign language and linguistic depression in Norwegian/Samian and English into electoral subjects at the school’s youth level. As a result of any change, the number of compulsory hours must be reduced, while the number of hours of elective training must be increased accordingly. 2. foreign language and linguistic depression must then be a compulsory offer at all youth schools.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2068	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide good guidance to assist in the preparation of local curricula in the field.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide training for teachers in the field of employment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2090	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of the labour market as a compulsory offer at the youth level.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2141	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 5 and 6, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No. 7, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce eight points for repeated discrimination.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2179	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government in a new regulation on the standard rules for the withdrawal of authorization in the event of an infringement of the rules of the Alcohol Code to assume that the minimum withdrawal period is set at two weeks, not one week.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to determine in the law that non-interventionary dot allocation is a decision in the administrative sense’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2201	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that outlets for alcohol donated by minors lose the sale period for up to three months and in addition fines are imposed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2216	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government in a new regulatory provision for standard rules for the withdrawal of authorisation in the event of an infringement of the rules of the Alcohol Code to take into account the following changes in the reaction pattern in relation to the proposal proposed in the proposal: – Eight dots shall be given in the event of a donation of a visibly affected person, not six. – Infringement of the advertising provisions, removal of alcohol from the tipping point and consumption of alcoholic beverages by guests, two dots are applied, not one.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2240	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in a new regulatory provision for standard rules for the withdrawal of authorization in the event of an infringement of the rules of the alcohol law to take into account the following changes in the reaction pattern in relation to the proposal promoted in the proposition: – The termination period for spot allocation is set at three years, not two.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2259	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in a new regulatory provision for standard rules for the withdrawal of authorization in the event of an infringement of the rules of the Alcohol Code to take into account the following changes in the reaction pattern in relation to the proposal proposed in the proposal: – The maximum number of dots before the withdrawal of the authorization shall be eight, not twelve.’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2310	The central party has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 84 votes were cast in favour and 7 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.44.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2319	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2324	I did not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2329	Here are the different explanations of vote. The President proposes that we vote again. The voting boards now showed that 91 votes were cast in favour and 7 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.46.04]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2338	President! I voted wrong. I voted against, but I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2343	The figures are then adjusted according to the votes of the representative, Fredriksen. The Committee's position was thus approved by 92 votes to 6 with 92 votes in favour. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2357	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2416	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2426	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2429	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-05-21.ana.ud1198e2494	Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the President concludes today's meeting, she will wish the representatives – after they have done work in their constituencys and elsewhere tomorrow – a really good Pentecost and a reminder that the next plenary session is on Tuesday 26 May at 6.30 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened.
