ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e26	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e29	On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Liv Signe Navarsete, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I propose to ban certain types of employment contracts in Norwegian registered companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e34	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e37	I would like to make three representative proposals. One representative proposal, on behalf of Kirsti Bergstø and myself, is to give every municipality where there is no wine monopoly, an opportunity to do so. The second proposal, on behalf of Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, is to ensure that the new E18 meets the climate obligations that apply. The third draft representative, on behalf of myself, is about setting a separate climate target for the new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e60	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Elisabeth Aspaker and Tord Lien will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first question, which is from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e67	My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The war in Syria contributes to the worst refugee disaster the world has seen since World War II. The neighbouring countries accept very many. Norway contributes primarily through assistance in the neighbourhoods. We also accept some refugees. The problem is that international aid organisations need to constantly use resources to ask for more money. After many years, it is difficult to mobilise will for funding from donor countries. The neighbouring countries also ask Norwegian politicians how many we really welcome. I do not know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also got this question himself. Norway cannot solve this refugee disaster, but if we accept some more, we can help people in the refugee camps to see the hope that there is a way out via legal channels, and not by paying human traffickers and embarking on a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. This is why the UNHCR is asking many countries to accept more refugees. How many Syrian refugees have UNHCR asked Norway to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e80	First, thank the Huitfeldt representative for addressing the whole issue of Syria and the situation in neighbouring countries. We are facing the worst refugee disaster since World War II, and it is a humanitarian disaster both inside Syria and in neighbouring countries. It is the case that the UN appeals for assistance to Syria and neighbouring countries are met by 16 pst. and 17 pst. That is why it has been essential for the government to increase humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries in order to help refugees where they are now. And there is a need for a lot more resources to be able to help, for example. to avoid a lost generation of children in school. The government has worked along the humanitarian line, along the long-term development line, and for peace and reconciliation. Syria was an intermediate country four years ago. Today, the country is a humanitarian disaster. The work of Staffan de Mistura, the special mission to the United Nations, to create peace and a collective government that is inclusive in Syria, is absolutely crucial. With regard to the issue of Norwegian refugee and asylum policy, the representative Huitfeldt is fully aware of the constitutional responsibility associated with that issue. What I can say is that when it comes to accepting Syrian quota refugees through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Norway is one of the countries in Europe that receives the most. And when we take the population into account, we might be number one, two, or three. It shows that we have made it through the 1500 that the Stortinget has decided for the current year, and Guterres, the High Commissioner, has also valued this in conversations that I have had with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e91	This was a very good description of the terrible situation in Syria and in the refugee camps, and I will give my support to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his work in this area. I am fully aware that in the case of refugees, the constitutional responsibility lies with the Minister of Justice, but I also know that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is attending very many meetings in the UN and with other actors. My question is: has Norway been asked to accept a specific number of Syrian refugees? And in what meetings and in what context has this issue been raised by the international community with the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e100	I think that when the representative Huitfeldt determines that she is fully aware of the constitutional responsibilities, and even after it chooses to ask questions that obviously fall within another department, it's a little strange. I am responsible for humanitarian matters, for development policy, but this is also very linked to the flow of refugees. I have had several conversations with António Guterres, who is the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and what I can recall from those talks is that we have received recognition for the job that Norway has done, not least by being one of the leading humanitarian donors, and that we are one of the countries of Europe that receives the most quota refugees from Syria through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e107	It opens for follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e110	I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is reluctant to answer if he has received a request from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway should accept a specific number. I hope it sets the groundwork for the Prime Minister tomorrow. We hear that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance argue that there is a contradiction between helping the world and accepting refugees here at home. Well, in that case, that's an argument against what the government did last year, where they increased the number of Syrian quota refugees by 500. We know that there's no contradiction. On the contrary, accepting refugees in Norway is an important contribution to neighbouring countries. When it comes to accepting refugees and being a relief for Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, these countries that receive millions, the question is not only how many, but also who are we to accept. That is why it is so wrong to base the government on professional background and education. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, does he think that the best way to relieve neighbouring countries is to accept the refugees that we know are best placed in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e119	It is not that my answers are elusive because Aukrus says they are elusive. On the contrary, I have responded to responsibilities that are not under my control to meet the wishes of the Workers' Party in this questionnaire. If it is that two representatives now deliberately choose to ask questions that are obviously outside my remit, I take note of that. What I said is that High Commissioner Guterres, as a very experienced former prime minister in Portugal, I have had a lot of talks with him, and I think he is also better acquainted with the responsibilities of the Norwegian Government than what obviously others here are, so that when he talks with me, we discuss the development policy components, we also discuss the humanitarian and refugee flows, but if he wants beyond what Norway has contributed to, he will address it to the Ministry of Justice. But what he has said in conversations with me is that he is very pleased that Norway is one of the countries in Europe that receives most quota refugees. I think we should be proud of that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e126	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e129	The refugee disaster is taking us all up. It is a conversational theme and a problem that we address as to how it should be resolved. It was therefore very gratifying to note that the government has decided to send a boat, where Norway with its maritime competence will assist in the situation in the Mediterranean. It is important that Norway contributes to the reduction of human distress and suffering; it is children and families who escape from war, religious persecution, dictatorship and hunger, and many have need of protection. My question is: when this boat is sent, there is likely to be a lot of international attention, where Norway is going to help with the merchant fleet in the situation. Will this boat patrol along the EU's external border, or will there be a boat involved in humanitarian rescue operations towards land, where people are floating on submersible craft?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e137	It is obvious that the Minister of Justice should be in the spontaneous Question Time today. The third issue is also within the competence of the Minister of Justice. However, to the question raised, Norway has now made a tender. We'll get a ship in place in a short time. That ship will enter Triton's operation. Triton's operation is mainly a border protection operation, but in conversations with the Italian Admiral and the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs on Tuesday last week they were pleased that Triton has now surrendered ships from Triton into their operations, which are more focused on key rescue operations. The Icelandic ship, which has been part of the operation, has, among other things: supported the operations of the Coast Guard and the Navy. I also hope that the Norwegian ship, when we get it in place as part of the Triton, will be able to support the crucial rescue operations. The Mediterranean cannot continue to develop into a burial site.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e144	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e147	I understand that one is on the side of the foreign minister I believe is his responsibility, but the disaster we are all witnessing these days cannot have passed the Foreign Minister either, and I believe that he is talking to his colleagues in the government, but also that he is talking to his colleagues in, among other things. EU. The EU had a project, Mare Nostrum, which aimed to save the most possible of those who could not get over the Mediterranean by their own help. I want to repeat and go a little bit deeper into the question from the Tuske Valley. Will the Norwegian boat have as its primary task of saving the lives of the boat refugees, or will he be involved in a border operation to prevent the refugees from reaching Europe? It's an important question to get an answer to, and I actually believe the Norwegian people want an answer to, I think the Norwegian people want us to participate in saving the most possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e154	For the sake of order, that's not what I think is my responsibility, and I would like to stress that, and the representative of Navarsete knows that. Norwegian refugee and asylum seekers’ policies and questions around them should initially be addressed to the Minister of Justice. In the case of Triton, there is also something that falls under the Ministry of Justice. But because this is such a special issue – the Mediterranean is of course also taking me seriously, it is a humanitarian imperative to help – I am answering these questions, and I am also doing so because we have to ask. The ship that we're going to deliver to Triton becomes part of Triton's operation. Triton has also, of course, carried out rescue operations when necessary, but what is agreed between the EU and Italy is that ships from Triton – when we get more ships into Triton, which is absolutely necessary – will also be able to be surrendered to the Italian Navy and coastguard who have rescue operations, so that there is both protection and rescue.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e163	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e166	Last time Europe was in the vicinity of seeing something similar to the disaster we are now seeing – that is, what happened in the Balkans – Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk and Minister of Justice Dørum made an effort together. I think they're busy sharing the credit for the job that was done that time. I hope that is also the starting point for the foreign minister, that he will do a job for which he would like to share the honor with others in the government. But I'm going to make sure that I move within the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We now see a wave of refugees coming through Libya. Human traffickers are exploiting weak people to the extreme, they are laying the groundwork for another type of crime, and they are exploiting the refugee disaster that we now see in the world. Letting people get the opportunity to stay in a good way is not about supporting up during this kind of traffic. What does the Council of State do to help Norway secure the situation in Libya?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e173	Thank you for the question. First, with regard to the complex, Stortinget knows that the Prime Minister will come and explain what is happening in the Mediterranean, the various operations — both humanitarian and development policy — and the other issues that will be raised tomorrow. It's important. So it's very important for me to stress that the UN lacks 80 pst. of the funding they have requested for Syria and neighbouring countries. The refugee crisis we are seeing is, of course, the result of these being terrible – when they have been able to escape in the region. So we have to fill this up. With regard to support for refugees who have landed in Libya: now 250,000 are ready on Libya's coast to cross the Mediterranean, exploited by cynical human traffickers. When I was in Rome, Italy last week, I announced 50 million. kr from the government to exceptional humanitarian measures aimed at Libya and North Africa, inter alia. to help the United Nations manage this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e184	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e187	It's sad to hear the Foreign Minister hide behind formalities when we discuss the greatest refugee disaster after World War II. In 1993, Norway received more than 10,000 refugees from Bosnia. In 1999, we received 6,000 from Kosovo. It went well. Then the Right was involved in this, and so, like all of us – except the Advance Party – it wasn't about helping there or here, but both. It looks as if the Humanitarian Right has abdicated and left all the policies relating to refugees to the Progress Party, and it is not in good hands. The Foreign Minister describes a humanitarian disaster in the camps, and that is probably also a danger of political disasters. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it is just to increase aid into these areas, or does he disagree with the UNHCR and the organisations, who say that it is also necessary to relieve refugees from these neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e196	First this with sadness and hiding behind formalities. There are questions about how the Storting wants these questioning hours to be. Should you ask those who are responsible for this, or not? I have chosen to answer the questions that have come, and had actually met to get a recognition instead. But to the humanitarian and moral pathos that Karin Andersen is using here: we are accepting more refugees and more quota refugees now than has been done for a long time. Maybe you should go a little by yourself and look at what you did when you had the responsibility. To say that it is only about aid — no, Norway is one of the largest humanitarian operators and provides significant funds into Syria and neighbouring countries. We set up a ship, like one of the first countries. We are one of the countries that receives most quota refugees from the area. Coming to the conclusion that we are not doing anything, I believe is highly unreasonable. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] I wonder what are the driving forces behind such reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e205	The number is out. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e211	March this year was the warmest month of March measured on the Earth since we started measurements in 1880. As the responsible State Council in the sector with the largest emissions in Norway, what does the Minister for Oil and Energy think is the cause of these climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e216	I think I know the history of the question that the representative Ropstad is now asking. Let me just make it clear that there is no doubt in my mind that emissions from energy production around the world of CO2 and methane and other gases contribute to the climate change we see around us. Having said that, I am very pleased that the representative Ropstad is asking this question, for this government, along with the new majority, to do more to tackle these climate challenges than any government has ever done before. We allocate concessions to new power deployments at a record pace, and we provide a financial framework for the development of renewable energy to enable renewable energy projects to be realised. We saw this week at the latest that a company I know very well, TronderEnergie, says that they will now invest 120 million. kr in increased renewable power generation and that they can do so because of the changes in the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have got through in the Storting. We are building the power infrastructure of the future today to enable the development of the low-carbon society in the future. We're replacing oil firing. The bourgeois-run Oslo, where the same parties have had a majority for many years, has been the largest in Norway in this area. We've strengthened Enova by over 12 billion. kr, we bet record money on the railways, and we replace fossil energy, diesel and petrol in cars and boats around the country. I very much appreciate that the representative Ropstad asked me this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e229	I really appreciate the answer, because I think the clarity of what causes climate change is important to get the power you need to fight them. And I fully agree: together, we strengthen the climate agreement. We're going to do more than what's done before to reach the two-degree goal. One of the measures we agree on is to shut down polluting gas turbines on oil platforms and replace them with power from land. On Friday, the Council of State presented to the Stortinget a plan for development and operation for the giant platform Johan Sverdrup. It will contribute to enormous value creation in Norway, but it and the platforms around it will also contribute to large emissions. Last year, the Stortinget made an absolute demand that, by 2022 at the latest, the entire power demand of the Utsira Height should be covered by power from land. Why doesn't the Council of State put the absolute requirement of 2022, when one had such a clear majority behind in the Grand Council for that? Instead, the Council of State links it to the next stage of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e238	As the representative of Ropstad points out: The development of the Johan Sverdrup field is a gigantic industrial project. This is the greatest industrial project in Norway since 1984. It will ensure employment, value creation and energy for Europe for decades ahead of us. It is also correct, as the representative Ropstad points out: it has always been the job on the basis that the Johan Sverdrup field should be supplied with power from land from the start of production. It is also the case that the Stortinget has been concerned that not only Johan Sverdrup, but also the three smaller platforms on the Utzira Height, will be supplied with power from land from the time Johan Sverdrup’s second phase comes into production. It is also very clearly addressed in what we have sent to Stortinget now, and it is still the case that those who are going to expand the field, namely Statoil and their licensing partners, work on the basis that start-up will take place in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e245	It opens for follow-up questions – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e248	I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear in the matter of climate change, and as an important Council of State for this field, I believe that the Council of State is concerned that the entire College of Government is working to combat climate change. After Minister of Finance Siv Jensen's statements yesterday, a government council responsible for a department to coordinate government work with sustainable development, is it interesting to ask whether the Council of State feels that the entire government is concerned with the climate problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e253	I am pleased that we have a finance minister who has arranged for us not only to have received more environmentally friendly car charges, but also lower car charges, and who works further along the tracks – together with the Christian People's Party and with the Left. I am pleased that we have a finance minister who sees that it is possible to pursue good and offensive climate policies with instruments other than those that were the general rule of the previous majority, namely bans and charges, but that we achieve more by stimulating Norwegian industry to operate more climate-efficiently and drive more energy-efficiently, which is about facilitating people to make good, profitable climate choices, for example. by means of lower charges on hybrid cars. And I'm glad that we have a finance minister and a government that has put on the table the railway operations of the times.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e258	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e261	There is no doubt that the Minister of Finance expressed doubts as to whether the Progress Party believes that climate change is man-made, but I am pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy today is so clearly confirming that he believes that climate change is man-made, and therefore that strong action is needed. Now we are facing a major debate in the future on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, both internationally and nationally. The next two years will be a very important process, and the oil and energy minister will be an important part of it, but it will not least be the Minister for Climate and Environment who will have to sit in the driver’s seat. The Prime Minister for a while ago said that it is tougher for an Environment Minister to stand up for the climate in a government where someone is not so concerned about it. So my question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is: how will he support the Minister of Climate and Environment in her efforts to put in place strong measures internationally, but also nationally? What is his main contribution to a transition in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e270	As the representative Arnstad himself points out, we are now quite close to an area that is not mainly within my area. But I still want to point out the things that are already happening, or have happened, in the field of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, namely that we have strengthened Enova considerably, with over 12 billion. kr, thanks to the new majority in Stortinget. This is billions that enable Norwegian industry to maintain competitiveness while reducing both greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. We have an offensive effort to facilitate non-quota activity, which I understand was that the Stortingeet, by a large majority, was behind the main effort, i.e. transport, to replace petrol and diesel with gas – but also all fossil energy – with renewable energy. And all of this is my responsibility to facilitate, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e275	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e279	It is serious when number two in the government so obviously sowed doubts about the man-made climate change. We often call them climate skeptics. I think it's a very easy way to talk about it, because this isn't about beliefs or attitudes – it's about knowledge. Denialing the man-made climate change is nothing but being a knowledge-based negotiator. It's kind of the same thing as for example. to accept the presence of a health minister who expressed doubts about the effectiveness of vaccines. It's not just me who thinks that what you mean has something to say. It even says the Prime Minister. She says that it is not that easy to be a climate minister in a government where not everyone is so concerned about the climate. Now we all understand who she was talking about. My simple question to the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is responsible for some of the areas with the greatest emissions, is whether he takes a distance from his party leader, the Minister of Finance, who yesterday replied so in cash yes to questions about whether she sowed doubt about man-made... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e288	State Council Tord Lien has understood the question, and the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e291	I can well confirm that the entire government – and to the very most extent the oil and energy minister – is behind the government's climate policy. I am pleased that we have jointly – not only internally in the government, but also together with our partners here in Stortinget, the new majority – established an offensive climate policy. This is an offensive climate policy that has been widely supported by the trade movement, Norwegian Industry, Energy Norway, NHO, Bellona and a wide range of actors, which I have also understood has received broad support here in Stortinget, among others. the link of Norwegian climate policy to European climate policy. This is a policy that the whole government is in the clear behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e296	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e299	I will not go into what the Minister of Finance thinks and does not mean. Science is very clear. I also record that the revised National Budget for 2014 is written by the Minister of Finance that climate change is very likely to be man-made. It's in box 5.1 on page 96. But I'm going to move on to what's the responsibility of the Council of State. Together, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, and the government have arranged for a lot of renewable energy to be built in Norway, and we are about to have a surplus of renewable energy. The questioner from the Christian People's Party was also concerned that we agree that we should have an electrification of the Utsira height. But we need to use the extra, renewable energy, and if we're going to get it done, we need to use more on the Norwegian base. Then the question is asked: is the Council willing to take a single decision in order to get more electrification on a Norwegian base, or is it just the CO2 tax that is crucial?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e309	Then we got the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e312	Of course, it is right that the representative of Elvesuen points out: offensive policies for increasing renewable power generation in Norway, Sweden and the countries around us allow us to see that we can achieve a surplus of power. Yesterday, the news came that Swedish nuclear power operators are working specifically to shut down nuclear power plants earlier than they had planned in Sweden. It will correct this image somewhat. It is quite right that there is already a very offensive climate policy on Norwegian soil – and I believe we should all be proud of that, because it is shaped in this house – which naturally has the full support of the entire government. It contributes to both carbon capture and storage on a Norwegian base — the only two carbon capture plants in Western Europe — and to facilitating electrification. I thought that the majority in the UK agreed now to give priority to instruments against the non-quota sector, for example. transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e321	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e324	The councils are a fool. I heard what he answered the question from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. He said that CO2 contributes to climate change. Yes, one should be quite ‘breathed in the head’ not to realize that CO2 contributes to climate change, but the key question, which I will therefore ask the Minister of Oil and Energy, is the following: Is the Council of State convinced that the climate change we see today is essentially man - made?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e337	The President is uncertain as to whether 'luring' is a parliamentary expression. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås can reason on that, and while he does, the Council of State Lien can answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e340	I really thought I would begin by saying thank you, but it is possible that it will not be right for the Council of State to thank for an unparliamentary expression. Let me say it like this: I feel like I was clearly also in place. Man-made activity causes climate change. That's the government's position, and I don't feel that's a very big need to explain more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e348	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e351	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. At the seafood fair in Brussels last week, Norway marketed Norwegian seafood with large images of small fishing boats and live fishing weather. Although there have been and are challenges in the fishing industry and the fishing industry, Norwegian fisheries policy has been largely a success story. We have control of our own fishing resources, we have a fishing fleet owned by the fishermen, and we have effective markets for the marketing of fish. Important supports are participating law and fish sales laws. A selection led by Professor Tveterås is now proposing to reverse most of the fisheries policy. The Council of State has from the sideline and with the government declaration in hand announced that all stones should be turned. The signal of state councils, or lack of such a signal, creates uncertainty in the fishing industry and along the coast. Now the State Council's own technical directorate, the Fisheries Directorate, has slaughtered the report of the Tveterås Committee: ‘The significant liberalisation of structural policies recommended by the sample must be expected to have a very significant impact on the economic structure both at sea and at land in the relatively short term. It is a significant weakness that such consequences have been identified and assessed to a small extent’. In addition, there is a risk that major changes to the legislation may challenge ensuring that the fishing resource remains in Norwegian hands. In the light of the advice given and the political signals given, can the Council confirm that the Act of Participation will be in place and that the Government will not allow the fishing industry to own fishing quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e371	The representative, Geir Pollestad, addresses a matter that is out for consultation. The Tweterås committee was set up by the previous government, received its mandate from the previous government, completed its work and delivered its position to me on 16 December last year. So it's quite right, as the representative Pollestad says, that the sample has done a lot of work. They have literally turned all the stones. They have looked at all parts of the entire value chain in the Norwegian fishing industry, and they have made many, many recommendations. Tomorrow the consultation deadline expires, and it is quite right that many opinions have been delivered. One of them has come from the Fisheries Directorate, which has gone through all the proposals made by the Tveterås Committee. It is reassuring for me as a specialist council that my trades union director has done just that. On two points, I've been very clear that we won't make any changes. We're not going to make any changes to the nationality requirement, we're going to risk — I was going to say — the control of fish resources. Secondly – the government has not announced revolution in the fisheries policy, but we have clear wording in the government statement that we should modernise the law, and we must go through and ensure that we have a legislative and regulatory framework for this so important industry, which will enable the industry to be competitive in the future. Everyone – each of the small businesses we have along the coast – is actually in direct competition with the rest of the world, and we can no longer settle for the fact that we are not able to generate large enough profits to make a transition to attract skilled labour. I want this industry to survive in the future, and therefore it is so important that we now make some changes, and I will present the proposals in a big deal before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e380	The Council of State must be the only one working on fisheries policy, which does not have an opinion on these issues. This is not surprising, because until the E24 on 28 January of this year the Council of State said: ‘For the moment, I mean nothing.’ One of the big questions here is whether to open up the fishing industry to own fish quotas. It must be that the government has a thought about it, all the time you have ordered a legal investigation in order to respond to the EEA legal aspects of such a change. One may risk opening the way for foreigners to own fishing vessels in Norway. While the legal point concluded correctly that the nationality requirement is not compromised, there is no guarantee that the ESA and the European Court of Justice will assess the matter in the same way. My question is, can the government guarantee the Stortinget, with 100 pst. security, that an opening to allow industry to have its own allowances will not open up for foreigners to own fishing vessels in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e392	What I can guarantee the Storting and Mr. Pollestad, is that in working on the big message that we're going to present before Christmas, we're going to go through thoroughly and also evaluate the impact of the suggestions we're going to make there. It is quite right that a good and insightful assessment has been made of the legal situation and the scope of action we have in relation to the legislation in force today, and how ownership can be within the fishing fleet. I have many opinions on fisheries policy, but it would be totally wrong for me to start drawing conclusions in the middle of the hearing, before the hearing ends. I don't know about any other state councils that do that, when you have big, important investigations out at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e397	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e400	I note that the Minister for Fisheries cannot guarantee that national ownership will exist on the majority proposal of the Tveterås Committee on the introduction of freely tradable quotas in fisheries without binding on fishing vessels. I have to say, it is rather naive to believe that such a nationality requirement can exist. I would like to say that the grip proposed by the Tveterås Committee here is to privatize fishing. This is totally contrary to today's legal order. About today's legal order, which is fixed in Stortinget several times, it is called among other things. in Section 2 of the Marine Resource Act ‘The wild marine resources are in the community in Norway’. It has been repeated in a number of unanimous committee settings that it is in the community in Norway. My question is then: does the Council agree that if the majority view of the Tveterås Committee on freely tradable fishing quotas is to be introduced, inter alia, Section 2 of the Marine Resource Act is deleted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e407	There is no doubt that fishing resources are owned by the community in Norway. No one in this room has to believe anything but that it means the government today. Of course, this is also a fundamental principle in the work that we are going to do. Then we're going to consider all the input that had to come into the consultation round, all the questions that have now been raised in relation to the investigation that has also been made. But I think we have relied on what is the foremost legal environment in Norway for understanding how the EEA Agreement stands and what kind of action space we have. That's what we have as a starting point when we go on working on the gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e414	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e417	It is a powerful consultation call for the Directorate of Fisheries v/the Director of Fisheries has joined the Tveterås Committee. I am pleased with the guarantee given by the Council of State to the representative Pollestad that the consequences of any changes that the government will make to the Storting before Christmas will have been thoroughly assessed. Then there will also be a natural conclusion for me to draw that when the Fisheries Director says that there have not been good enough assessments of the impact of the proposals put on the table by the Tveterås Committee, the Council of State must also share it, since she gave a guarantee to look better at the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e424	The Fisheries Directorate has provided a very thorough consultation response to the Tveterås Committee. I very much appreciate that, because it is important that my colleges are honest and open in their feedback at the hearing that has been held. When such objections are raised to the proposals that have come from the Tveterås Committee, I, of course, take this very seriously. It is clear that we need to go even further into the depth of this before we consider what kind of proposals it will be relevant for us to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e432	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e435	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Councillor Lien has just been up north and looked at the oil platform Goliath. When the development plan was approved in 2009, it was expected that the platform expansion would cost 31,3 billion. kr. Last fall, the price was adjusted to 46.7 billion. kr – an exceedance of almost 50 pst. – and production has been delayed for two years. There has been relatively little attention around this. This is probably due to the fact that it is the Norwegian State that takes a large part of the extra bill. Eni, Statoil and the state will hardly make money on the expansion. The analysis company Rystad Energy calculated that in order for Goliath to balance the financial balance when the project was adopted at Stortinget in 2009, an oil price of $67 was necessary. Later, there were exceedances. Now Rystad Energy believes that there is a need for an oil price of $95 barrel to balance the economy. It's worth noting that yesterday the oil price was $63 barrel. We know that today’s tax system — through the so-called free income — makes some business-unprofitable fields profitable. The result is a high risk to the country and the community. This may have been a sensible tax system some years ago, but hardly for the future, as there are expectations that it will be a lower oil price. In view of the history of Goliath, is the Council of State comfortable with how today's tax regime makes the community take such a great risk, and also losses, when we see what projects lie ahead of us, especially in the Barents Sea and the Barents Sea south-east?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e450	First, let me say that as far as the development of Goliath is concerned, Norwegian suppliers – even though the platform is assembled in Asia – have already made large deliveries to the platform. It has created jobs and not least technology development along the entire Norwegian coast. The fact that our northernmost region during this year does not have one, but two operating environments for activity on the pedestal has a strong ringing effect in Finnmark. Goliath must produce for at least 15 years. Depending on the resources around it, it can be even longer. The profitability of expansion is also determined by future oil price developments. The State has no financial involvement in Goliath, since the EEA is not represented in the field. As regards the Norwegian Financial Framework, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But I want to say that this is a system that – as I understood the representative Elvesuen agreed – has worked very well. It is a system that balances the socio-economic considerations of the economy with regard to the business economy and is designed to bring it into line with what is socio-economically profitable and what is business-economically profitable — and that all profitable resources on the Norwegian base are developed at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e461	It is not surprising that the Minister of Oil and Energy is satisfied with ring effects and the activities within his own department, but it is also true that we are in a new situation, but one must expect a low oil price. I also believe the Minister agrees that a basic premise for new development must be that it is both socio-economic and business-economic profitable. And now, in addition to what is done with Goliath, the government has a desire to subsidize the Castberg field. It is both fiscal and climate policy a wrong track, and we are shifting even more risk from oil companies to the community, which has to take the bill to expand oil fields that will not be profitable in the future. Even though I think that ESA sees this as contrary to all reason, will I ask the Council of State whether he does not see the same risk as all of us do, when he now goes into the same gallie also for the Johan Castberg field?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e470	I find this a little surrealistic, but I find reason to remember that the big community in 2014 collected 300 billion. kr in revenues from the oil and gas activities. Then it's the right thing that the representative Elvesuen says, that the oil price has fallen significantly, and the revenue cannot be expected this year to be particularly higher than 200 billion. kr. Some would argue that there is a relatively large amount of money. As for the future development of the oil price, neither do I believe nor hope that we will see the 130 dollar barrel again. But I'm also convinced that the world doesn't have access to the energy resources they need, nor is it based on an oil price of $65. So we want to see a growth in the oil price in the years ahead, I'm pretty sure. This will make many of the resources in all parts of the Norwegian base profitable, both for the companies and not least for the state, for many decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e479	It opens for follow-up questions – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e482	My question goes to the Minister of Fisheries, but I want to start by referring to the Council of State, Lien, who believes that lower taxes on Castberg are being made to create growth and jobs in Finnmark. It's in a certain contrast to the Prime Minister's desire for green growth, or green change. This is, of course, direct support for a fossil priority – not a start on green migration. The left is also concerned with growth and jobs, not least in Finnmark, but we will focus on renewable resources. That is why I ask the Minister for Fisheries: does the Minister for Fisheries have no objections or objections to the government's line on issues where the renewable fishing industry is facing other non-renewable industries, as we see on the issue of ice, in Førdefjorden, among others. a total marine industry strongly disagrees with the government’s maritime landfill decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e489	The fishing industry and the petroleum industry are two very important industries for Norway. Both industries generate large economic values and many jobs, and it is a goal for the authorities to ensure good coexistence where different industries can operate. For me, as Minister of Fisheries, it is imperative to ensure that there is good dialogue and that emission requirements are put in place to enable us to combine fisheries and other activities in the future, whether they be mineral or oil and gas industries. The representative is busy with Finnmark. I am also in particular, and I think it is important to see that the county, like other counties, needs a more varied business life, and that there is joy in Finnmark these days for all the important jobs that come – in addition to a fishing industry, which is very important in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e494	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Norwegian tax system on the base consists of a special tax of 51 p.m. on oil production, which is in addition to corporation tax. The revenue is intended to cover the normal return on the special tax on large investments. Now we see that there is a large investment fall on Norwegian pedestals and foreign pedestals. We see that the tax system that we've had gives big revenues to the state, but that income is also based on the fact that there is activity on Norwegian soil, after the good lines that have been drawn up by the previous government, which has been joined by the Stortinget. My question is: what does the Council of State do to ensure that socially profitable investments continue to be made on a Norwegian base, and that this is not hindered by short-term economic criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e505	First of all, I am pleased that the representative Henriksen points out that the Workers' Party is behind the frameworks for oil activity in our marine areas, even during this process. Then I want to say that what is the government and the authorities' responsibility is to establish a framework for the asset. Of course, part of the framework is the fiscal framework, which is not under the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In my department, the responsibility for managing these resources lies primarily with the resources that we have in our production. That's the resources we need to put the most pressure on and manage well, because that's where the time-critical resources will be found. Within this system, the authorities are setting the framework, but commercial actors are making the decision on deployment and operation. This has been a central principle for Norwegian oil management for more than 40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e514	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e518	The representative of Elvesuen raised a very important question: how can we manage the Community's resources in the best possible way? The Petroleum Act is clear that one should manage for socio-economic reasons, one should take environmental considerations, etc. When Stortinget decides, it's up to the Oil and Energy Department and the Oil Directorate to follow up. In 2012, a unanimous decision was taken to electrify the Edvard Grieg field. It shall be prepared and connected when power from land to the height of Utzira comes. In connection with the PUD for the Johan Sverdrup field, which came on a Friday, the Oil Directorate says it will cost billions to get it done. Had it been done earlier, there would have been little expense, while one now suggests that it may cost billions to do what the Storing has decided to do. How is it possible that a decision on which the Stortinget has been so clear — both then and later, repeatedly confirmed in different contexts — will not be followed up in a better way? There may be a large extra bill in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e527	As the representative Ropstad himself points out, the plan for expansion and operation was approved relatively long before I took a seat in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Nevertheless, the device in the Edvard Grieg field is prepared to take power from land. The power demand in the Edvard Grieg field will be covered by the actual power of land, as part of the major solution for all the extensions of the Johan Sverdrup field and the three smaller fields of the Utsira Height, in line with what the Storting has been concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e534	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e537	We're still talking about a green shift from the government. Instead of subsidising the oil industry — or considering doing so — a green shift could be supported. The cooperation agreement between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party states: «A tax deduction is introduced for ENØC home investment.» The State budget for 2015 left this promise and asked Enova instead to support households that would implement energy saving in energy conversion, e.g. install solar cells on the roof. In the state budget setting, the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party wrote that with this we will'stimulate a green shift in private homes through the establishment of a rights-based, unbureaucratic grant scheme'. Now it is reported that on March 30, there are six people who have applied to Enova for sun support – one, two, three, four, five, six people. Does the Council of State believe that the government's commitment to a green shift in Norwegian homes has been a success?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e551	The President is a little uncertain as to whether this is part of the main question, but the President leaves to the Council of State to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e554	As we've already been to several times today, this government and the new majority in the Grand Duchy have strengthened the efforts of Enova by more than 12 billion. kr. That's $12. kr which can be used to make industry more climate-neutral, which can make industry more energy-efficient, which can facilitate the phase-out and reduction of fossil emissions from the transport sector. We have said that if the Ministry of Finance has continued to work with the implementation of the scheme originally described in the cooperation agreement, we have established within my department a system that is less bureaucratic and is rights-based. Then it may have to be more involved and made better known to others than the very most interested ones, who may have been interested in this so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e561	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e564	Should a few do something about problems that it's very difficult to solve, it doesn't keep saying that you're going to make an effort. One would have to make an effort. This is also the case in terms of halting the man-made climate change. We need people who want to make an effort. That's why I'm focusing on the question that the Council of State answered very much earlier in the Questionnaire: Is the Council of State convinced that the climate change we see today is essentially man-made? - Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e569	When I heard the introduction to that question, I came to the point: Will, will, but will not. That characterized a lot of the climate effort of the red-green government. The answer to the question to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is yes. That is why I am pleased that I am part of a government that, together with its partners at Stortinget, has facilitated the efforts of the times on renewable energy, which has facilitated the efforts of the times on trains, which every day facilitates people to buy cars that emit less CO2 per km, at a lower price than was the case under the red-green government. I am working on facilitating the power system of the future, which ensures that these cars can get the energy they need to drive. We are working on phase-out of oil fires in all public buildings, first the country's buildings, and will in the long term also phase out oil fires to ensure that we have renewable energy in sufficient quantities to supply all these energy-using points with renewable and climate-friendly energy. Was that clear enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e579	That was clear. Thank you for that – thank you for finally answering the question. One who was clear in the opposite direction of the Council of State was the party leader of the Council of State, Finance Minister Siv Jensen. Today – i.e. it was probably strictly taken yesterday – she came out of the closet as a climate skeptic, and it is important to know whether the Minister for Oil and Energy believes that the Minister of Finance’s lack of faith in man-made climate change will affect her willingness to grant subsidies to the oil industry, so that oil that would otherwise be at the bottom of the sea is pumped instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e586	Here there are so many questions about faith and doubt that it is almost like this that I would like to say that we should call Widvey State Council to come and answer some of this. But I want to say that I am happy that we have a finance minister who has less faith in charging and the ban line than was the case under the red-green government. I am pleased that I have a finance minister who – as part of the government collective – facilitates an offensive commitment to climate and renewable energy and facilitates the phasing out of the use of fossil energy sources in Norway. If the representative Eidsvoll Holmås now points to the Castberg solution, which we are going to discuss with ESA, it is not at all about getting the resources on the Castberg field produced. They're going to be produced anyway. It is about ensuring that they are landed to ensure optimal value creation and maximum ring-effects in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e596	Follow-up questions are given – first Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e599	The government writes on its web pages that global climate and environmental challenges require “a transition to products and services that have a significantly less negative impact on climate and environment than today” and that government promises a green shift. Based on what the Minister has said earlier today, I understand that he also recognises that fossil energy sources are a problem for the environment and the climate. In view of the seriousness of the climate communication and the government's own objectives, it will be natural, in the light of the SV's view, that the government prioritises money and efforts on new and renewable industries. Can the Minister for Oil and Energy guarantee that the government will not reduce the taxes on oil industry in order to develop more oil activities in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e606	I now note that there is a full crack between the red-green batches, which for just a few years ago combined a kerosene message that pointed out that predictable and stable framework conditions – and I assume that they also applied to the fiscal framework conditions – were fundamental to the development of this industry. I have heard in eight minutes from the Workers' Party that it is now expected that we will reduce the taxes on the base, while I now hear from SV that they will have a guarantee that we will not lower the taxes on the base. Both questions should have been addressed to the Minister of Finance, but stability and predictability in the framework conditions of the authorities are crucial for this industry to continue to be a significant part of the value creation and employment in the country and of the financing of the Norwegian welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e611	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e614	I think it's a little sad that you have to use a substantial part of the question-tretime to clarify whether part of the government believes that it's the man-made climate change that's the basis for what we're seeing around us now. It is both a sad and a significant political matter, of course, when an informed society can initially allow itself to take that kind of discussion. I am going to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy a specific question, because what is his constitutional responsibility is related to the oil and gas sector. In the future, they also need to reduce their emissions. What does the Council of State think is going to happen in concrete terms, and what measures does the Minister for Oil and Energy think are relevant to reducing emissions from the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e621	I had the impression that the Workers' Party had given its support to the work done by the government to work with the EU in developing Norwegian and European climate policies. Europe is in many ways a priority region in the issues of both climate and renewable energy. I am pleased that at least there has been broad support for Stortinget. In that work, what happens on the base is entirely subject to the obligation of allowances. In addition to the quota obligation, we have now over several decades had the toughest fiscal framework to reduce CO2 emissions from some industry anywhere in the world. We're gonna be proud of that. This means that the CO2 emissions from the Norwegian base are falling, which means that we get electrification – power from land solutions – which means that we get carbon capture and storage on the Norwegian base, and it also means that the very most CO2-intensive resources are lying on the seabed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e635	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e638	As far as climate change is concerned, I think it is worse to know and not act than to doubt and actually implement and act, as we are now actually doing with a new majority on the Stortinget, and it is important that this is reinforced. So to what's going on in the oil and gas sector: It's true, as the Council of State pointed out earlier, that of course we've had huge revenues from the petroleum sector over many years. Also now, if you look at the sector as a whole, it's huge revenues. But the question is how to set up the tax system when to bring in new fields. I'm not going to go into a detailed discussion about free incomes and other support schemes, but I'm going to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree that it has to be a precondition – and that we have to set up the tax system like that – that new fields are profitable both socio-economic and business-economic?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e645	Let me first say thank you to Ola Elvestuen for the great support I experience that the government has from the Christian People's Party and the Left. If I had said ‘not least left’, I would have had trouble, so it was good I didn’t. I believe that we have also put together the fiscal framework on a Norwegian base in such a way that there should be a balance between the business economy and the social economy in that system. This means that decisions are not to be made on the base that are purely business-economically profitable and that are not socio-economically profitable — and of course not the opposite. That system, I believe, has evolved over many decades on the base. The Minister of Finance must answer any questions about how it might develop in the future. However, I believe that the fiscal framework on the Norwegian base works well – even in view of what Elvestuen is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e652	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e655	Let me just first clarify one thing that the Council of State said, that we had taken the floor to lower taxes on Norwegian pedestal. So the Workers' Party has not done that. But that's not what my question is. On Friday, a major matter came through the State Council to Stortinget, namely the plan for the development and operation of Johan Sverdrup, a gigantic industrial project. The Minister of Oil and Energy has well used words as a ‘wonderful project’ several times about this industrial project. The project is associated with significant expectations of Norway as a whole. There have been major questions about the societal impact and the proportion of Norwegian value creation related to Norwegian-socket expansions. Johan Sverdrup, who we now have for treatment in Stortinget, is no exception. I have a great deal of understanding for that. New figures show that unemployment has grown by 56 pst. in Stavanger in the last year, and this is caused to a great extent by a decline in the petroleum industry. So far, about 15,000 jobs have disappeared in the sector. Many are licensed or still living on final packages, and many face an uncertain future. Last week I visited Wasco in Mo in Rana. I visited Kværner Stord. Both companies depend entirely on contracts awarded through the development of Johan Sverdrup to secure the future and the basis for new knowledge, new development and secure prospects for the people associated there. Of course, the way in which the contract strategy is conducted and how it is carried out are of the utmost importance. Statoil as the operator and partners have a sovereign entrance to choose how they want to – let's say – end the contract process, but there is also a political dimension in this. Therefore, my question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: How will the Minister of Oil and Energy follow the further process related to the contracts of Johan Sverdrup, precisely to ensure the maximum share of value creation in Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e667	I'm happy for every opportunity I get to talk about Johan Sverdrup. Johan Sverdrup is the largest development project in Norwegian history since the mid-1980s. It will employ several thousand people during the exploitation phase, and it will create tens of thousands of annual works in Norway and abroad during the time it is under development. So, of course, I am aware that parts of the Norwegian supplier industry have challenges, and that is why it is very gratifying to see that in this expansion – unlike five of the last five major expansions under the red-green government, I just remember – large contracts have already been awarded to Norwegian industry. It is such that Aibel shall build the deck to the housing platform, Kværner Verdal shall provide the steel chassis, and Aker Solution shall make a significant part of the future procurement and engineering. These are major contracts, which have already been won by Norwegian suppliers. I am sure that many of the Norwegian suppliers are competitive when it comes to winning more contracts on Johan Sverdrup, and there is no way to hide that the value creation in Norway is getting higher the longer in the contract structures of the Norwegian suppliers. At the same time, what was also fixed very clearly and as a good principle is that commercial decisions on Norwegian pedestal are not actually made in the Ministry of Oil and Energy; they are taken by the commercial actors out there. In fact, the competitiveness of the Norwegian supplier industry is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, but the responsibility for the owners and managers of the Norwegian supplier industry. But as I said, we have seen that the supplier industry is competitive again and has won large contracts on Sverdrup, and it will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e676	There is no doubt that commercial decisions will form the basis for those contracts. I have not suggested anything else either. But of a total investment in the first phase of 117 billion. kr, it is clear that high expectations for the ring effects have been created, not least for Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian knowledge and Norwegian prospects. And there's no doubt that we're now inside a time-critical window. The Norwegian oil service industry has done a lot to reduce costs, and oil companies have also focused on this. Then it is in a way good to record that the Minister of Oil and Energy is happy to talk about Johan Sverdrup, but I am more concerned to know what the Minister of Oil and Energy thinks about the possibilities for the Norwegian oil service industry in connection with the window in the contracts up to Johan Sverdrup. Will the Council of State also have a significant commitment to enable Norwegian oil service industries to participate in the great value creation so far? Then have Norwegian contracts and a share of 117 billion. kr... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e683	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e686	I think it's important that we don't now have black paints. In 2013 we had behind us twelve years of continuous, partly very high growth in the investment rate on Norwegian pedestal. Looking at the activity level of Norwegian pedestal this year and to next year, it is expected to be significantly lower than in 2013, yet much higher than it was just a few years before 2013. So it's like many of the earlier questions in this questioning, that the oil price has gone down. Profitability in projects is more demanding, and therefore it is essential that both operators and suppliers on a Norwegian base have more control over the cost base than in the strong growth period up to 2013–2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e693	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Per Rune Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e696	Since 1971, this has meant that we should have a Norwegian supplier industry, be an important part of Norwegian oil policy and the principles of oil policy. Now we heard that the Council of State disclaims responsibility for the supplier industry – this is not OED’s responsibility, this is the industry’s own responsibility. The industry has to be competitive, but what we've seen on a lot of occasions is that yards, especially in Asia, get the commissions on cheap tenders, but the result is very costly anyway, because of delays and extra costs that come to the top. This is also reflected in a report that the OED itself ordered from Kaupang in cooperation with, among others. LO and Norwegian Industry, which show that the value creation is going to be very bad with Asian participation. My question is, what does the Council of State actually do to make Sverdrup a Norwegian, not an Asian, industrial venture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e703	Now there were a lot of statements in a short time. Let me start by saying that I don't think I have at any time sub-communicated, at least not knowingly and willfully, the great importance of the interaction between the supplier industry and Norwegian base operators for the success that the activity on Norwegian base has evolved into. I think it's a great awareness of both operators and suppliers as well. What I said was that the responsibility for the competitiveness of the supplier industry lies with the supplier industry. Then I just want to comment on what the representative says about Asia. That's right, and I also said in my reply to the Aasland representative, that if the big contracts go to Norway, it's going to be more valuable than if they're going to be in Asia. There is nothing to hide. But it sounded like it was all or nothing. In fact, it's in size, roughly simplified, 60 pst. in the case of contracts in Norway versus 40 pst. in the case of Norwegian contracts in Asia.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e710	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e713	The actual time horizon for Johan Sverdrup shows in many ways in itself the need for stability and long-termity and also the need for predictability in the case of Norwegian oil policy. Now, in a previous response, the Council of State poised that there were different positions on the red-green side when it came to oil and energy policy. But I have to say that there seems to be a certain distance between the Left and the Advance Party as well – and not only in terms of taxation and the socket, but also in terms of some other things. The Prime Minister quoted in his speech a White House Chief of Staff as saying that crises are an opportunity one should not miss. I don't know if those who lose their job in these days feel that way. I think that they look with concern at what is happening, and it is the supplier industry that will be the critical point for the years to come. My question is: What tools do the Council of State have to ensure Norwegian employment and competitiveness in the Norwegian supply industry for years to come, for example. in connection with Johan Sverdrup?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e720	I am pleased that the representative Arnstad from Nord-Trøndelag asks this question. One of the most important industrial companies in her state, Kværner Verdal, has already won a very important contract on just Johan Sverdrup. I would like to remind you that for the long-term employment effect in Norwegian oil and gas production, profitability is of course absolutely necessary. Therefore, companies – whether they are operators or suppliers – need to have control of costs. The level of development we saw in 2013 and 2014 is not sustainable in the long term. Then I would like to say that this government has strengthened its interaction with industry through the PETROMAKS and DEMO programmes in the Research Council. It also helps to strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian supplier industry. We know that the more sophisticated solutions are chosen, the better opportunities are for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e729	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e733	Johan Sverdrup is a huge project that will last for many years, and there is no doubt about profitability, even with an expected low oil price. But part of Johan Sverdrup is the electrification. One has been a little bit concerned about it also earlier, from the Christian People's Party, about Edvard Grieg and the platform there. The question is not whether it can be electrified, but as of today the platform is not prepared for an electrification, and it will cost several billion kroner in investments to get this in place. Then my question becomes: is the Council satisfied with how the operator has followed up the clear decision of the Storting that we should have an area electrification?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e738	As I said to the representative Ropstad instead, the plan for the expansion and operation of the Edvard Grieg field is approved by the red-green government. I have no reason to believe that the operator who has not followed up what has been given by directives from my department during the previous period. But it's a decision that's been made before my time. So it's like all three smaller platforms on the Utsira Height will receive power from land when Johan Sverdrup Phase 2 comes into production. It's based on 2022, which everyone works after, and which the Storting has been busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e745	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e757	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will show in this context the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Prime Minister. Question 3, from the representative Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 9, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister of Knowledge, will be taken up by Mr Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e774	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e782	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister, who is answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In a speech on April 7, 2015, at the 25th anniversary of the Scandinavian Star murder fire, the Prime Minister said that she commends the Stortinget for having launched an investigation. This is a proposal for a representative, cf. Document 8:63 S [[2014-2015]] Does the Prime Minister’s statement of 7 April indicate that the government is in favour of scrutiny and will contribute to cross-political cooperation between the government and the magnificence in this regard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e791	The fire at "Scandinavian Star" 25 years ago is a disaster that still affects us very much. The disaster led to the death of 159 people. 24 of them were children. The fact that there are still unanswered questions in the matter, means that the grief and the lack are heavier to bear for all those affected by the disaster. This was also expressed by the Prime Minister on the Memorial Mark on 7 April. It is important that society can respond for the sake of the survivors and for the sake of the survivors. There were 482 people on board the "Scandinavian Star" that night the fire broke out. All those who struggle with the memories of the disaster also need to know. On 27 June 2014, it was clarified that the Advocate General agreed to re-examine the fire at ‘Scandinavian Star’. The decision came after the police officer in Oslo had requested this. It's this investigation that will provide the most important answers. For the rest of the family, I hope the investigation will bring the matter to the fore. Political judgements underpinning the decisions of the Oslo Police and the Riksadvokat are still under investigation. As regards the representative of Bøhler's question, I would like to stress that Stortinget is of course free to assess the need for an investigation in addition to the investigation that is now under way. The Prime Minister has given tribute to the initiative. We understand that the proposal for a representative that has been promoted is primarily aimed at assessing whether the information that Stortinget has previously received on the fire on «Scandinavian Star» has been correct and adequate, as well as the involvement of public authorities in the matter. The proposal under consideration shows that it is bounded by the investigation of possible criminal offences. If such an investigation initiated by the Stortinget can provide more answers than will be highlighted by an investigation, the government will attend to this work and give its support to the initiative. The examination of the proposal for an investigation has not been completed within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it has been told to me, and there is no adjustment at present. It is not natural for the government to have views on how to design a parliamentary inquiry as to the mandate and relationship with the ongoing investigation, in addition to what the Prime Minister has already stated. If the Storting wants assistance from the government in carrying out an investigation, if that is the conclusion, we will, of course, come back to it when such a request may be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e806	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is quite right, as it is pointed out, that this affects many people, and the survivors and relatives who were present during the memorial 25 years later were happy when the Prime Minister gave it the honor, because they have worked very long for an examination. I also perceive that the signals from the Minister for Foreign Affairs came with me now are in the same street. The background is the interpellation I had with the Minister of Justice in November 2013 here in Stortinget. The Council of State recommended that the Stortinget should assess a parliamentary committee of inquiry, where, among other things: would look at the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned, who was dealing with information for the Stortinget. Then the Minister of Justice said you should first look at what the police decided. Then, after the first investigation, the police decided that a new investigation and review of very fundamental points would be initiated. The dramatic thing is that 25 years have gone by without being willing to go into this. So I want to ask if the Minister for Foreign Affairs will assess the seriousness of the 25 years spent on realizing this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e815	As I also said in my reply, the ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident was a terrible tragedy, and there is still uncertainty about what caused this disaster. The fact that the police through the National Attorneyate have chosen to resume investigations also shows the level of seriousness, and the fact that a parliamentary inquiry is now being discussed in addition, I also believe that the matter is serious. Then Stortinget himself has to discuss any arrangements on this. That's the biggest thing's control function in relation to the government coming up here. But the Prime Minister chose to give homage to the initiative taken by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e820	I would also like to thank you for that answer. It is true that the Storting built its treatment at the time the police have now found out that there was no basis, i.e. that a perpetrator was appointed, that one would not enter into economic motives, ownership, etc. – you cancel it – and you just wanted to go into the very first part of the fire course. It accepted, one might say, the Storting through a big message that was presented at that time, and there's a very great need for the authorities to look at what has happened over the course of these 25 years, when you've slept in many ways in the hour on such important points. I fully agree that we must stick to the principle of power-sharing, that the Storting must delineate its parliamentary investigation commission in relation to the police investigation, but when this debate arose at the end of January – 21 January in the evening news – those who work with it in the police expressed that the Stortinges investigation would not interfere with the investigation, so they agreed that it was a proper procedure. I am really concerned about thanking the government for maintaining the positive attitude of the Prime Minister, and for allowing us to move on with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e831	I record what the representative, Mr Bøhler, stated that if you were to fall on this with an investigation also in Stortinget, you would limit it to the police investigation. Mandate and other forms of office is far beyond the sphere of competence of the government, and this is what the Grand Government must decide. But on this day, when it was marked 25 years later, the Prime Minister chose to comment on it and say that she welcomed this initiative. The exact year she spent, I guess I said in my answer. The Prime Minister has given tribute to the initiative. Then, through the committee procedure and the ordinary procedure, the Storting will decide how to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e840	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The NRC Focus had a depressing report on the taxi industry on 24 March, highlighting, in particular, women’s insecurity related to the use of taxis. What should and should be a safe and safe transport, turns out not to be too many women. What measures does the Council of State consider that it can put in place to make taxis safe for users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e849	Let me first thank you for the question, because I think the theme is very important. It is safe to take taxis in Norway — regardless of sex, age and where in Norway. In general, it is safe for users to take taxis in Norway. In all of them, most of the cases, this is something that goes without a problem, and that's what it has to be. The market economy consists of self-employed people, and it is up to the industry itself to provide transport that is both safe and secure for the users. The dross are part of a publicly available transport service, and it is therefore a task for the authorities to establish framework conditions that are appropriate to ensure the safety of users, so that the authorities also contribute here. Anyone who drives a taxi or a bus must have a ticket issued by the police. In order to obtain a driving licence, he must have such a reputation that the police do not find him unfit to work as a driver in the professional transport of persons. The police assessment is based on a review of police records. The fact that a person has a satisfactory reputation at a given time is no guarantee that one will behave properly in the future. It's unfortunately some of the risks we have in a society, but nevertheless, a driver's ticket is a kind of premedication to make sure that you don't let anyone go as a driver. The police may withdraw the driving licence if there are offences of importance in order to be able to hold a driving licence, so that it is possible to reverse an authorisation granted. A driving licence may also be seized if the holder is suspected of criminal offences which may be essential to the right to obtain or hold a driving licence for any reason. What came out of the NRK program is that after a taxi centre had called an alarm, it had been discovered the use of falsified driver's vouchers. I think that's probably a bigger security problem. I would therefore like to see this legislation reviewed, to see if there are any improvements in the control and follow-up of driving passes. This work will take place with the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e864	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the Council when he says that it should be safe for everyone to use a taxi, and that in those very, most cases, it is going well. But in Oslo, there's as much as 20 pst. by girls who take taxis, who experience harassment, unwanted behaviour. That is why I think it is a problem that needs to be taken seriously. I'm glad the Council of State is going to carry out a review. The problem is so big that I want to ask the Council of State: Have there been any contact with the industry now? The industry is calling for action and the Consumer Council is calling for action. In addition to that review, is there any other measure taken by the Council of State that can be put into action to prevent women in particular from experiencing such behaviour?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e871	Yes, we have and have long had a good dialogue with the taxi industry, precisely because we are also discussing regulation of the industry as a whole. The point of passenger safety and safety is an important part of this, so we get a lot of input. For example, one of the themes that has been discussed is: to facilitate more video surveillance in the taxis. There is something that some taxi drivers have requested. We know that in some taxi companies they have tried to use it, but they have been stopped by the Data Protection Authority. I've told the NRK that I think this is interesting to go on to see what we can do to facilitate. If you are monitored in the taxi, you will also be able to prove bad behaviour, harassment or any criminal offences committed by the driver. However, this must be weighed against the protection of privacy of both the driver and the passenger. These are the considerations we now need to assess in order to see what is the best way to ensure passenger rights and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e876	Among other things, the Norwegian Taxi Association wants greater driver control in order to be more able to hatch unwanted drivers. Now it's just that you can withdraw the permission, which is the means. There are quite strict requirements to be able to withdraw permission and driver's voucher. We see that a lot of rape cases are being committed – unfortunately. But are not the proposals made by the Taxi Association, that there should be greater control over drivers, a proposal that we should go further?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e881	Well, absolutely, I think it's important not only to consider, but also to implement a little bit of the process that we have now, look at regulation of the industry in general and how to make it easier to unlock those drivers that obviously have nothing to do in the industry, either because they pose a safety challenge for the passenger, or because they cheat in the way they run the system. Focusing on the role of centres — rather than individual permits — is part of the drug use. But there's also a back page that makes us want to make sure that we make the right choices before we implement it. It is also natural that the industry should listen well – and that we hear what the Storting has to say on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e897	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e904	The question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘The Ministry of Transport has adopted a real reduction in air charges in 2015. According to Avinor’s 2014 annual report, revenue from duty-free sales is strongly increasing and is now at the level of revenue from airport charges. As a result, duty-free sales subsidise climate-affecting air travel. The Labour Party decided at the national meeting to continue the scheme, but wanted the Vinmonopolet to take over. Does the Council of State consider that maintaining areas of transport based on subsidies from the sale of cheap spirits and sugar is a sensible and long-term policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e913	Let me first underline that Avinor and the airlines are different companies. Avinor is the state company operating the airports. They have a fairly robust and good economy. The airlines, which operate the aircraft and give the passengers the travel experience themselves, are companies that we can now read about going with a huge deficit, and therefore it is important that we – as the fees were collected here – distinguish between the revenues that Avinor has and the costs that we want to impose on the airlines. So it's also important that we look at Avinor's income. In 2014, they had total revenues of about 10 billion. NOK – half of this was tax revenue, half was so-called commercial income. Of the commercial revenues, approximately Half of them, that's about 2.5 billion. kr, income from tax-free sales. It concerns perfume, cosmetics, chocolate, tobacco and alcohol. In a chronicle by the head of Avinor, it was said that approx. 1 to 1.2 billion of the income relating to alcohol. So it's approx. 10-15 pst. of Avinor’s income arising from the sale of alcohol. Then we have to discuss how we are going to finance the airport structure that we want to have in Norway. There may be different parties having different desires, but generally one wants to have airports throughout the country, not least in the North West and in North Norway. I myself have been in Lofoten for two days now, the Vesterålen and Salten. Airports are an important part of the everyday journey for some people, not least business and government. That's why I think it's reasonable and desirable to have airports with the kind of structure that we have today. Then the question is, how do we finance this? We have an established system of duty-free sales, where the income from alcohol is about the same economy with which we are currently subsidising the runway aerodrome network. We could, of course, remove this, and then grant that money over the state budget. I would warn you against that, because then there would be more money we would have had to re-prioritize in the state budget, which would have led to the maintenance effort that we now have on the railways and on the road, which is important for the collective effort, being reduced, and we would have to continue to fall. So I want us to go on with the system that we have, because as long as we're allowed to take back allowances, that's alcohol without taxing it with excise duties, we know that if we put down tax-free sales in Norway, it just means that one is moving sales abroad. So with that arrangement, the state gets a net loss, and that means we want to lose income, we want to lose jobs, and we want to lose airports. For me, it's important that we have a good travel offer across the country, but I clearly see the principle side that it doesn't make sense that someone says that a user is using tax-free revenue to finance airports. But it's part of a whole that I think works well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e924	The alcohol policy side of this question is probably a lot of opinions about, but we're going to leave it here. The point is that because, among other things, The airport charges now no longer later to reflect Avinor’s costs, the tax-free system for both spirits and sugar, as the Council of State has just confirmed – as it sounds – amounts to at least 25 pst. a basis for maintaining, indirectly, very low prices for airlines at the expense of other modes of travel, for which there is a broad consensus in the Storting to be strengthened, namely trains and other things. The fundamental question is: will the Council consider using similar mechanisms, such as tax-free sales, to promote other and more environmentally friendly modes of travel, such as: train or bicycle?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e931	What is special about aviation is that one in part of the transport chains is moving in international airspace, just as international ferries do. When one is in international territory, no one has tax rights. That is what makes it possible to buy goods free of tax. So one approaches it by instead of the fact that the actual trade takes place in the middle of the spring – it does with ferries, but on aircraft it would create an inappropriate situation, I think many would say – has added it to airports after one has come out of a country's passport area. That's the basis for that. One will not be able to find similar ways that will make it logical to finance bicycle paths, trains, etc., because that is a constant part of a country's legal domain. I think one can problem this very much, but it eventually ends up with – one has a lot of money here – that if one does not have tax-free sales in Norway, moves a tax-free sale out of the country, or one has to do it like a doer for alcohol policy reasons: close the limits completely for all imports of alcohol, and that would mean that every bottle of beer from Sweden had to be customs dutyed. It would be a very little suitable way to close the boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e942	I think there is quite a broad consensus that we will not get the same turnover on alcohol if travellers have to buy it abroad, as you get with the giant tax-free sales machines installed inside Norwegian airports. So here it's probably a very big gap. At the same time, it is essential to note that the Progress Party wishes to: ‘Alcohol and tobacco legislation should be liberalised, the level of fees reduced and the wine monopoly system terminated.’ This is likely to increase the turnover of alcohol in general in the country and weaken tax-free sales. How does the Council of States in the long term see compensating for such a policy, as long as he now argues that tax-free sales are such an essential part of Avinor's income base?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e952	If we had done that, it would have had some effects. However, this means that if the total income of the state had also been increased, I would claim, and then the loss of income could also be financed – in a way. What has been the problem with the proposals that have been launched is that one has moved the alcohol sales out of the country, and so both the state and the airport director are missing those revenues. It is now that most people remember that there have not been so many decades since alcohol was traded abroad before coming to Norway. It meant that you had a lot more weight on board the plane, a lot less space and a little more chaos. So I would like to stress, as a little bit of the representative's question is about how we are going to invest in public transport, how we are going to invest in rail and bicycle routes, that this government within the state budget has increased the appropriations for the Railway Agency by about 50 pst. after the government change. We need to build 30 pst. more cycle path in 2015 than in 2014, and in addition we have just allocated 95 million. kr for bicycle measures around the country. So I mean we get a good, balanced bet, and very much above the state budget, but because exactly the airports are tax-free a small, but an important part of the bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e965	The question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: ‘The species database is the government’s supplier of objective assessments of the state of Norwegian species. 2 March d.o.b. the Species database provides preliminary root list assessments in which the wolf is considered to be critically threatened by extinction in Norway, while the gaupa ranges from vulnerable to highly threatened. Does the government have a different opinion from the Art Database on how large these populations must be to be viable, or will the Council of State implement a policy that takes the consequences of this information and increases the populations of wolves and gloats?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e974	Both nationally and globally, there is a clear objective of halting the eradication of species. The Red List of Species Database assesses which species are at risk of extinction in Norway, and this is very important and objective knowledge, which I of course use in assessments of the status of species. As the representative Hansson is well known, predatory wildlife management in Norway is regulated by the Stortinget, not least by the size of the large predators’ populations. In the 2011 rapprochement, a total accumulation continued the current stocking targets for gaupe, yew and wolf, while the target for bear was slightly changed. The size has also said that stocks should be managed as close to the stock targets as possible, which means that there is little room for action to deliberately increase or reduce stocks beyond the targets set. In view of the two-part objective of caring for both predatory and grazing animals, the stock targets for large predators are low in Norway, based on purely professional considerations. The targets set by the Storting through the 2004 and 2011 wild game comparisons leave the largest predators at risk on the Norwegian red list for species. The size has also chosen to assess the viability of the population of predators, on the basis that we have common populations with our neighbouring countries. I think that makes sense. In the case of wolves, I have informed Stortinget that during the course of the year the government will present in an appropriate manner a case on new stocking targets for the wolf and the wolf zone. The status of the wolf on the red list will be an important part of the knowledge base we include in the evaluation of a future wolf management. Like the representative Hansson, I have seen that gaupe in the Art Database's preliminary Red List assessments are considered more threatened than in the previous Red List in 2010. The main reason for this is the negative population development in Sweden. The Norwegian population is now well below the target population of 65-year-old-born young coal of gaupe. In line with the prey agreement, the stock shall be as close to the stock target as possible. That means that when we're above the target, the population has to fall, and when we're below the target, the population has to rise. When we get new stocks of gloat from Rovdata in the middle of May, I'll assess whether there's a need to look at the size of the hunting quotas. In that case, I will ask the authorities to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e987	I then have to interpret the Council of State's response to that, that if she is confirmed that the population of gaupes is well below the adopted population, she must ask for the quota to be reduced. It is important to note that the hunting quotas for gaupe in the last few years have been at about the same level as they were under the eradication attempt on gaupe in the 1800s. I would like a confirmation that the Council of State will go in to increase the gloat population if the number is now below the agreed level. So I want to hear the political opinion of the Council of State on the second question: is it right, in the opinion of the Council of State – not just in the opinion of the Storting – to manage the wolf in Norway on the brink of extinction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e994	I think it's important for any government council to deal with what the Storting decides. The size of the game has been quite clear in its decisions about the game of robbers. That's what's governing what the government and the state council are following up. When it comes to the question of gauze, I referred in my article what the predatory game agreement has set out on stock goals, and it is important that we are as close to that stock goal as possible. If it turns out – as it may seem when we see the figures in May – that we are under pressure, I will consider asking the administration in the predatory game field to take account of Gaupa’s population development in future decisions and to deal with it. Once the Storting has adopted clear stocking targets, it has to go both ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1001	I am fully aware of what the Storting has decided on stock targets. I asked if Norway's leading environmental policy-makers have their own opinion on the wolf population in Norway, i.e. a population that, according to the Art Database, is critically threatened by extinction, or – in good Norwegian – on the brink of extinction. So I repeat the question, does the Council of State have its own opinion on whether this is a reasonable situation? A follow-up question: Will the Council of State do the same as Minister for the Environment Åsa Romson of the Greens in Sweden has asked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to investigate how many wolves we need in Norway in order to avoid the threat of extinction?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1006	This Council of State is concerned that both the Council of State and the Government deal with what the Storting decides. We're preparing these things, basing our knowledge on the Art Database, but we know that the rapprochement is so governing what stock objectives we're going to have for the wolf, gloat, yerv and bear in Norway, that it's up to this Council of State to pursue a policy in line with what the Storting has adopted. That means that the Stortinget has put so clear a lead that we in this country should have both grazing animals and we should have large predators. It's going to follow up on this state council too.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1015	‘TV 2 news reported a few weeks ago on users in Oslo with a need for a social alarm, who did not receive this due to payment remarks. This can have very serious consequences for those affected. How can the Council of States ensure that payment statements or similar non-health-related conditions do not prevent the possibility of a social alarm if necessary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1022	The Health and Welfare Act obliges the municipality to ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. The provision corresponds to the corresponding right under the Patient and User Rights Act. This means that everyone has the right to adequate and sound services from the municipality, regardless of their own economy and regardless of any payment remarks. Social alarm is initially not a statutory service, but may be very important to the user. The provision of a social alarm will often take the form of compensation for other statutory services, such as: as a substitute for the necessary inspection visit by the user living at home. In such cases, a social alarm could be a prerequisite for the user to remain at home. When the municipality chooses to use different technological solutions, including a social alarm, to fulfil its legal responsibility towards the user, it is the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the scheme actually works. When a social alarm is connected to a telephone subscription that the user cannot receive due to payment remarks, the municipality must either guarantee the subscription costs, find other technical solutions or grant other types of services to the user, so that the municipality fulfils its responsibility towards the user. As long as the social alarm is not working, the municipality does not fulfil its statutory responsibility either. I believe that the rule of law and liability are very clear, and I think the municipality also acknowledges this. If the municipality does not take this responsibility seriously, it is a matter which undoubtedly belongs to the County Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1031	I am pleased with the clear and clear answers of the Council of State, and I believe that other municipalities should take those signals with them. I am nevertheless a little concerned that such things can happen, and I am concerned about the internal control that even in Norway's largest municipality seems to fail here. What does the Council of State think about the local authority's own quality assurance in these areas? How can it get better?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1036	I do not have information that would indicate that this is a common problem. In this case, we have received information from the Municipality of Oslo that the user was given an Internet-based security line solution during half a day and a half, and this has happened without TV 2. This problem can also be solved in other contexts simply by the fact that it is Nav who orders the telephone subscription and guarantees this. The problem here was related to the transition to digital security alarms, but it was easy to solve. In the case of social alarms in the municipality of Oslo, the user surveys show that 95 pst. is well satisfied or satisfied with the service. There were 100,000 calls last year and 15,000 phone calls, but one has usually been in the last few years, and it has been stable, getting no more than one written complaint to this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1043	There is no doubt that we have a good health service in this country, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. We agree on that, but it's in everyone's interest to try to do it even better and avoid such things happening in the future, and that it's the best game of chance and not the technical solutions that are crucial to whether individual users get the offer they're going to have. I interpret the Council of State to that it should focus on the future, and that the municipalities must have good practice, so that this does not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1048	It is quite right that municipalities have a responsibility to have good quality assurance of their services. Then we'll probably see a greater transition to digital solutions in this area, which also provides a different operational security.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1057	«Report. St. 29 Tomorrow's care will notify you of a launch of a program of active touching policies. [[2012-2013]] One measure was to improve the care pay system. In the NRK on 22 April 2015, it was told of a woman who lost a care allowance when she was in acute illness, at the same time she was not entitled to sick pay. The care arrangements need to be strengthened, and relatives must be entitled to relief and training. Will the Council of State urgently submit proposals to the Stortinget for strengthening the care pay system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1064	Family members who care for their children, spouses or parents are an important resource both for their immediate family and for society. Family members provide care of a scale that is close to the level of public care. This effort needs to be recognised and valued, and better interaction between health and care services and relatives needs to be facilitated. Long-term and comprehensive care efforts may have a negative impact on the health of the dependant and the possibility of professional participation. A forward-looking policy of relatives shall contribute to the appreciation of the efforts of their relatives and, at the same time, shall prevent them from suffering health or economic difficulties as a result of the care they have undertaken. This government will develop measures that contribute to the ability of those with extensive care tasks to care for personal and social needs and to participate in working and social life. As the representative Toppe is familiar with, there is work going on to ensure better support for relatives. In this particular programme, there are a number of measures related to flexible relief schemes, related support, information, training and guidance — measures to improve the interaction between health and care services and its relatives. It is important that care pay is seen in the context of and is an integral part of the overall service provision in order to ensure flexibility for the relatives. The government will reform the care pay and care systems for parents with sick and disabled children as a follow-up to the Kaasa Committee’s decision-making. We will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1075	It was determined by the Storting during the reporting process. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s Care, that it should be a programme for an active and forward-looking related policy that would apply from 2014 to 2020, and that the first phase would be for flexible download arrangements, relatives’ support, better interaction, cooperation, etc., and that the next phase of the programme would address the issue of changes in the financial compensation arrangements. I think it's urgent to look at the financial arrangements to strengthen the care pay system. I would like to ask the Council of State what time this will come to Stortinget, and whether he thinks it's okay that one with care pay is not entitled to sick pay and misses the offer today when one becomes acutely ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1082	Both the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which are responsible for these different arrangements, are working on the follow-up to the Kaasa Committee now, and we will return to the Stortinget with our proposals for this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1087	I asked if the Council of State could say anything about the time he came back to the Storting with the financial arrangements. The opposition was very impatient in the previous period, considering that one should look at both the care allowance and the care allowance, and wished that one could be more clear about the time involved. I also have a question about the situation of this with download sites, which the Council of State was in. How does it work in municipalities today, and will the Stortinge get a status report on this program that contains a lot of important actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1094	The program is in progress, and we'll follow it up. With regard to the question of time, I cannot – and do not want to – answer it today. It is absolutely right that the opposition and both the Right and the Advance Party, but also our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are impatient to follow up and look at the recommendations of the Kaasa Committee and to make the necessary changes and improvements in these arrangements. We're now working very intensively on that precisely because we're impatient, but I'm not going to come up with a timetable for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1105	The question is: ‘In the budgetary position for 2015, the majority agreed that Home Security plays an important role in the country’s overall preparedness and that the forces of intervention are the most operational part of Home Security. The sharpest part of the effort force, HV-016, of the HV-016, was closed in December 2010. In that budget setting, the size requested the recruitment of the staff of these departments. What is the status of the work on such re-recruitment to a high-operational unit with capacity equivalent to HV-016?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1114	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Elvesuen, for a good question. He refers to the majority's desire in the budgetary position to further strengthen the strengths of the effort. In particular, the government has done so by strengthening the training of selected forces in the forces of effort. There we have spent extra money, and it has been important to be able to practice and train more. In itself, there's a recruiting action, that it's being practiced and trained, so that the soldiers are well equipped for the tasks. The size asks the government to consider how best to recruit, retain and recruit personnel with a particularly high level of competence for the area structure and for the HV response forces, including personnel from the formerly closed 016 departments. As of today, between 95 and 100 pst. In general, Home Security reports that it is good recruitment to the effort forces. Then we should also have thought that, in line with the current long-term plan of defence, the forces of intervention should be reduced from a cap of 5,000 to 3,000, but that means that we reach about the number that it has been over time, that is, approximately. 3 000 in the input strengths. We have some challenges with recruiting for the Sjöheimeverterung, also informs the Home Office. In order to ensure that as many as possible will continue in the forces of effort, the Inspector-General of the Home Protection Agency decided to keep the personnel from 016 in each of its troops at the five affected districts. So you set up your own troops. The Home Protection Agency has previously informed that approx. 35 pst. by HV-016 soldiers chose to continue in the input forces. Since 2011, there has been some departure, especially because of the age and contracts that expire, but that's what you have calculated is going to happen. It is also important to stress that the HV leaders were very concerned about maintaining the skills that the former HV-016 soldiers represented. This means that of those who for different reasons did not join the effort forces, many joined the area structure — approximately. 139 soldiers – and that has been a very positive thing for the territorial structure both in terms of competence and, of course, also in terms of the knowledge and skills that the soldiers possess. We are following developments closely, given how many are left in both the effort and otherwise, and it turns out that since 2011, it seems that the figure has been somewhat stable – i.e. at about a point in time. 50 soldiers from HV-016 into the forces of effort. I just want to stress again that personnel with a background from HV-016 have both been and are very welcome to serve in the Defence, serve in the Home Guard intervention forces or in the area structure, as long as they meet the requirements for service. I think that is important in order to take advantage of the competence that remains in the personnel who are part of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1131	I thank you for your answer. It is good that you have an offer for those who have been in HV-016 to join the effort force. But the point here is that HV-016 was a high-capacity unit, approximately. 300 people, with a very short standby period compared to when you could shop, and also with a comprehensive exercise schedule. Then my question becomes: The position that the intervention force has today, is there an offer at the same level, with the same capacity and the amount of training that you had in HV-016? Or is this a capacity that has now been lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1138	I also think that the representative refers to the possibility of assisting the police in terrorist situations. There's been a defense role if the police ask for it. In the five selected troops that we have put on extra training, there is today practice and training up to 30 days, and it is an important resource for the police. There is a rise from approx. 20 days, so it's a pretty significant reinforcement. In addition, we have also done other things to improve our assistance to the police from the Defence Department. Among other things, we have reduced the response time for helicopters on Rygge and Bardufoss from 2 hours to 1 hour in order to be able to assist further. So I also think it is important to stress that the head of defence, when he now sees the whole structure of the Defence Council, is asked to look at this both as the Home Office in isolation and how we can assist the police in a good way in the situations where required.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1147	It is good that it is also seen in full in relation to the defence manager. But we live in a very uncertain world, with both unconventional warfare and hybrid warfare, and it is important in an uncertain world that we also have a response time and with a certain capacity and size that is relevant to the threat picture you can face. HV-016 was such a force, with 300 people, of which 70 pst. be able to stand for at least less than four hours. The question is: does the Council of State need us to have a corresponding capacity with the training basis and also the response time that HV-016 had in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1152	We've also explicitly asked the Chief of Defense for advice on this from something in the past. The Defence Manager is quite clear that it is not an unmet military need at present that cannot be met by intervention forces along with other capacities. What is typically happening in terrorist situations is calling for helicopter resources from the Defense and sometimes also special forces, to some extent home security and other capabilities that are needed. But when that's said, the head of defense and I have had a dialogue that this is natural to look at in a whole, precisely because, as the representative says, it's troubled times, and we have to keep up with it. I think in many of these areas we have good and strengthened preparedness compared to what we had in the past, but we can always get better. This is then one of the elements of that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1161	This question, from the representative of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative of Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1164	‘The Data Protection Authority has examined the PALS in single schools and strongly criticises, inter alia: the data security, registration practices and that parents have not been asked for authorisation for the use of child-sensitive personal data. Does the State Council share the criticism of the Data Protection Authority, and what does the State Council intend to do to ensure the protection of privacy in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1171	I would first like to thank the representative for raising this question. Privacy is an important issue, and although it does not always get so much attention, it is precisely the privacy of the small situations, i.e. everyday privacy, which may constitute the most important barrier to its effusion. PALS, positive behaviour, supportive learning environment and interaction are a Norwegian adaptation of a model developed, among others. at the University of Oregon in the United States. The model is thus adapted to the Norwegian situation of the Behaviour Centre – the Norwegian Centre for the Study of Problem Behaviour and Innovative Practice AS. According to a 2010 NIFU mapping, 7 pst reported. from primary school principals that they had used the PALS programme in the last four years. I do not know that the Data Protection Authority has specifically examined the PALS in single schools, but in 2013 and 2014 they have looked into the training sector and the privacy situation in the training sector, and there have also been some challenges that can be linked to the PALS. Among the challenges that arose were: that there was uncertainty about what personal data is, that there was a lack of internal control in many places, that there could be a lack of information security, a lack of information flow and the sharing of personal data with third parties, that there were suppliers of products that set standards for privacy and that there could be inadequate communication between school and home, to mention some of the points. Then it is important to stress that it is school owners, i.e. municipalities and county councils, who have the primary responsibility for their institutions handling privacy rules in a good enough way. The Data Protection Authority considered that a combined and coordinated approach should be taken across the sector, thus agreeing on a consistent practice that at least met the minimum requirements under the legislation. Already today, the Directorate of Education and the Centres for ICT in education have developed several privacy counsellors, including: a website called privacy school.no. This website shall help parents, students, teachers, school managers and school owners to understand the Personal Information Act and the corresponding Regulation. Nevertheless, I believe that there is reason to consider whether we should make further changes to the guidance and whether the privacy of the school needs to be further enhanced. I will therefore look into whether such changes are needed and whether they can contribute to a better understanding and enforcement of data protection legislation locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1188	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It was reassuring to hear that he is working on the privacy issue, and that he will also continue to work on it in the future. The PALS is designed on the basis of a scheme designed for people with major behavioural problems. What are the thoughts of the Council of State that this system is in use throughout the school population in over 200 schools in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1195	I think it's important to separate two things. One is what personal thoughts I can have about both systems, educational arrangements, teaching methods and – in this case – what might be called behavioral programmes, order programmes or, for that matter, anti- bullying programmes, and what I think should be the starting point for politics. I believe that the starting point of the policy should be a great confidence that municipalities, schools and educators themselves are able to choose the tools they think are sensible to use in their school. I think that's a good starting point. Then it's a minimum that you follow the rules that are too for example. the management of personal data. It's absolutely crucial. It is also worth mentioning that it is not that we in the Ministry of Knowledge – at least not in the case of the PALS – demand or encourage schools to implement the specific programme. On the bullying program page, however, we have supported a selection of programs, but there is a slightly different discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1202	The behavior centre designer, seller and researcher in this system, which includes PALS and SWIS. What kind of thoughts does the Council of State make of such an overall arrangement and ownership? Does the Council of State see any problem related to this, among other things, in research?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1207	It is certainly possible to imagine some issues that may arise. On the other hand, we want institutions, universities and universities as well as other parts of our knowledge infrastructure to also use the research results they come up with. In other words, I think it is generally positive that concrete programmes and practices can also be developed in the sector. As I said, it is certainly possible to imagine some issues around it. I have not been made aware of any issues related to the Behavioural Centre in concrete terms, but if there is any information about it, or if it is problematic in any way, one must, of course, look at it. Some clearer answers to a slightly unclear question I do not have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1212	That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-29.ana.ud2589e1225	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? − The meeting is abrogated.
