ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e26	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, has taken the seat. The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e39	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to introduce the subject of employment as a compulsory offer at the youth level.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e44	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e56	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e61	Norway's population is growing, more people live in cities, and we're getting older. The increase in the number of older people comes too far in the 2020s. We will meet these developments and ensure that our elderly people with a need for care are given just that – high-quality care, which is available to all regardless of the family’s personal finances. In several municipalities where the government parties have a majority, we see a targeted effort to privatise and commercialise care services. What's the experience with this? Research on the privatisation of health and care services, including: from the United States, shows that the big private chains are getting worse on quality. It is difficult to make money on such services without cutting costs in areas such as wages, pensions and the number of employees. It has put pressure on those who work in the sector. Research from NOVA in Norway shows the same picture. Saving money on competitive outsourcing is easily reflected in the quality of services: fewer employees, lower ground staff and more use of short-term guards. We still remember what was revealed in the so-called Adecco scandal. On Monday's Day Revy, we could see that a family saw the need to pay privately for a nurse to look after their nursing mother at night because the staff at the nursing home was too low. There was one assistant in 19 patients at night, and one night nurse was responsible for 104 patients divided into six wards. Is the Prime Minister concerned that further commercialisation of this sector will lead to a pressure that ultimately leads to a two-part care service that affects the most nurturing and vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e76	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre claims that in municipalities in Norway there is active work for more commercialisation of services. My experience is that Norwegian municipalities – regardless of political colour – work actively every day to ensure that older people get a better offer, to increase quality, and to give older people the services they deserve. I believe that there is no difference in political colour in the willingness to do so, but there are sometimes differences in political colour in the way you focus. One of the things that some municipalities under the leadership of the Right Party, the Advance Party and other bourgeois parties have done is to say that having control in their own everyday lives and getting more freedom of choice is important, and that it is a quality in itself. For this reason, the possibility of user choice is introduced in many places. And we see from all studies that the ability to get user choice – the ability to choose something else – actually makes you feel better. However, responsibility for the care of the elderly and for the provision of services is always with the municipalities and with the public. But it's important to raise the quality in the years to come. There is one thing the government is actively working on, among other things. by ensuring that the wide variation we see between municipalities is better seen, so that the municipalities that make it bad can be better cared for and become even better municipalities. One of the things we have done is the creation of our own municipal health and care register, which will allow municipal politicians to see even more clearly how they claim different quality parameters compared to other municipalities, and thus can also do the strengthening measures to ensure that each of the older people in Norway receives the care they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e85	The question is, what is the experience with privatisation and commercialisation of this type of service? NOVA's research shows that where it is pinched, it relates to employees' pension entitlements, wages and salaries and the number of employees. That's where the margins arise. What I want to hear is whether the Prime Minister is concerned about this development, where we see examples of low crew, it's staffing people without a good professional background and education. It affects the care of those who need that kind of care. Then we agree on all possible freedom of choice, that one can have the longest possible time at home, the use of welfare technology, all that we research and want to facilitate, but the result of municipal economy, the lack of tax revenue, is that it's where it's being cut. A targeted strategy in some municipalities is that when you privatize, this turns out. The question I'm asking is: Does the Prime Minister worry about what she sees of character, as we saw in the report in Dagsrevyen this Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e92	Yes, I worry and see that we do not have a good enough care for the elderly in Norway. This is why the government has many measures to increase the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly. I do not think there is any basis for concluding that there are differences in quality between private and public-run institutions in the care of the elderly. On the contrary, we know from user experience surveys that private individuals have often cut higher, been more flexible and have been able to make adjustments more locally than they have done in public. When the representative Jonas Gahr Støre chooses to use the Adecco scandal, there must be a time shift that is present, if he has forgotten that three months after it, the major scandals connected with the Trondheim municipality – under the leadership of the Workers' Party – showed a number of violations in the care sector related to overtime and the working environment. There is no difference between public and private links to this. We all have to work to raise the quality of care, and sometimes the good ideas from the private are important to learn from for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e101	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tove Karoline Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e104	The Swedish social economist Laura Hartman had to go from the job of research leader in the Swedish Association of Economics and Society when she documented that privatisation and commercialisation in Swedish elderly care had led to poorer services and a large-scale dividend party for private owners, as other research shows. Under the bourgeois government in Sweden, a handful of large international groups were able to handle all private elderly care. In Norway, we see slightly the same trend. What starts as locally based private welfare measures is gradually taken over by the large groups. At the end of the bourgeois government period in Sweden, there were several politicians from the Moderates, the Right Sister Party, who publicly began to ask questions about whether this privatisation policy had led them in the right direction, or perhaps in the wrong direction. When will the Right begin to ask the same question? Are there no barriers to privatisation and commercialisation in these vulnerable welfare areas? And where will the Prime Minister put the limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e111	There is not a large amount of commercialised private services within the Norwegian elderly care system. I think the count that was made before the 2013 elections showed that there were about 15 or 18 institutions that were exposed to competition – it could be that the number is a little higher, I take it from my head, so I don't want to be taken on factual mistakes related to it – but it makes a big problem that some people are in and offer services, and we know from many of the surveys, that they are cutting higher on user satisfaction among the population. The biggest feature is where we have the freedom of choice for the individual elderly. In the Right we believe that older people are old enough to decide for themselves, they can make their own choices. Unlike what people on the left believe that older people cannot make the choices, that the municipality must make the choices for them, we believe that older people can make their own choices. It is those who experience the quality of services almost, and they must be able to make those choices. But this is a discussion that is not about the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly, it is about how we lift municipal public care for the elderly, how we make it better. It has good measures for the government to do, as the previous government was not going to do at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e120	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e123	Quality is not always about whether it is private or public, but patients, or residents, who are granted permanent residence in Norwegian nursing homes, have an average of five-six active diagnostics when given room. Users often come, in addition, directly from hospitals and in hospital for short-term stays — and they are as sick as they were ten years ago when they were in an inpatient department in a Norwegian hospital. My question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that we have enough staff and sufficient competence – and increase it here – and that it is not a blind spot for doctors to take further training and spend their time in Norwegian nursing homes, that this is rather highlighted as a good way to go to become a specialist in general medicine, rather than to lose that way of learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e131	I believe that the representative of Bollestad is significantly more concerned with the challenges of Norwegian care for the elderly today than the representatives of the Workers' Party have been with these questions in the past. It is a quality promise for the whole care sector that is important, regardless of who operates the different units, and then it is important to make sure that we have more knowledge. That's why we work with quality registers, quality indicators that make municipalities compare with each other – they can see who's good, and who's not so good in this area. That's one of the things we're working on. Then we also work on the manning questions. It is stated in the Sundvolden platform that we will have indicative or fixed staffing standards related to the care sector, and we are working on a major report on the primary health service that will come to Stortinget, where the care sector will also be mentioned, because there is a close link between healthcare and care services, especially in the care of the elderly. And the fact that the Interaction Reform makes much heavier patients now being moved out again to the hospitals, means that this quality and health perspective needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e138	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e141	In the 2014 Annual Report of Patients and Users for the Environment, there is evidence that the healthcare provision is largely lacking, leading to a lack of individual health care and that basic guarantees of legal security have been set aside. The patient and user environment calls for concrete measures to ensure that the healthcare provision in Norway complies with the patient and user rights laws. The Prime Minister was about to improve the quality and get a new register, but one is not excluded from the basic crew. In the case of Dagsrevyen, there was one assistant in 19 patients, but this is usually also out in the public service. My question is: does the Prime Minister mean that a crew with one assistant of 19 patients at night is an acceptable crew, ensuring the quality of the supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e148	I don't think we as politicians should decide what is acceptable, because it depends on how sick those in the hospital are. It's very important to take into account that in some nursing homes there are very sick people, where this is absolutely not a good enough crew, while in other homes there may be quite up-and-coming people, so there must be a differentiation here. You can't stand on the pulpit in Stortinget and say that it and that crew are not right. This is a professional question, such as: Health care and others have to decide in their assessments. But what we're going to do is we're going to raise the quality of the work done, and then we've said on the Sundvolden platform that we're going to look at manning standards and guidance manning standards for this, and that's what we're going to get back to the Stortinget. It's going beyond what the red-green government did, which in the last period rejected that kind of proposal, also related to the medical staff in the care of the elderly, which the entire opposition agreed that something should be done about. This government intends to follow up, and Stortinget will receive a big message for treatment where it is possible to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e153	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e156	Annual supervision reveals that two out of three Norwegian hospitals commit crimes. This is not a debate on private or public-run nursing homes, it is a debate on a major public challenge. It is the largest in the municipal sector. In my municipality, Gjøvik Municipality, which the Workers' Party has always ruled, we have similar examples to what Jonas Gahr Støre refers to, where a nursing home and home care community share one nurse at night, so this is not an unknown challenge. Then I've been to the Upholstery in Oslo, run by Norlandia Care. They have their own family school, and they have a medical coverage we in Gjøvik municipality can only dream about at home and in the care service. But this with supervision and relatives' participation I think is one of the keys to creating more transparency, getting more participation and more knowledge about what is happening in Norwegian care for the elderly. What will the government do to bring about a more coherent system of supervision? Today, this cracks in every direction, from those who have good oversight locally, to those who don't have it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e163	There are different levels of supervision. One is the self-monitoring that the municipalities do, among other things. with regard to user rights and individuals. The second supervision is that carried out by the Health Authority in terms of quality, where the Health Authority is taking action in different areas, including in hospitals. They point out conditions in different reporting rounds — a few years ago there was a large reporting round from the Health Inspectorate on the use of coercion within dementias, among others. – and go in and see if there is a breach in terms of quality. This will also be better at the moment that we have some standards to deal with, which the government is working with, including quality indicators, which will help us measure what quality is. Today, we often ask questions about what to measure ourselves against, not only the inputs and people, but also the services that are provided, and the content of them. I believe that there is a lot of good care for the elderly in Norway. I've been to amazing institutions, which make sure not least to stimulate dents to have a meaningful life still, so we don't have to draw a picture where everything is black. But there's a lot of holes that we have to fill.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e170	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions. The President will stress the importance of keeping our speaking time. We're not going to last longer than one and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e173	The main picture of Norwegian care for the elderly is good. At the same time, we know that there are some things that aren't good enough, and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights has done a review that shows some serious findings at the hospital, among other things. undernourishment, which affects too many older people, too many cases of mistreatment, serious use of coercion, etc. What that report and very many others point to as the key to getting something done with it is increased staffing. It's ominous when we see, we're going to say, the beginning of a new class division, where someone who has money for it can buy for better care than others. This makes us in SV think anew about the question of staffing standards in nursing homes. There is something both SV and Right have been against before, but I feel that the government has now signaled a willingness to think around. But we have not quite managed to get answers from the government on what is now being investigated, because it says ‘norm/guidance’ in the government statement. There are two very different things. That is why I would like to ask if there is a national staffing standard for nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e178	We are investigating this issue, and there will be a big message that will also take care of the care sector and the primary health service in the municipalities. I cannot now conclude whether the government concludes with a norm or an indicative norm. There are also big differences on who lives in hospitals, and what can be dangerous is that you think the hospitals are A4 solutions. They're not. In some places there are very up-and-coming people who are there, mentally up-and-coming, others are in dementia wards -- there's a lot of variation. Sometimes very heavy patients come in from the hospitals that require extra staffing. We need flexibility. It's actually one of the things we have to try to do in the health care organization, to have flexibility and to be able to put in extra effort when there's even worse patients coming in. It is therefore difficult to establish a common national norm. Therefore, guidance can be the way. We haven't made a decision about it in the government, but we're open to discussing it, and that's why we're going to the Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e183	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e187	The intelligence service provided its assessment of the security threats in 2015, and it was recently presented. In that report, a security threat related to Russia’s efforts to strengthen its position in former Soviet states was highlighted. There is also an increasing threat in digital space, and both China and Russia are being identified as the most active actors behind networked intelligence operations targeting Norway, but not least highlighting a threat from extreme Islamism. ISIL, Al Qaida and other Islamic terrorist groups operate in Syria. ISIL has taken control of large areas in Iraq and Syria. It has created new havens for terrorism in the region, and it has increased the threat of terrorism in the region, but also against Western countries. These threats are far more relevant than the defence. The solutions are largely civil. We must actively counteract dangerous radicalisation in the deferred youth environment. We must stop the financing of this terrorism. We must stop recruiting from Norway to terrorist groups like ISIL, the Nusra Front, Al Qaida and several others. We must be willing to make a military contribution to strengthening the defence capabilities of the countries against terrorist movements. We need to know how to identify dangerous people who come home after having had ideological indoctrination and war experience in terrorist groups. We need to advise municipalities on how to behave when people who come home from such areas of war can pose a security risk. There have been initiatives in Norway in several areas, but my question to the Prime Minister is: do we have sufficient coordination and response to extreme Islamism and the threat of terrorism, or are there special challenges that are not yet addressed systematically enough, and with enough weight?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e196	We live in a world that creates greater challenges for us around us. This applies both to cyberspace from other countries, organised criminal interests, and not least to the terrorist threat and the increasing recruitment of radical jihadist Islamism linked to the situation in Syria, related to the situation in Somalia, and there are several from Boko Haram around the Sahara. There are several areas where this is a major challenge and a terrorist site also targeting outside the area. It's true that we have to deal with this in a lot of different ways. We are part of the core group linked to the fight against ISIL in Iraq. We are now working to finalise the broadcast of Norwegian participating military personnel in the effort related to the fight there. We work well in cooperation with many other countries, in intelligence cooperation, to get a good overview. We work a lot in Norway, and we've strengthened the PST's ability to follow those who come back, to look for risks, to work with familiar people with that kind of connection, but there's still probably room to do more in those areas. In addition, we are working on mobilizing what I call the campaign of value that is going on every day of our society about some young human souls. The struggle between ISIL and the fundamentalist Islamic thinking to win or whether it is our liberal values to win is about mobilising all good forces in the community to help young people on the right track in the future. We have a lot more to do, but we've started.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e205	I would like to thank you for the good answer. The Prime Minister mentions the military contribution to Iraq to which the government has received the consent of the Storting, and I would like to see right what the status of that mission is. Then we know that the Jews were among the terrorists at the terrorist action both in Paris and in Copenhagen no in the new year. Does the Prime Minister think that there is reason to systematise and strengthen the preventive action against anti-semitism and strengthen the protection of Jewish institutions in Norway? When we see how specific the threat was in both Paris and Copenhagen, it's a natural question to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e214	Police have strengthened the protection of the Jewish institutions in Norway, precisely because we see the consequences and the ringing effects of both the fact that the Jews in several of the acts of terrorism that have been done have been primary objectives, and also that they have been secondary objectives, i.e. that when there have been two actions, action has been taken. 2 against Jewish institutions. It is a work that the police closely follow, and where they have taken precautions. The other thing we have to do is work with the increasing anti-semitism and the Jewish hatred that we experience. It's in some groups a hatred of Jews, also related to the situation that's been in the Middle East. It is important to engage and bring everyone living in Norway into the discussion that we should not move conflicts from outside into our home country. The other side of it is that there is a common side between what I experience is antisemitism and Islamophobia, and a strong criticism of everyone who comes to Norway with a different cultural background. There are two sides of the same thing that we have to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e221	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e224	Thank you for that – I was saying thank you for last time to the Prime Minister. What are we saying? It was an honest and straightforward discussion. I would like to come back to what was one of the starting points for the main issue, namely the 2015 assessment of security threats by the Intelligence Service and the issue related to Russia, including: their efforts to strengthen their influence in former Soviet countries have been specifically mentioned. The Minister of Defence has in very clear order said something about the relationship with Russia, that it will never be the same again. It is a strong expression of unrest when we are a neighbouring country to Russia. We see what happened to Boris Nemtsov. We don't know who's behind it, but we know the risk that those who are in such a situation as he's done are running. My question is, how does the Prime Minister view our relationship with Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e235	Our relationship with Russia is marked by some important points. We cannot, as a small country, which has our first defense in international law, respect for our national borders, accept that large countries are making themselves right in the world. Russia has done this to Ukraine in the Crimean Peninsula, they have done so with the activities – which are well documented – of Russian soldiers inside eastern Ukraine. There I believe it is a clear and clear answer from us. The second part is that we have tried to maintain a bilateral relationship in the areas of cooperation we have, among other things. in the north, for day-to-day work to work. I think that works well, and we have good cooperation platforms for it. However, it is clear that it is affected by the political developments in Russia, among others. how to tackle voluntary humanitarian civil society organisations, which form the basis for people-to-people cooperation, including in Norway. That means that several steps have been reset in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e242	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e245	It is an important question raised by the representative of Hareide. I would like to stress that there is a demanding situation in Norway when it relates to the threat from the extreme Islamic environment and others. The government has our full support in managing that situation. At the same time, the threat image from the E-service and the PST show that we are facing several threats, including: cybertruscans and digital threats. The former Chief of Cyber Defense must have said that the sector responsibility principle does not apply in digital space, because he sees that the challenges are great. The evening post has said that the cyber defence has lost much of its investment budget. NSM and Cyberdefence are the most important areas of expertise we have to fight digital attacks. The e-service explicitly writes that network-based operations pose a significant threat to Norwegian targets. My question is how the Prime Minister will strengthen our commitments to deal with digital threats, while we see that the cyber defence is being cut off significantly in their budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e250	Let me start by thanking you for the broad support I experience that we have for our work both to prevent foreign fighters and to bring down the threat of terror. There are several difficult issues related to network operations from other countries, including those from terrorist organisations from Russia, such as: The challenges are quite lacking. Some of them are also going to be difficult for Stortinget as we discuss which police and intelligence operations are legal and possible in Norway, in what way we can collect information about what is actually going on. We have reduced a separate sample that is now working on it, and that will provide an investigation for the autumn on the whole cyberspace crime challenge, but also on the issues related to intelligence. By doing so, we are trying to get an even wider picture of what action needs to be taken. One of the biggest challenges is that things have moved from satellite to cable. There we have less opportunity to obtain information, and that makes it more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e257	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e261	Several and more people leave Norway to participate in warlike acts abroad. They come home as a threat to our society. One thing is given that can happen in the courts, something else is the follow-up of these people and the environment around those who also have to happen. This is an increasingly important question. It's shown earlier here, too. The security services should be commended for being fully open on the theme. When we get information, we can take responsibility. The Prime Minister has previously sent letters to Norwegian municipalities about the follow-up of people coming home from Syria. In the evening post on February 2nd this year we could read that Norwegian municipalities will not be notified if a home Syrian danger is a terrorist threat, but they can be warned if there is no danger. Local authorities have an important task to do. What will the Prime Minister do other than send a letter, to ensure that the municipalities are able to follow these people in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e268	First of all, the letter I sent to 23 municipalities is about working with the prevention work in an even more active way, and many municipalities do. I myself have attended many meetings related to this, and the government and services attend many meetings in the municipalities to make sure that you are prepared to work better, too, to reach new environments to prevent more trips, to make sure that young people feel that our values are more important than the values offered by ISIL and other terrorist organisations like the meaning of life, for the time being. Of course, it's a challenge to tell a number of others if you think that someone can be a terrorist threat. It has to do with privacy related to criminal literature research. This, of course, makes this sound strange in the case of municipalities, but it has to do with basic privacy and fundamental security in the investigation. This is a dilemma, but we are now upgrading both the health services and the municipalities in order to do this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e275	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e278	It can often seem as if things and challenges around us are new, but there are always elements in them where we can use lessons we have from before. We, who were young in the 1980s – who also experienced the privatisation debate we had earlier here today – also experienced recruitment to Nynazism, where the despair of parents was quite similar to the despair of many parents today, who experience their children being recruited to extremism. I believe that the government has put forward a good action plan, and I believe that municipalities like Oslo have started to get good instruction. But the mechanisms are pretty similar. It's not just about those who go out to war, it's about recruiting to extreme ideologies. And we know a lot about that. History has taught us a lot about how youth is recruited into extremism. It's about both alienation, it's about the feeling that you're not part of the community we feel we're part of, and it's about parents who become hopeless. How are we going to be able to use what we've already learned into the new challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e287	The representative Skei Grande is quite right that we have been through something of the same, but I would like to stress: not in the order we see now. It is clear that we have had neo-Nazi environments, and we have had left-wing radical environments – less violent in Norway than they were in Europe in the 1970s – and that is a little different recruitment basis, but it is a lot to learn from what was done in relation to the emergence of right-wing extraterrestrial environments, in what is now working around the municipalities to prevent people from being recruited to extreme terrorist organisations and to extreme Islamic movements. So I want to say that some of what we have to be prepared for is that in a more polarized debate, this extremism, on the one hand, can get new Nynazist recruitment to happen. We also make sure that we have vigilance for it. That's why we're trying to get a transfer of skills, and we're talking to the municipalities about how it is. There's also a research experiment. – There are a little too many measures in this area that I can list them in one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e294	SV fully shares the commitment to violent Islamist extremism, and we are also very concerned about the growing anti-Semitism in Europe. There's a lot of concrete things to do, for example. The Jewish institutions in Norway should be able to have their own contact in the PST. That's not what I'm going to ask. I'm going to ask about right-wing extremism and follow up a little bit what Stepe Skei Grande was into, because right-wing extremism is not just a thing of the past. Norway has experienced one of the worst terrorist attacks in modern European times, and we have little knowledge of these new environments, both in Norway and in other countries. Jan Tore Sanner has told the NRK in January that the government will set up a research center on right-wing extremism. It's very good, but there's still no funding in place, and it's not clear what kind of form this project is going to take. Will the Prime Minister take action to ensure that funding and localization are put in place during the spring, so that we can start this very important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e303	The government has asked the Research Council to make a proposal. There are many good trade unions in Norway working with different elements of extremism, including themes related to the right-wing extremists. What's important about creating a new center in this context is not just lubricating on a new layer with a few scientists attached to it, but tying it well together. That is why we have asked the Research Council to make proposals for models that we can choose. I think it's important that they have time to make sure that we build a good environment, and not just do something for the sake of sight to get rid of good ideas that we've had on the road, quickly. This has to be something that works, and then we have to have a good research model for it. There are many of the research communities that have sub-shares in this, which are afraid that only an additional institution will be set up to compete for the funds in the future. But this is something the government has put on the agenda, and that is something we are going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e313	Norway is a diverse country, so we also have a diversity of municipalities — large and small. In the population, Norwegian municipalities are on average in Europe. In terms of area, they're among the largest. The government has launched a process aimed at a significant reduction in the number of municipalities. The government calls the reform democracy reform – democracy, democracy. In such a context, it is amazing that the Right Fears the Most in this reform, is the People. I stand here with a letter sent from the Right Central Management to the Right Rapporteurs and the Local People's Elections, with instructions as to why you should not have local referendums. Let me quote a small portion of the letter: ‘People’s votes on these kinds of issues often give rise to views, inaccuracies and divisions in the community and may lead to a decision that is not knowledge-based.’ As party leader, Erna Solberg is responsible for this letter. Will Prime Minister Erna Solberg confirm that she believes that referendums lead to vision, inaccuracy, division and non-knowledge-based decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e325	I believe that it is up to each municipality to assess how they will anchor the process related to the municipal reform. The municipalities that have done this successfully before have had different models for this. As regards the anchoring process related to the municipal merger of Stokke, Sandefjord and Andebu – Andebu has a central party rapporteur – it has been done by having broad public meetings, public engagement and good discussion on matters, in order to inform as much as possible of all those involved. It has been created a good way to anchor the process forward. Whether there should be a referendum is, as I said, a question that you locally want to address and assess. I think you can get very good discussions through a referendum, but of course you can also get the discussions that you can always get, namely that you are only concerned with individual themes and individual areas. And it's important to remember that municipal reform actually revolves around, among other things. on how the weakest groups – those with the weakest voice – will get a better offer in the future. It's not always the ones it's going to be most focused on when the discussions come up. I still believe that the question of how to create the best possible and the most inclusive process for the population needs to be addressed locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e336	I understand that Prime Minister Erna Solberg does not want to comment on the letter for which she is responsible, as the party leader, that has been sent out from the Right Central Management. But at least I choose to read a little bit more from that letter. There's a lot of things going on there, among other things. that if, against assumption, there were to be a majority in order to listen to the people through a local referendum, right locally must make two demands. The two requirements of the Right Central Management are as follows: ‘1. It should be a minimum of 75 % turnout.’ Then it's important to remember that the turnout in a local selection is usually about 64 pst. That's it in 2011. This was Requirement No. 1st@item: inlistbox Requirement No 2 is that it should be at least 60 pst. the majority of whom are called upon to listen to the Council by the local politicians of the Right. Then the question to the Prime Minister is: Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg support this demand that there be a minimum of 75 pst. participation and minimum 60 pst. majority if you're going to listen to the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e351	I wonder whether those in our party who have written this have been inspired by the views of the Central Party on the advisory referendums on the European Union. It has been thought before that they should not be taken into account, if it was not a significant majority who both participated and said yes, and that in any case they would stand up to this. This sounds like a slightly special letter sent from our party office, related to these requirements. I do not think that our party should be so strongly inspired by the view of the Central Party as to what the outcome of referendums should mean for what the decision should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e358	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e361	Then there is reason to conclude that the Prime Minister is dissociating himself from a central part of the letter sent by the Højres main organisation. I think that's clarifying, because this is really a central dictate from the Right to its people in the municipalities to undermine the wishes of local referendums on community mergers. Just a few weeks ago, Stortinget had a debate on local democracy, where a strongly underlined the importance of local referendum, and that is not least important in terms of the very existence of a municipality. A local referendum will give breadth and legitimacy to a decision, whether it becomes yes or no. A study from December last year shows that a large majority, a whole 64 pst. by the people, want referendums on community reunification. So now that the Prime Minister has distanced himself from one part of the letter from the Right, can she also confirm that neither the other part – the central dictatorship of undermining local referenda – is applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e370	We as a party have no tradition of dictating local politicians. It's actually an important part of the Right's political tradition that our elected representatives correspond to the voters in their municipality and to the programme they're elected to. Unlike many other parties in this room, our organs can, for example: do not instruct elected bodies in matters which are not part of programme management and other. It's a tradition we have, so I can't read a letter from the Right Organization as an instruction for anything, because it would be a fundamental violation of how the Right Party Organisation is. We don't have the Stalinist principles on which some other parties have historically based. That's the opposite: we have the bourgeois and elected traditions that it's not the party that rules, but actually the elected ones. That's the way it is for our big group, too. When it comes to the question of local referendums, I have answered it: I believe it is up to each municipality to assess how to anchor the question of community reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e377	Tore Hagebakken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e380	I think it is a rather peculiar letter that the Prime Minister is responsible for sending out to his party traps. If it's the case that the Right is concerned that the people don't have enough knowledge to participate in a referendum, then the Right has to go into the seams, because the Right and the Government have asked the municipalities to do their job, and it's going to happen at a high pace, but the Government doesn't do their job. Jan Tore Sanner was very high on the track and said: more and more tasks. Instead, the government's specialty has been to remove tasks from the local government sector. So now the prime minister has a golden opportunity to say what big, new tasks are coming, and thus also dampen the great uncertainty that is inhibiting out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e385	As the representative knows, there has been a notification of tasks to be dealt with in Stortinget this spring session. That's the process that was outlined in the municipal bill last year, to which Stortinget agreed. This means that within a relatively short period of time, the Stortinget will get the picture of what the government believes will be transferred to the municipalities of tasks with a new municipal reform – in line with the plan presented. It's not like the State Council Jan Tore Sanner doesn't do his job. On the contrary – he does his job every day, in line with what Stortinget has joined. And that's why there's an assignment message for treatment in Stortinget during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e390	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e393	The Prime Minister drew up individuals and weak groups as a kind of argument against referendum, if I understood correctly. I would like to remind you that studies show that services are better in small municipalities than in the largest, and that the quality of services is reflected in the satisfaction of citizens and their view of services. It is strange, then, that ‘greatest is best’ is the main slogan of the municipal reform. SV believes that it is important for people to take part in and express their opinion on crucial issues in their lives, such as: how the municipalities should look and what the democratic framework of the community should be. My question is: does the Prime Minister see better ways of involving people in these kinds of issues than in referendums, and what should that be?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e402	I believe it is an underestimation of the need for competence, for example. in the care sector, if it is considered that the size of the professional environment does not matter. We demand more and more from Norwegian municipalities. They will provide a broad range of skills: they will have people who can work with dementia, mental retardation and psychiatry – and this is difficult for many small municipalities to deliver to. All the professional environmental reports also say that this is difficult to do in width. That is why I believe that the weak have good reason for the fact that the municipalities will grow in Norway in the future. In the case of anchoring processes, different anchoring processes have been selected. The municipal merger we now have to deal with in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is about three municipalities that have chosen a lashing process, where there have been many hearings, many large public meetings, thorough discussion, and where there has been good cooperation with the media. It's been a good process, which makes me think that people feel very well informed about what will be the consequences of the community reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e409	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e413	The Prime Minister has been very commendable about the need for the green shift, in fact so clear that she has received criticism from the old oilmates in the Workers' Party and the Center Party to be so. But here I am in the Prime Minister's party. Here it is important to make the major changes in society to meet the challenges we face. It is good that the Prime Minister's own party has also set up a separate selection to see how the green shift will meet. We need a new and active climate policy that both reduces greenhouse gas emissions and brings about the green transition in Norway. I agree with the Prime Minister in what she said in Today's Business on 17 February that it is necessary to keep the welfare arrangements we have today and to raise Norway further. The drivers in this are not just the external framework conditions as an oil price and the fact that we see new energies coming in. It's also our tax system, that's how we get simplification, how we make it easier to start businesses, how we rate research, innovation and transport. Today it looks as if at least two thirds of the red-green don't think this is important. Much indicates that the Prime Minister believes this is important. This is why my challenge to the Prime Minister is: What concrete action does the Prime Minister want to take in the short term to get the green shift that I hope she wants and believes is necessary for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e422	I believe that we are based on a very good government budget adopted in Stortinget in interaction between four parties to start the change in the Norwegian economy that we need in the years to come. It is a government budget that promises many new measures and incentives related to the climate area directly, both to reduce emissions in the transport sector, to build more railways, and to ensure that we have more money for change, innovation and innovation. We have increased significantly on BIA funds during the two budget lines we have behind us, we have increased on renewables, we have increased on institutional support, we have increased on many of the measures that are important. In addition, we have made changes to the tax system that make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, which also makes it easier to raise capital against the new jobs to come. I think it is important to say that the green shift is not just about the issue of climate action, because the change we are going to have in the economy is about finding new jobs in a wide range of areas. I visited Laerdal Medical a few days ago – a fantastic company, 98 pst. export-oriented, on rescue dolls and others, fantastic with regard to the sustainability objectives, mother and child health out there. I think there are many other sectors that will be able to fill in with new types of jobs, and the health and care sector is one of them, related to welfare technology and other. So we're going to have to make sure that we stimulate innovation widely. Making a good framework for investing in businesses and ensuring that we have good tax framework conditions in the future is one of the important measures to achieve this. And then that's the cost level. Simplification policy is the second. The government works every day to make things easier. I tend to say that behind every rule there is usually a press group. This means that there is often a lot of noise every time you have to make simplifications either in public or in relation to businesses. But we're working on these issues, precisely because we're going to make Norway more competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e429	I want to pursue the Prime Minister's approach, because studies carried out in the United States, Sweden, Denmark and Finland now show that almost 50 pst. Of the jobs we know today, there won't be 20 years to come. It means a huge transformation of society, it means a huge change in our business life. If we are to be able to replace them with new, environmentally friendly jobs, which are going to be long-lasting and can bring Norway forward, we need a green strategy to create those jobs. Then we've seen that when we use the tax system, like we did on electric cars before, or the explosion we see in hybrid cars just after the government budget in the fall, it works very effectively to create innovation, innovation and the good climate solutions. So my question to the Prime Minister is, she likes to use the words 'growth-promoting tax relief'. Is she willing to use our tax system to make the growth-enhancing tax relief green?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e436	Yes, I also believe that we should use the tax system for what is an important principle for the whole Storting, I think, that polluter pays. That's one of those things. It helps to make it more growth-promoting what's green, green growth-promoting. What's green will be more profitable, and what's not green will cost more. When the Green Tax Commission comes and is done, I would assume that there will also be a menu of recipes for measures that will enable us to implement that principle. Then I want to say that even if 50 pst. Of the jobs are going to be new, they are going to come in many of the industries we know in advance. A great deal of what has been traditional Norwegian business is also very important in the conversion process we have. For example, aluminium is a material that is going to be incredibly important also to get to the green shift. So we don't just have to look for the new types of jobs, we also have to make sure that we further develop on the good, important nutritional basis that we have from before. Digitalisation will be important, but the material technology that Norway has invested in – 30 years of research and development on it and more than that – will continue to be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e443	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e446	Successful innovation and technology development are often based on solid commitment and strong financial support from government agencies. Common to the three most central instruments we have – Innovation Norway, Investinor and Argentum – is that no one can claim to be particularly focused on the green shift and green growth. Internationally, the trend is for green bonds and green investment funds to see new records. Argentum is present here to a small or no extent. Investinor has made an investment in a new environmental enterprise since April 2011, nor can Innovation Norway claim to have a special emphasis on green growth, despite the fact that we have, in fact, strengthened the environmental technology system by yet another state budget. So the question is short and good: will the Prime Minister be involved in a review of the public tools, so that we can better address it to the new environmentally friendly workplaces that we are going to provide for in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e455	We now have a review of some of the instruments – we are reviewing, among other things. Innovation Norway — and whether to focus unilaterally on the environment and climate, or whether it should be broad. We have two types of measures. It is measures that in a way look close to a market, and many of these instruments are to commercialise and bring it into the market. There I believe that we must have the same principles whether it is a green or a health promotion or another measure: it should be market and commercialisation-based. Then we have what is about providing support for the development of technologies and pilot projects. This is where we have increased the environmental technology system, and we see how Enova's profile should be in relation to climate technology in the years to come. That's among the things we're going through. But I think we have to think that in the last phase we're not going to have one-sided instruments that just go on the green technology, because what we're going to live on in the future is going to be a lot. Everything's not just going to be green, but it's not going to be polluting what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e466	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e469	Let me first point out that the Workers' Party is for conversion. We've always been, and we're always going to be for conversion. That is why we have also proposed a number of measures in Stortinget, and we have been involved in a number of proposals, precisely to underpin new opportunities in a perhaps more demanding future. We have proposed technology-neutral write-downs for investments in renewable energy. We've been supporting green data storage. We have proposed better grid tariffs for power-generating industries so that they can get better framework conditions. We had a stronger effort on the environmental technology system, and not least on the energy and climate technology fund than the government. We didn't get through to that. But I assume that the government might come back to Stortinget with these proposals. So to what's the concern. The oil industry contains a large amount of national wealth through competence. How will the Prime Minister ensure that those companies and those competencies can develop on a path towards the low-carbon society? How is she going to propose measures precisely to create security for the people who are in that industry today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e476	I have long tried to listen to the Workers' Party and what they really want when they talk about conversion. I am very pleased that we are now seeing a working party that wants stronger measures than what they would admit to the opposition when we negotiated the climate agreement. A number of the measures they now want to overwhelm our proposal and what we are putting in now were measures they said no to when we negotiated with them when they were in government. I think the world is moving forward as the Workers' Party is now trying to compete to be better in those areas. So in the case of the oil industry. We will continue to be concerned about developing oil and gas resources in Norway. That's why we've also announced a 23rd concession round. That's why we're working on opening up new areas. But we know that even with the new areas, the level of activity is going to be slightly lower in the years to come. It is clear that this is going to be a profitable and strong industry in Norway for those who work there, but it is going to be a little less important in the Norwegian economy. I believe that we should not have specific measures to stimulate the oil industry now, but we should have specific measures to ensure that we get new businesses that we can also live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e485	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e489	I am pleased that the cooperation parties have jointly started the green shift. It is therefore important in the future to be concrete. There is a lot of talk about the transport sector – about road and rail. However, the maritime sector – which I would like to point out – can in the future take a significant share of emission reduction and can take a global leading role in green shipping and the green shift. Developing a cleaner shipping is like a triple-profit cheek egg: it is good for the environment, it is good for Norwegian value creation, and it will be profitable. Norway should have a vision of establishing the world’s most efficient and environmentally friendly maritime transport in Norwegian waters. The average age of Norwegian ferries and speedboats is close to 30 years, many of which are pure emissions bombs. My question is: Will the government take advantage of this opportunity – at a time when parts of the maritime industry are struggling – to stimulate a green shift through offensive measures by renewing the ferry and fast boat fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e498	We believe that making our entire maritime nutrition greener is really forward-looking. This is why the government has started to look at how the various measures together will ensure that we can contribute to the renewal and transition to completely different fuel technologies related to the entire shipping industry in Norway. There is a work that takes place between departments, industry and others, to look at which measures will be most effective. Saying now that we're going to have more progress in some quick boat constructions or in some new contracts related to different ferry connections is not one of the things that we've concluded. We have to evaluate that based on the speed at which the renewal takes place. We also need to consider this in relation to quite offensive plans to build bridges in this country, not least in the West, where it might not be the fun thing to do to renew ferry connections with new ferries right now, if we are to build new bridges in the same places in a few years' time. We must look at this in a comprehensive transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e505	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e508	The Prime Minister often tends to say that it was not done enough in the climate field by previous governments – I agree with that to the extent – but then it is quite special that the government's new climate communication says the following: «As a basis for decision-making on concrete actions and instruments, further impact assessments are necessary.» The government has therefore provided a climate communication without any new measures. In addition, considerable efforts have been made to effectively eliminate national climate targets, despite the fact that the government received two comprehensive reports from the Environment Directorate in 2014. Before that, there was a climate cure, which was a very comprehensive study of the climate action that must and can be implemented in Norway. I am sure Norway has a total of 10 kg with public investigations of climate action. My question to the Prime Minister is: What sort of investigative response is the government going to need before it commits itself to a green shift that is more than large-scale messages, and which actually cuts emissions in Norway, exactly?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e520	This government has for the most part committed itself to a green shift. The budget adopted at Stortinget — following cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties — is the first estimate of a reduction in passenger traffic in Norway. We'll see if we can achieve that goal, but that's what the tools that have been put in indicate. This government made sure to get a status update on where we were immediately getting in position, just to see what new grip we were going to take. The big message that has been delivered is about the objectives we are going to notify in Paris. It's a target message, and then the instruments come every year, for example. in the budget. In the autumn budget, we strengthened the climate technology system. We announced better depreciation rules for renewable energy, which we have now consulted. We have therefore taken a number of measures to contribute to both more energy efficiency and more focus on renewable energy and on climate action, which will contribute to reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e527	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e530	Between 1970 and 1990, Norwegian industry carried out a fabulous purification process in which they dramatically cut all emissions. The instrument for this implementation was not international quota trade in sulphur, nitrogen, phosphorus and other contaminants. It wasn't flexible mechanisms. It was an unambiguous and cash implementation of Norwegian requirements for cut. The result was a much more efficient and much more competitive Norwegian industry, and a lot of innovation. The Greens believe that this is a methodology that will also work within the climate area, and we believe that ambitious climate policy is ambitious industrial policy. It does not always seem that the Right believes the same thing about setting climate requirements for Norwegian companies, and the question is: Does the Prime Minister agree that it is good, efficient and forward-looking industrial policy to impose tough climate requirements on Norwegian companies in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e537	The largest reductions in CO2 from Norwegian industry and industry have not been made on the basis of the type of requirements they came under an agreement between industry and the government — among others. The last time we were in government – to contribute to these reductions. The positive instruments have been the largest. The fact that we have had a NOx fund that has contributed to the fact that there has been money to invest in new technologies in shipping has helped to make emissions work a step further. In fact, it is the positive instruments that have contributed most to CO2 emissions. When there is a global challenge to climate change emissions, it is important that the things we do are related to what the rest of the world does. When we're part of the contractual system we have, for example. On the business side, it is that if we reduce our emissions in Norway, we will not necessarily have a global reduction in total. That's why the important thing we do in these areas is to contribute to the technology that makes all companies in an area move in the right direction, and can be an example in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e550	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e553	Last year, the Prime Minister made a great effort to contribute to mobilization to the 8th March trains around the country. It was very successful, and we got the biggest markings since the middle of the 1970s. My hope is that she can contribute to this mobilization this year as well, and therefore I would like to put a question on the agenda that concerns especially many women. It is the pension dumping that takes place within kindergartens, in the care of the elderly, within clean-up and a number of other women-dominated professions when public tasks are privatised and outsourced by civil society politicians around the country. A lot of people noticed the story of two help nurses recently, at the Red Twentieth Hospital in Oslo, Karin Rones and Anne Karin Nilsen, who were told a few weeks before they were due to retire, that they lost their pension rights because of competitive outsourcing. Just like that situation was fortunately cleared up by the Municipality of Oslo after great media attention, but very many others experience this dramatic change in their own living conditions and prospects of old age due to privatisation policy. Last October, former financial bureau from the Right in Tromsø municipality wanted the municipality to reorganize the cleaning kit. Then she said to Nordlys: ‘Thus, as employees no longer work in the municipality, but in a limited liability company, they will be able to lose their pension scheme. There is an opportunity for the municipality to save money.’ In a 2013 study by the Norwegian Nursing Association, it appears that about half of the municipal politicians from the Right and the Advance Party think it is okay that commercial operators win tenders because employees are getting less pay and pensions. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a good way to save money in Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e567	I believe that the objective of competitive outsourcing should not be to save on pensions. I think it should be possible to provide better services, to use the money in the municipality in a way that will allow the weakest people to get better services in the years to come. It is important to ensure that all – both those working in the private sector and those working in the public sector – have good pension conditions. When I last joined the government, we therefore agreed with the parties on a compulsory occupational pension as an element of getting a pension reform that ensured that everyone in Norway who is in work would receive more pension than the only pension that would give them. However, it is a challenge that the pension structure of public pensions and private pensions may differ, and for individuals it may be that when you put out competition, some are in a situation where, because of the way in which public pension schemes are designed, they will receive less pension. But it's not like that's the general rule for everyone. In many contexts, there will be a question of where one is in the pension benefit cycle. But the important thing is that municipalities have to be allowed to take their responsibilities and make sure to spend their money so that those who need it, for example. care services are provided with the best possible range of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e573	While it is good for the Prime Minister to wish that this is not the way to save money in the municipalities, it is still in this way that a good deal of a civil majority – and the right is usually involved when this kind of policy is implemented – chooses to save money. It gets concrete, dramatic results for real people out there, for kindergarten assistants, for cleaners, for help nurses who have worked a long life in community service, who are also very often women, and who carry the welfare state on their shoulders. Then there's a national question how we're going to prevent their conditions from being dumped. Today, some groups have a statutory right to retain their pension on a competitive basis, for example. nurses. If the Prime Minister is serious that this pension dumping is not acceptable, we should change the law so that the caregivers and cleaners also have the opportunity to secure their pension. Will the government agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e580	I find it a challenge that there are so many differences between private and public pension schemes as of today. It is a theme that everyone knows was not solved by the pension reform. I think it would have been good for Norway if we had found a solution to this in the years to come, but that is of course something we have to discuss carefully with the parties, if that is going to happen. But my answer to the representative Lighthouse is the question: Will SV in the future be involved in ensuring that transitions between the public and private sectors can be made easier for all groups, so that we can actually contribute to the fact that the pension reform does not contribute to even greater pension inequalities in the future? I think we should be concerned about all women, not just the women who work in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e587	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e590	It's not just in the municipalities that women's pensions become balancing posts. We also see that the government is pursuing the same policy, for example. by sending out the cleaning in the Defense in an offer and thus trying to rob the loyal people who do a good job of cleaning up the Defence, for future retirement. My question is: If the Prime Minister believes that pension is not a good way to save public expenditure, will the Prime Minister then support proposals that prevent the type of pensioner we see in the case, both in the municipality of Norway and among the cleaners in the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e595	I believe that we have a great responsibility to ensure good pension conditions for all in Norway, and that it is sustainable for the future. There has been a greater inequality in pension conditions since the introduction of the pension reform, which we have a broad majority behind it. It is a fundamental challenge. We also need labour mobility in the years to come, between the public sector and the private sector. I think SV makes this into a very snowy piece. We cannot all be public sector employees and participate in public sector pension schemes in the future. Then we have to think through how we ensure good pension conditions for everyone, and that would seem to me to be a topic that would have been interesting to hear SV's views on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e600	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e603	When the price becomes decisive in the case of tenders, already low-paid women pay the price in the event of a deterioration in pay and working conditions, and in particular poorer pension conditions, on which the representative Lysbakken was involved. The government’s competitive edge affects women the most, leading to greater economic differences between women and men. Unlike the Prime Minister who here says that she is not really interested in looking at this question, the red-green government had a different course. We started work on the impact on pay and working conditions of competitive outsourcing with non-discrimination objectives. We have requested the report and the follow-up in this room. We haven't seen anything about it, and we expect it to be in a drawer with the Minister of Labour. Last year, the Prime Minister and the government were mobilised to attend the 8th March train because of the booking case. Then the Prime Minister said that she did not realize that this was a big deal. Does the Prime Minister realize this year that women think it is a major issue that they are paying the government's competitive edge by getting poorer pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e612	I understand that all the residents of Norway are engaged in their pension rights. I think it's quite natural that you are. And then the question is, are we going to accept in the future that there are so many differences for individual groups as there are, between what they get in the public sector and what they get in the private sector? I feel that one of our concerns in the future is that the whole of the people's security reform is now mainly being implemented for the young people who work outside the public sector. It's going to create an imbalance in this relationship in the years to come, which we have to address with the parties in the years to come. This cannot be isolated just for the issue of putting off competition, because it also contributes to the full flexibility and the issue of moving, for example. in academia, between working at a university and working in the business world and being able to modernise our institutions in this way, because the differences in pensions become very large. It's a big, complex and complicated question, and I hope that the Workers' Party is willing to see that it's a big, complex and complicated question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e619	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e622	How far this government is going to go in terms of outsourcing and privatisation, and what consequences it can have, among other things. for pension entitlements, will be some of the important issues ahead. It's going to apply to many areas. The Minister of Transport has said that the operation and maintenance of the railway must be put out of competition. There he is supported by the productivity commission – the Rattsø Commission – which also says that they think it is a good idea, and in a way they make the government’s recipe for some privatisation and competitive outsourcing. But then the productivity commission says that a condition to do that is that you have to do something about pension rights. There is a need to reduce the pension rights of those who work with the operation and maintenance of the railway. Does the Prime Minister share that attitude, both to the competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the railway system, and that something needs to be done about the pension rights of employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e631	We have not gone into and evaluated the individual proposals of the productivity commission. We have said that this is an interesting discussion, but we are working on a major rail-related reform – just as we have had major reforms in the past, for example. individual groups have been moved out of the national occupational pension scheme into the private sector, but where they have also gained significantly greater pay flexibility in the same enterprises. It is a bit of what happened during all the modernisation that took place in the 1990s, where enterprises were moved from being public-sector management or service providers to being independent and outside pension schemes, but also got better pay conditions and greater freedom in the formation of wages than one has in the public system. These are the balances made in the different corporate structures that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e641	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e644	We're not supposed to be afraid to give our citizens better services. But there's still an important question, this is about retirement, because it's an open challenge in such cases, and it's also a challenge where people themselves want to change the sector and change jobs. It's a significant equality policy perspective in what we're talking about, very women-dominated jobs. I feel that the Prime Minister takes this seriously and says that it is a big and complex issue. My question will then be whether the Prime Minister and the government intend to take the initiative to do something with her. The main challenge is that one has so far different pension systems that the pension reform never entirely reached the public sector and that it can create problematic and significant lock-in effects. It is clear that there must be a dialogue with the parties, but for something to happen, one depends, however, on someone being the first to take the initiative. So will the government take the initiative for a new reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e651	It is in the order of the previous government to return to these questions by 2017, where it is, among other things. an evaluation of the AFP scheme, as designed, shall also be carried out. It is clear that the government will then take an initiative towards the parties and talk about it. When we're going to take that, I think we're going to talk to the parties about, just because these are rights that government employees have had over a long, long time, and those adaptations we need to have a good discussion about. As I say, this is complex, it's difficult. And then it's not always like that because you put off competition, you get less pension rights, or that wages and pensions are generally getting worse. It depends on where you are in life, because the special design of public sector pension schemes means that the end of working life means so much about what you get paid in pensions, because the benefits are different. So if you are a young worker, it may be the opposite – that you actually earn more on your pension rights if you work in a private enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e658	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e661	Norway has a world record of volunteering. Many are engaged in voluntary work. The main source of funding for the vast majority of non-governmental organisations active in Norway is the Norwegian Tipping surplus. Through the exclusive right model that Norsk Tipping represents, we have good systems for gambling problems and addiction. Through ownership of Norwegian Typing, the legislation may change quickly if new games create challenges. The model of exclusive rights has ensured the financing of sports facilities and physical activity and is a good contribution to public health. Emergency services such as the Red Cross, the Public Aid and the Rescue Company receive their income from the same surplus. A number of health non-governmental organisations are receiving money. The same applies to the music equipment system, to grants to the gossipers — yes, also to the development of libraries and museums depends on this funding. The government is now opening up commercial players – several of them registered at the Isle of Man and other tax havens – to participate in the market in this area as well. It must be liberalised at all costs. In agreement, the Organisation-Norway has warned the government against liberalising gambling policy, at the latest in a letter from the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Handball Federation this week. Organisations such as LNU, Red Cross and Actis are other examples. These objections concern the weakening of the exclusive right model, challenging the EEA rules, the loss of revenue for voluntary activities in Norway, increased marketing and advertising pressure, which increase gambling dependence. Who is the government that wants to satisfy by its proposal to liberalise gambling policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e670	In principle, what the government has proposed, is to clean up, among other things. by ensuring that lottery activities have clear framework conditions. The challenge was that the previous government gave several permits for lottery activities, on the side of the exclusive rights model, which we got an ESA case about. It is important to remember that the previous government did not make legislation, but that it was about political beauty with regard to who was authorised. As a result, the exclusive right model was challenged by ESA, as a result of the assessments made by the previous government – on the side of the exclusive right model they chose to agree to. When you don't have a clear set of rules to say yes and when you say no, and yet you say yes to someone, it creates trouble for Norwegian society and for the model of exclusive rights. We have done that – by ensuring that we now have a system of lottery legislation that allows others to do so. But it will always be for good purposes – for volunteering, for good purposes – when you have lottery activities in Norway, and have the opportunity to seek out a clean, transparent and good code that we believe is robust also in relation to ESA, as opposed to the policies of the previous government, which, of course, provided us with a case that meant that the government had to go in and clean up significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e679	It is interesting that the Prime Minister says it should go for good and that it should be voluntary. Why is it then that those who become recipients do not need to register once in the Voluntary Register and may have all their activities out? I think that's a good question. But it's true, as the Prime Minister says, there are two lotteries outside of the exclusive right model today. One is the Extra game, which has Norwegian Typing as its operator. There was a good job done by the red-green government to get the Extra game into Norwegian Typing. In addition, it's the Pantelotteriet, which the Red Cross has. The model of exclusive rights is justified by the fact that there is no gambling addiction, and then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think it is so demanding to convince the European Union that putting bottles into a vending machine does not create gambling dependence, that the whole lottery market must be liberalised?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e688	The previous government was allowed to have legislation and principles that were transparent when it came to their decisions. The Lottery Authority said yes to an application from the Postal Code Lottery – the government said no to an application, without transparency, without a level playing field and without meeting the requirements, in order to see which decisions and the basis for decision-making had to be made by the government. So this led to a case in ESA. We believe that some purposes, such as: combating child mortality in Africa, should be allowed to receive money from lotteries in Norway. We have ensured that the environment and international environmental activity can also receive money and be a purpose for the lottery activity in the country. It is this type of organisation that is behind it and that is going to get profits from, for example: The postcode lottery, which may be one of the applicants. However, there must be legislation to ensure that there are good purposes and charitable purposes to be given money, linked to the limited scheme of lottery activities open to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e693	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e696	The Christian People's Party has registered that the government has made its decision and will have five new lotteries, with a turnover of 1.5 billion. kr in the year, outside the key. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about what it will lead to, considering the model of exclusive rights. But the main questions for the Prime Minister are: What is the government’s overall goal of Norwegian gambling policy? How does the government view the picture as a whole? So far, we've only had a few small drops: they've opened for poker -- now they're opening for five new licenses. But what is the overall game policy of this government, which also has to include what has to do with the fight against gambling addiction? We don't see that. We only get small drops all the time, without getting any picture of what is the government's overall goal with Norwegian game policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e701	The overall aim of the government's game policy is to ensure that those who want to play games do so within proper limits. That's why we've made sure that those who play poker get a proper and limited framework to do that. We're very concerned about the addiction issue related to this, and that's why we've set very clear limits. That is also why we have ordered an investigation related to gambling addiction and the new licensing system, in order to follow up on the issues it poses, including crime. Games in Norway are primarily a source of income for the many organisations involved in volunteering and civil society. Our new licensing policy – in the form of allowing five lotteries – is entirely within that type of funding source. But one has opened up other good purposes too – some of them are for purposes beyond the borders of the country, for example. An important area such as working to combat child mortality — can participate in lottery activities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e709	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e721	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion as the right person. Question 2, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative of Audun Lysbakken. Question 5, from the representative of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Mr Audun Lysbakken has been withdrawn. Question 10, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be taken up by the representative Ingunn Gjerstad. Question 13, from the representative of Mr Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e749	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e752	‘From 2015, the incentive scheme for voluntary intercultural work in local communities and migrant organisations has been transferred from the county to 20 municipalities. In Hordaland, the municipality of Bergen has taken over the administration. The change means that only measures in Bergen will now be supported. The Grannehälpa Foundation – Volunteering Centre in Kvam – thus loses its support for operating an international women’s group. Will the Council of State change the scheme so that voluntary integration work in municipalities that Quam will also receive support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e759	The State budget for 2015 allocated a total of 49.1 million. kr i support for voluntary activities in the field of integration. 12.3 million. of these funds are allocated to the operation of local migrant organisations and other voluntary activities in local communities. The government wants the most efficient use of those resources, and therefore, in its budget, we target support to local immigrant organisations and to voluntary activities in local communities. Instead of distributing funds to all the municipalities of the country through the counties, as has been done in the past, the grant is distributed across 20 selected municipalities throughout the country from this year onwards. There are municipalities with the highest number of immigrants in their region. By providing funds to municipalities, it will be easier for municipalities to use voluntary actors as part of their integration work. In this way, municipal authorities will also be able to cooperate more closely with volunteering and with local immigrant organisations in their municipality. At the same time, I would like to encourage the municipality of Kvam to continue to support and cooperate with local volunteering and to cooperate with its neighbouring municipalities on good integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e768	I'm kind of a little bit surprised by the answer, because I understand that the government and the government will target the integration work where the challenges are greatest, i.e. in large municipalities that have many immigrants. It's quite fine and very nice, but I can't understand that this is going to be done by removing the possibilities that all municipalities need, simply to do a good integration work in all communities and in all municipalities. If you look at how the scheme has worked, there are a lot of municipalities that have been supported, who have done a good job. Will the Council of State look at this again so that even small municipalities can receive support for such work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e773	As I said in my previous answer, we have just added about this grant scheme, and the aim was to target the scheme more and give the funds directly to the municipalities, instead of distributing it through the county municipalities. Now I want to make this system work for a few years to gain experience, and then we'll have to take a review to see if it has worked well, as the intention was. It is important for me to state that, although the State does not contribute funds to all municipalities over this scheme, the municipalities still have a responsibility to support voluntary activities and cooperate with each other. Voluntary work in the field of integration in municipalities is very important, and it is also possible to take funds from the integration grant and use them to stimulate voluntary organisations to participate in the local integration work. I now recommend Kvam Municipality to look into whether any of the funds they receive for integration grants can also be used up against the voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e780	For Hordaland County, I have checked who received support from this scheme last year, outside the municipality of Bergen, and supported many important measures in several municipalities in Hordaland. I can refer to actions in the municipality of Askøy, Bømlo Volunteer Centre, Vaksdal Volunteer Centre, Eyegarden Volunteer Centre, Voss International Women's Club, which is an international women's association project at Sotra, and KnarvikMila. The feedback is that there is a lot of integration work here for the money. So all of these projects that I have named now – and more – will not be supported for integration work in the next few years because the government is going to create a so-called targeted scheme. Is integration work less important in small municipalities, since all support is now cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e785	Integration work is extremely important in the municipalities, and it is out in the municipalities where the work takes place. It is important that municipalities see that good cooperation with voluntary teams and organisations can help to achieve faster and better integration than we have now. I want to emphasize that this is 12.3 million. DKK of a pot of more than 49 million. NOK that goes to local grants and is now targeted by the scheme we have set up. I want to target this scheme and let it work, even for the large municipalities, when it is now the municipalities that are going to handle this, and not the county municipalities. I would recommend all the municipalities to which the representative refers to go in and look at how the integration grant is used, because funds from the integration grant can also be used to stimulate voluntary teams and organisations. It is important that voluntary teams and organisations participate in the local integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e803	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e810	‘I have noticed that the Minister for Fisheries has sent a proposal on differentiated market tax rates to the Seafood Council. This will give about 200 million. crowns in reduced revenue to the Council of Seafood. What knowledge does the Council of State have that there is a branding of Norwegian seafood outside Norway in addition to the work carried out by the Council of Seafood Ministers for the Community, which requires a reduction of this size?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e817	We have sent to the hearing a proposal to differentiate the market fee and to change the voting process for Norway's sea wire. The proposed differentiation of the market charge results in a current market charge of 0,75 pst. continue for all cod, shrimp and shellfish and for salmon, trout and pelagic fish it shall be reduced to 0,5 pst. or 0,4 pst. The background to the consultation proposal is that in 2014, an evaluation of the work of the Seafood Council on the single market, market information and preparedness was carried out. The evaluation showed that the financing model of the Seafood Council should be reviewed in the light of the changes that have taken place in the markets and in the industry in recent years. It has, among other things, a strong consolidation in the aquaculture and pelagic sectors, production growth and changes in products and markets. The evaluation also shows that the size of the companies’ own brand construction of marine food abroad has increased. This is the background to the proposal on tax reduction in some sectors. The amendments to the level of fees charged for the export of salmon, trout and pelagic fish reflect the fact that parts of these sectors have become major international actors wishing to invest more in the construction of their own brands. In recent years, the Seafood Council has seen a relatively large increase in revenue from the market levy. In 2014, the company’s revenues from the market tax reached approx. 500 million. kr. This implies an increase of a total of 40 pst. in less than five years. Seafood is one of our most important export industries. I do not hear anyone in the industry who does not defend the role of the Seafood Council as the common market leader, but there are clearly shared views among stakeholders about what is the right level. I would like to remind you here that there have also been earlier up and down adjustments in the market fee, and most of the time until 2011 the fee has actually been differentiated. I definitely believe that the industry has continued to benefit from joint marketing efforts, and we must ensure that the scale is adapted to the needs of the industry. I believe that the Marine Food Council will continue to have an important task, and will work on generic marketing and promotion, market information, preparedness and reputation to promote the consumption of Norwegian seafood in domestic and foreign countries. The case is open for consultation until 8 April. We're going to study carefully the hearing opinions that come in before we decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e836	The point is that in Europe and in the United States – or in Asia, for that matter, Norwegian salmon, or Norwegian mackerel, are branded. The marketing and re-evaluation that the Board of Marine Food does for the whole of the sea, for the community, is being treated with envy in very many other countries. Then you have to always see if you can use the resources differently or better. The Seafood Council has also received a new strategy a few years ago. But when the most important market for Norwegian seafood disappeared, when the boycott came from Russia, the Maritime Council was worth gold, and they also had the means to quickly turn around and find new markets. How can the Minister defend the fact that we are going to have a five-fold increase in Norwegian seafood production, with as much reduction as one would suggest here when it comes to re-evaluation and marketing abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e841	As I said in my first answer, there has been a very strong consolidation in the aquaculture and pelagic sectors. There has been significant growth in production and changes in products and markets, and the evaluation clearly shows that the size of the companies’ own brand construction of marine food abroad has increased. There's generic marketing at the bottom. But then there are some larger companies -- we can use Lerøy Aurora in Skjervøy as one example -- that have their own brand, and that will soon have the Japan market almost alone. That's also how we could find more examples. To what the representative asks, if the salmon industry fivefolds its value, it is clear that it will mean that there will be considerable funds in the Marine Food Council's box, with such a development path. So here it's about doing the right level. It's kind of the industry that develops strategies, and it's the industry that sits with board members in the Maritime Council, so I trust we'll find a good solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e848	What we're talking about is a reduction of 200 million. kr, and I notice that the minister is not able to give an example that someone is using something close to so much on their own brand construction. For example, joint marketing and re-evaluation have been crucial in raising sales growth, price and quality. Skreei is a good example here. But over many years, red fish has had a significant surplus, I would say, and one has not at all the chance of owning its own brand building abroad – it is minimal. But then only ideological reasons underlie this 200 million reduction. kr that has been proposed, or can the Minister provide examples of individual companies that are able to market themselves at that size there?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e855	This isn't about ideology at all, it's about the Marine Council being evaluated, it's about the findings that have been made in that evaluation, and it's about what those who pay in to the Maritime Council actually have of views here. And that's right: there are slightly different points of view between smaller companies and larger companies, both in the salmon sector and in other areas, and that's natural enough things that I'd like to hear – I suppose – in the hearing replies that come back. And so no reduction of 200 million has been adopted. kr. The hearing is real, and then we see what kind of conclusion we're going to get. But it is beyond doubt that the large salmon companies spend considerable money on their own brand construction abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e866	This question, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative of Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e869	‘The Per Sandberg party of the People’s Party has stated that the multicultural society has ‘played a fall’ and that ‘Islam moves borders’ in society. This is totally contrary to the Sundvollen Declaration, which states that ‘Immigration is a source of diversity, new impulses and cultural exchange’ and that ‘immigration has contributed to economic growth’. Does the Council of State agree with its Vice-Chairman in these views, and if so, does the Council of State consider it compatible with the Government Declaration and good inclusion work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e876	The Health Declaration states that immigration has contributed to economic growth in Norway and made us a more diverse nation. At the same time, we clearly see that we have challenges related to immigration and integration. The Declaration of Government forms the basis for my work as Minister of Integration. Norway has a policy based on equal obligations and rights for all legally resident in the country. I see many challenges associated with new citizens coming to the country and increasing diversity. These we have to deal with. Most immigrants in Norway are at work, but there are too many who are out of work. This is especially true of women, those with little or no schooling and refugees who come from war and conflict. Here, targeted work is required. It is also very worrying that many boys with immigrant backgrounds do not complete secondary education. Preventing school dropout is one of the government's most important tasks. In Norway, human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and equality are fundamental values. Within these limits, all shall have equal opportunities and freedom to make their own choices. Work against discrimination and against forced marriages and other serious restrictions on the freedom of young people is important in this context. We must be uncompromising with those who use violence and harassment and who restrict freedom and security to other people. The government is working widely to strengthen integration. The announcements on lifelong learning and exclusion, on gender equality and on family policy, which the government will present in 2015 and 2016, will meet some of the challenges facing society. Obligations and rights must go hand in hand. The Health Declaration states that immigrants must feel belonging and belonging to Norwegian society. All shall enjoy the same rights and obligations in Norway, irrespective of their ethnic background. Making demands on immigrants is showing them respect. I follow these principles as I develop integration policy further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e891	There were many fine words, and an outline of a number of integration challenges and principles on which there is a broad consensus on the Storting, but that's not what I asked. What I asked was the Council of State’s view of the statements made by the Vice-Chairman of her own party that this multicultural community under the responsibility of the Council of State has ‘played down’. The reason why it is interesting to know what the Minister of Inclusion thinks about it is that the Progress Party now has the two state councils responsible for integrating, including and combating prejudices. Then it's hard to understand that it's going to be okay for a party to say one thing here and something completely different when it's the Vice President who speaks out publicly. Then it is also necessary to ask the Minister of Inclusion whether she agrees with Per Sandberg that the multicultural society has failed – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e896	It is the government statement that forms the basis of my work as a Minister of Inclusion, and the most important work we can do is to have residents who have been legally resident and who are on reception out there waiting. Like Per Sandberg, I see that there are challenges to multicultural society. It is a challenge to integrate and settle the refugees who have been legally resident, and therefore it is a work that I, as Minister for Integration, take for granted. I have to say that it is quite special when the former Minister for Integration is standing here and refers to several things that the previous government actually was unable to do. There was a growth of three and a half thousand in reception in the last two years SV sat with the Minister for Integration. It has formed the basis that there are too many people in reception and are waiting for a municipality to live in. There are too many municipalities that are unable to get into work or education after the two years of introduction. The most important thing we can do is to integrate those who have been legally accommodated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e903	The Council of State is wrong – I have not mentioned a single specific case either in terms of housing or other important things that the Council of State is working on. That was not my question. My question was, what does the Council of State think about Per Sandberg's statements that the multicultural society has gone down? It is necessary to know what the Minister of Inclusion thinks about. I hear Solveig Horne says she works on the basis of the Sundvolden statement, but it says something quite different than the Progress Party communicates when they are outside the government premises! That's why I just want a clarification of where the Council of State stands. Is it that the Council of State says that her work is done on the basis of the government statement, the same as saying that she disagrees with Per Sandberg, or does the Council of State intend to ride two horses? Does the Council of State think that multicultural society has failed, or does the Council of State disagree with such a statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e910	As Minister of Integration, I am dealing with the government platform. That is the basis on which I carry out my work. I would also like to point out that in the party programme of the Progress Party it is very clear that those who have been legally resident in Norway should be involved and contribute. They have obligations, they have rights, they are to be settled in a municipality. So I said in my previous answer that I, like Per Sandberg, see that we have challenges. We have challenges today both to settle and integrate those who have been legally accommodated, and it is a work that I take most seriously, and with which the government is actively working. It's been a historic settlement in the last few years, and that's something we're going to continue with. We have managed to settle more than the SV was able to during his reign. Now it is important to focus on the work done in municipalities, so that municipalities see that integrating the people who have been legally accommodated contributes to their being a resource in society and not a challenge for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e926	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e933	‘What impact does the Council of State see that changes to the Labour Environment Act will have on equality in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e938	The proposal for amendments to the Labour Environment Act has been presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who has the constitutional responsibility for the proposal. That is why this response to the representative has been drawn up in consultation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The government wants to change the legal provisions on working time in order to give workers and employers more opportunities to find solutions locally. The government's proposals for changes to working time rules will make it easier to put in place good flexitime agreements. The proposal could also help to increase the ability of women and men to adapt working time to their own daily and family lives. It will be easier to arrange longer shifts for some weekends. For women and men who work the tour, this could mean more weekends. The government's proposals will promote full-time work. With increased local flexibility, the need for small job breaks and thus part-time jobs will be reduced. This will primarily benefit women, as most women work part-time. The government wants to open up the labour market to more people, and proposes a general access to temporary employment for up to 12 months. Permanent posts must remain the general rule of the labour market. The legislative proposal could facilitate access to the labour market for those groups that are having difficulties getting in touch today. This applies, inter alia, to: newly-trained, newly-accompanied immigrants and disabled persons. Today, more women than men have reduced working capacity and receive health-related benefits. These groups could benefit from the proposal made by the government. It is difficult to draw any clear conclusions on the overall impact of the proposal on equality. However, I would like to stress that depending on my own income is the basis of an equal society, and the government's proposal is a contribution to achieving that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e953	In its opinion on gender equality and discrimination, the Ombudsman pointed out that the proposal for a change to the Working Environment Act would specifically affect women, including women. because women work to the greatest extent in areas where temporaryity is already a problem. In addition, discrimination related to pregnancy is a major problem in today's working life. A completely new scope study presented by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman today shows that 55 pst. by women and 22 pst. men have experienced one or more forms of discrimination related to pregnancy or parental leave. How does the Council of State view the increased use of temporaryity as having an impact on the discrimination suffered by pregnant women and men entering parental leave today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e958	I would first like to stress that the protection against discrimination against pregnant workers applies in the same way to temporary employment as it does to permanent employment. I share the concerns expressed by the LO in this report regarding the extent of pregnancy discrimination. We have a good protection against pregnancy discrimination today, but it is also a responsibility that the employee has to assume. I am now working on a new, common equality and non-discrimination law, and enforcement of the protection of discrimination will be an important factor in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e963	The most important protection for pregnant people will be that you have a contract, and that you have a job to do even when you get to the stomach and have a changed life situation waiting. For this reason, I wonder: does the Council of State see that there are gender policy arguments against allowing the Employment Environment Act to open up more temporary jobs, especially in view of those who have a contract that goes out at the same time as the term approaches?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e968	Let me first say that pregnant women and maternity leave workers are legally protected from discrimination in the workplace, and protection against discrimination against pregnant workers applies in the same way to temporary employment as to permanent employment. So I think our law is good. What is the challenge, and as the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman addresses today, is how it is enforced. It is a work that this government has started, which was not taken into account by the previous government when they had occasion when we discussed and adopted a new anti-discrimination law in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e977	I would like to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Numbers from the scope study on violence and rape of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress one year ago showed that one in 10 Norwegian women has been raped. When the Council of State received the report, she said, "Violence against women is worst for those affected, but it is also a social and gender issue." It is now one year since the Council of State received this report. What has happened since then, and does the Council of State still believe that this is a social and gender issue, and what will she do with it?"
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e986	Violence against women is one of the greatest gender equality challenges we have today, not only in Norway, but also in the rest of the world. The government prioritises the work against violence in close relations. We cooperate across departments to follow-up actions that are already anchored in the action plan. This is an action plan presented by the previous government, which will apply from 2014 to 2017, and which is coordinated by the Minister of Justice and Security. It contains a number of measures that are now being implemented and concreteised. The main task is to prevent and prevent violence and abuse. I want to give some examples of what the government is doing: a total of 50 million. DKK over five years to increase the knowledge base on violence against women and children. That's set to seven million. kr annually during the planning period of an anti-prevention package, inter alia. to awareness campaigns and to a web portal on violence in close relationships. In 2014, the government presented a new action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. Health stations and school health services are receiving a further 270 million. kr in 2015, and all pregnant women are now to be asked about violence and sexual assault. Prevention is important, and I am therefore pleased that family protection is strengthened by 50 million. kr in 2015. Among other things, the offer to families living with violence and the offer of violence should be strengthened. Knowledge of violence and sexual abuse shall also be included in health and social education and in kindergarten and elementary school teacher training. This year, we have established a new grant scheme for actions for children at risk of violence of 11.5 million. kr. The grant scheme for working against violence in close relationships has increased by 2.5 million. kr on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. There have also been increased appropriations for the State Children's House. We have recently received the evaluation of the crisis centre offer. I am pleased that the Crisis Centre Act has helped to strengthen the crisis centre offer in the municipalities, although we have a piece left until we can say that the law is fully implemented. The work we have to follow up on this is important. Overall, this government carries out a solid lifting against violence. But violence against women is still a serious social and gender issue. Therefore, this will also be a theme of the gender equality message that the government will promote during 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1003	First, I would like to say that it is very good that the government we now have is following up many important measures in the action plan as the previous government stated, and in which there were many important measures. It is also good that one follows up the measures that were mentioned here and that SV has been working for for many years. However, the investigation I referred to came after the action plan. In the last week, Amnesty International came with its annual report, which shows that the Norwegian authorities largely left the prevention of sexual abuse and the choice of voluntary organisations. They say that there is too little systematic and random because of this, and when the prevention work is bad, unfortunately it leads to fortification and taboo. I would also like to ask: What, in addition to the existing action plan, has the Council of State taken action after having received the report she commented on a little over a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1012	Work on violence and abuse against children and women, and also against men, is a cross-political work that all parties agree that we need to strengthen. I have no problem saying that the previous government presented a good action plan that this government is now following up and putting into practice. The measure to be taken by this government is that it actually strengthens the measures contained in the action plan. We have done so in a number of areas – which I have now had to deal with – such as strengthening police and preparedness and strengthening measures in the prevention and judicial field, and not least what the Minister for Health has done by asking all pregnant women if they have been subjected to violence. Following up the measures — we do not need to reinvent the powder — and strengthening the measures already in place is important. I believe that this government is fully dealing with the budgets it has submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1017	I am really happy every time the government we have now, not to invent the gunpowder, but to use the gunpowder that the previous government invented. Let me ask you something else — a slightly different introduction to the same theme — simply the law when it comes to electoral law, which over time has been a debate. How do the Councils of State react to change the electoral law, that selection is defined as sexual intercourse without genuine consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1024	A rape is a rape. I'm going to leave to the Minister of Justice to work on the law, and I know that the Minister of Justice is working on putting this into practice. But first of all, I want to say that the strengthening of the criminal law done by the previous government is actually this government that manages to implement faster, because the law we had failed to implement in the courts by the previous government. I still want to go back to something the representative talked about, and they are volunteers. I think it's important that we also focus on the volunteers in this work, because there's a lot of volunteer work going on. I can refer you to the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, which has also worked against violence against women. There are also many who work against minority families. Thinking that we, as government authorities, are going to do this work alone, is going to be wrong. We also need the volunteers to help us strengthen the work against violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1035	‘In 2008, the Equal Pay Commission showed that women’s employee income represents about 65 per cent of men’s employee income. When checked for working time, women’s wages and salaries represent about 85 per cent of men’s wages and salaries. Taking into account this definition of equal pay, what is the status today, and what does the Council of State do to reduce the pay gap?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1042	The right to equal pay for work of equal value is a statutory right under Section 21 of the Equality Act. The general picture is that there has been a reduction in the pay gap in the last ten years. In 2004, women’s average wages and salaries for full-time employees were 86.6 pst. of men's wages and salaries, and in 2013 it was 87.9 pst. When part-time is included, women's average wage was 84.7 pst. of men’s wages and salaries in 2004 and 85,8 pst. in 2013. The general picture is that there's a slight decline over a decade, but from 2012 to 2013, when the representative's party was part of the government, there's been a slight increase, and there's an increase we have to follow closely. There'll be new numbers at the end of March that it's important for us to look at, given whether we've managed to reduce this. Technical estimations show that differences in the participation of women and men in employment, industry/sectoral relationship, education, work experience and competences remain important causes of different wages and salaries. Women and men are in industries with different levels of pay and contract coverage, and they have different positions in the workplace. It is, as I said, important to follow the development of women's and men's earnings. The primary responsibility for the formation of wages lies with the social partners, but the government will continue tripartite cooperation to ensure greater strength in the work on equal opportunities in the labour market. Important questions here are gender-based pay differentials, gender-based labour market and involuntary part-time. The government is concerned that more people should be able to choose non-traditional education and careers in order to contribute to a less gender-based working life. The choice of non-traditional education and training and occupations may involve and influence the level of wages and salaries of women. In the forthcoming gender equality message, with which the entire government is working, equality in the labour market will be discussed and an important topic. Measures that contribute to better equality in work will be positive to balance the pay gap that we see we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1063	The reason why we can't do anything about the equality gap is the way we organize wage formation. Today, we have a front-school model, one of which, in the light of negotiations with some groups in the world of work, comes up with a wage. So this template forms for the rest of the wage formation. One cannot lift some groups that are women-dominated and corresponding are far behind, to close this gap. The gap continues to widen. When the Equal Pay Commission presented its report, it was suggested that one from the State should go in and give a supplement, a draw pot. This was also something that the party leader Siv Jensen thought was right to assess. My question is: will the Council of State in the Notice of Gender Equality also assess some forms of social cooperation in order to increase wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1072	The pay gap or pay gap between women and men is related to both the choice of occupations, educational choices and the gender-based labour market we have in Norway. It's quite natural that this is going to be a topic in the gender equality message. I don't want to say what comes up from actions in the gender equality message, but that this is being discussed, I can promise the representative. It is important that we address this with the social partners, because it is true that all employers have a clear legal obligation to work actively and purposefully to close this gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1079	What is the reason for this is what is called value discrimination. The jobs traditionally chosen by women are systematically lower paid out of education, experience, competence and responsibility. It is especially well-being that women are largely well-paid, which are systematically lower than the classically man-dominated occupations. This means that a person is paid much more for work on pipes, cables and roads than for working with children, young people and the elderly. That's where the big difference is. My question again to the Council of State, in order to get a proper answer, is: will the Council consider entering into part-session negotiations with the social partners with the aim of contributing, for example: with a crown supplement proposed by the Equal pay Commission to close the pay gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1086	What I can assure the representative is that the government has a good and close cooperation in tripartite cooperation to ensure greater strength in the work on equal opportunities in working life. There's a job that we're going to bring to them, and this I'm not going to say anything more about here in the Storting. The representative was involved in both part-time and full-time job choices and educational choices, which are many of the reasons for the pay gap. There are often women who get worse out of this, and it's important that we now look at that gap. As I said, there has been a slight decrease in the last ten years, but in 2012–2013 there has been an increase. When we get the numbers at the end of the month, it becomes important to look at the evolution. Then we get to come back and see how we're going to follow it up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1098	‘Equality is primarily about justice. But equality is also good economic policy and gives added value to society. Women's labour input has meant much more to the Norwegian economy than the oil fund will ever mean. At the same time, we see that the government, with its tax policy, gives much greater tax cuts to men than to women. What are the consequences of the government's economic policy on the economic distribution between women and men in Norway, and hence on equality?'
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1105	High employment among women is one of the main contributions to income equality. Employment among Norwegian women is highly compared with most other countries. In the third quarter of 2014, the figure was 73.1 pst. by Norwegian women aged 15 to 64 years employed, while the average in the OECD was 57.9 pst. However, the proportion of part-time workers is also relatively high in Norway. Although part-time in itself is a reason why women have lower incomes than men, including working life with opportunities to work part-time is likely to be one of the reasons for the high participation rate among Norwegian women. Differences in income between women and men have decreased over time. For example, a report from the Institute for Social Research points to: that the pay gap measured by gross hourly earnings between the sexes has been reduced. An important driving force behind the approach has been the convergence of men and women with regard to educational choices, professional experience and working hours. Looking at the participation of men and women in education today, this points to the fact that differences can be further balanced in the future. The government will use the tax system to finance common resources in a simple and efficient way, to ensure social mobility, to improve resource use and to improve conditions for Norwegian business. This policy is the Minister of Finance who has the constitutional responsibility for it. The government will reduce the overall level of taxation, increase value creation and give greater freedom to families and individuals. Lower taxes benefit all, but the average impact for men and women may differ. It is linked to the fact that both gross income and wealth are unevenly distributed between the sexes. On average, men have higher income and wealth than women. In a progressive tax system such as Norwegian, differences in income between the sexes mean that the tax is also distributed unevenly. In this way, the tax system contributes to the balancing of income between men and women. At the same time, the reduction in taxes on income and wealth will generally result in higher rates of taxation for men than for women because they also pay more taxes initially. However, the tax system or the government’s tax changes do not discriminate between the sexes for tax purposes. Today, the tax system itself is gender neutral. It is a good and necessary feature of a tax system that a taxpayer is treated equally regardless of sex. As the representative Serigstad Valen points out, it is not only fiscal policy that affects the economic distribution between women and men. It is the totality of the government's economic policy that facilitates high levels of professional participation in women. That women are self-sufficient, I believe is absolutely central to equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1124	I would like to thank you for your answer. It's surprising that if the Council of State maintains a progressive tax system that is good for equality, then why is it that the government makes the tax system less progressive every time they have the chance. Then it is appropriate to ask what the Council of State thinks about the government budget for this year. In the autumn, the government presented its first overall government budget. Much of it went through, especially in fiscal policy. Does the Council itself believe that the budget led to more or less equality between men and women in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1131	I am fully in favour of the good budget presented by this government. The tax arrangement was a good proposal that the government presented. Then I just want to stress that the government wants – and it is probably only the SV who order the tax system not to be gender neutral. I think it's important that the tax system be gender neutral. It is a good and necessary feature of a tax system that taxpayers should be treated equally, regardless of gender. But then I would like to stress that women today have a unique opportunity to combine family life and professional life. In Norway, more women work than in many other countries. We are at the top of the world in terms of professional participation. It is a good sign of equality that women can take education, get work and be self-sustaining. I believe that the measures provided for by the government in its budget contribute to promoting equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1138	If I heard the Council of State correctly, the Council of State just said that SV is in charge of a non-sex neutral tax system. It's very eye-catching. I do not remember myself or remember that someone else in the SV has ever suggested anything like that. On the contrary, what we point out is that the changes in the tax system as it is today have very different consequences for women and for men, and that action in the tax system has an impact on equality. Therefore, I must say that the Council of State did not answer my question: Did the state budget for the current year lead to more or less equality in Norway? I'm going to try to be even more concrete so that the Council of State will understand my point: Will tax cuts for those with the highest wealth and income lead to men or women getting the best out? Is it men or women who get the best out when you cut into taxes for them with high income and wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1143	I would first like to say that I have probably misunderstood the representative, and that was not the intention at all. It is like today that there are men who often serve the most, and they are those who also have higher wealth. Again, with a gender-neutral tax system, which we have today, some men will receive more tax deductions and more wealth than if it had been different. There's something I don't want to change. There are other gender equality measures that are important to put in place, and it is getting girls to take on higher education. That's where we're going. Getting girls and women out of work, so that they become self-sustaining, will in the long run result in higher income and wealth, and result in the benefits that men have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1154	This question, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1157	‘370,000 people work in the trade in goods today, of which the majority are women. Studies show that many people in the trade in goods are at risk of having children and starting a family because of precarious working hours. With Sunday-open shops it will be even more difficult to get the cabal with working time and leisure time to go up. How can the Council of State facilitate women to combine family life and a job in the trade in goods?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1164	Women and men today have a unique opportunity to combine work and family life. Participation in the labour market and self-sufficiency are fundamental to an equal society. The representative is concerned about whether several Sunday-open shops will mean a step back for women’s ability to combine work with family life. I can assure the representative that high participation rates for both women and men are a priority objective for the government. As you know, the Minister of Culture has the constitutional responsibility for the Holiday Act, which today regulates the access of shops to open on Sundays. The Ministry of Culture has announced that they will send, at the hearing, proposals for changes to the Holiday Act to allow shops to have access to open on regular Sundays. I allow myself to mention that many shops are already open on Sundays. The government's starting point is that the law is not suitable enough to regulate the opening hours of shops, even on Sundays. Less regulation around the opening hours of shops will give greater freedom. The Minister of Culture has shown that any opening for several Sunday open shops does not need to change the individual’s priorities and time use. We trust that the actors themselves will make good choices. In addition, the Working Environment Act has limits to Sunday work. The government believes that the organisation of leisure time, inter alia: the relationship between family and work life is best resolved within the framework of the Working Environment Act and not in a code of opening hours for shops. In this context, it is also relevant to refer to what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is doing in this area. In legislative proposals, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has made proposals for changes to the Labour Environment Act aimed at facilitating participation in work and the good use of labour. As you know, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is responsible for the Labour Environment Act. The Government of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs wants to amend the provisions of the Act on working time in order to give workers and employers more opportunities to find flexible solutions locally. The government's proposals for changes to working time rules will make it easier to put in place good flexitime agreements. This may lead to an increase in women’s ability to adapt working time to their own daily and family life. It will be easier to arrange longer shifts for some weekends. For women who work the tour, it could mean more weekends and less strain on family life with many weekend shifts in a year. In other words, proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act could help to provide flexibility and freedom of choice for both women and men, making it easier to combine family life with working life. In Norway, we can be pleased to have already gone a long way in equality between women and men. Good, rusty and flexible welfare schemes such as kindergartens, cash support and the parental pension scheme give families the freedom to find themselves good, practical solutions that fit the everyday life of each family.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1190	There is a lot of talk about freedom in this debate. The question is, who is the freedom we should be most concerned with? As a representative of the Socialist Left Party, I am most concerned about the freedom of the individual worker. We have just received a report that shows that with Sunday-open shops 245,000 of the 367 000 who work in the retail sector today will be expected to work on Sundays. My question is whether this will lead to more Sunday work for even more people. Does our Minister for Gender Equality believe that there will be a need to create Sunday-open kindergartens even when more people in the goods trade have to work on Sundays?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1197	I don't think I'm going to go into kindergarten policy – it's the Minister of Knowledge who's going to take care of it. What is important is that an opening for several shops to have Sunday open-air – there are also today Sunday open-air shops – will also open up the labour market for more people. I've met a lot of immigrants, both boys and girls, who want to try out at work, who want to work. There are women who want more work, but there are also men, because it's not like there are only women who work in the trade in goods. Several Sunday-open shops will increase the number of jobs, which in turn means that more people can get income and support themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1204	It is true that there are a number of women working in the retail trade, and it is probably true that there are many who want to enter the retail trade. I recently heard that there were 100 applicants for one job at a REMA 1000 store, and it shows that there are many young people who want to go in there. My question is whether it is in line with the government's family policy that we should have a situation in the trade in goods where we don't have grown-up women with children who add, but only students about Sundays or well-adulted people who don't have children. Is it a good family policy that in a large area of working life it should not be easy for women with children to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1209	Good family policy is to have good, flexible solutions for each family. For some families, actually, Sunday-open shops can make you maybe have a day off a week, while you have to work on Sunday. It can be an advantage for families, depending on how they behave. I think it is important that we manage to have both thoughts in our head at the same time: several Sunday-open shops will lead to more people getting into work and getting income, but this may also lead to families getting more flexibility in their everyday lives. And then it has to be up to the individual family if they want to trade on a Sunday or a Wednesday or a Monday. This could mean that there are more families who are more flexible than the representative is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1220	‘Refers to previous written question No. 593 and written question No. 58 on the fee for paying by card via the automatic payment machine at many medical offices. [[2013-2014]] [[2014-2015]] The Minister of Health and Health was aware in his replies that this was undesirable and contrary to the legislation. The Ministry of Justice and Defence later concluded that this could be allowed. In other words, it pays for the patient to pay in cash rather than in cards. How can the Council of State help patients to avoid paying this extra penalty for card payment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1227	Once again, I want to be clear that it is the Stortinget who is going to determine how much patients are going to pay to use firm medical services. My main contribution in this matter will be to clarify the legislation. The follow-up of each permanent or permanent office is a municipal task. The State is not a party to the agreement between the municipality and the local authority. It is the municipality that has to assess whether the services provided by the permanent doctors on their behalf are in line with the applicable rules. However, I am in good dialogue with both the KS and the Medical Association in this matter. In a letter to Stortinget on 23 January of this year, I presented a statement from the Ministry of Justice and Defence on the possibility for permanent staff to charge a fee to patients if they pay with a card. In the letter I wrote that the decision maker has the opportunity to charge a fee, but that there are clear limitations to the costs that the fee can cover. One of the companies that hires vending machines to the permanent staff claims that their business model with a charge of NOK 5 from patients per transaction is in line with the applicable legislation. I do not dispute, as I said, that the decision maker can charge a transaction fee, but I react to the amount of the fee. I have communicated this to the company concerned, to the KS and to the Medical Association, all of whom are involved in the matter. There should be no doubt as to what the health authorities think. That is why both the Health Directorate and the Health Administration have published information about this on their websites. I have also asked the Health Directorate to follow up the question of the amount of the fee to the company in question. I see that vending machines can be time-saving for patients, while the health professionals who serve the patients in the waiting room are given free time. This may be a more rational way of organising work at the permanent agency. My point is that the decision-makers cannot push the entire bill for this on the patient's self-interest, while they themselves are left with the gain of the time that is released. I hope that the dialogue between the Health Directorate and the company in question will help to reduce the fee significantly, or that the company will stop offering this model. When we know the outcome, I will assess whether further action is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1249	I think the Health Minister here has a good plan. I might want to hear a little bit more about what time perspective you're using. I understand that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the fast doctors, but I think it would be a great advantage to have a consistent practice, so that one does not have different practices from the municipality to the municipality and from the doctor's office to the doctor's office. So it worries me a little bit that it is accepted that a transaction fee is charged as long as this is obviously economical for the individual doctor's office, and that it is most appropriate that a person should use cards rather than cash. My question to the Council of State is: What is the time perspective he sees for when he concludes here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1258	The judge from the Ministry of Justice came in January, and we have already, as I said in my first answer, started a work with the KS and the Medical Association and given feedback on our interpretation of this to the company concerned. Information is already available on the HELFO and Health Directorate’s websites. I hope that this now leads to a change in practice, but, as I said in my previous answer, we must also follow that. With regard to the question of having a transaction fee, it is that it is provided for in the Finance Act, and that is also the reason why the Ministry of Justice came to an adjusted version of what was my first response to this to the representative. So what is related to the Financial Contracts Act is also not under the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1265	I have also understood that this is regulated by other laws. But my concern as a generalist politician is that this too can have a contagion effect. This is what we see in a number of other areas where you evaluate similar transaction fees. Faced with a desire to move to a cash-free society, this seems a little pointless, to say it like that. My challenge and my question to the Minister is whether he wants to talk to his colleagues and also discuss the possibility of taking this kind of fees both at medical offices and other places, so we don't get a contagion effect here with hidden peculiarities and transaction fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1272	Questions related to the Financial Agreements Act are issues that one should address with the Minister of Justice. What I'm concerned about is that patients don't feel that it's other than the Storing that decides what to do with health care. Therefore, we believe that the way the law is now, a transaction fee can be charged in the same way as a transaction fee when a person pays with cards in some places. But letting the entire cost of this new technological development be reduced to patients, while the firm office clearly has an advantage of released time, is a development I don't think is in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1281	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Oslo, only 91 per cent of 16-year-olds have completed the paediatric vaccination programme. In some groups and areas, coverage is even lower. There is concern that we can have more outbreaks of infectious diseases like measles. There have also been up to 100 cases of tuberculosis in the year in Oslo, which is no longer part of the general programme. How does the Council of State view the possibility of introducing a pilot project with a compulsory paediatric vaccination programme in Oslo, and against which diseases, if any, should be vaccinated?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1290	We are very excited about the paediatric vaccination programme in Norway today. The outbreaks of measles elsewhere in the world that we've seen lately have shown that we have to work to maintain the high level of coverage in Norway. Our health system is based on trust and openness. People have to make their own choices, of course based on advice from health authorities. In the case of the paediatric vaccination programme, the health care services do the most important information job. The health sisters meet parents and children every day, and our health centres have passed 100 p.m. digestion. I believe that the attention given to this matter recently will also help parents to become more aware of the consequences of not vaccinating their children. I believe that coercion is not the way to go – that is my clear opinion. If we introduce mandatory child vaccination, vaccination creators could say that the directive comes because the arguments for vaccination are not good enough for people to vaccinate their children voluntarily. In the longer term, a directive could lead to a lower termination of the programme. In any case, the skeptics will be able to apply for an exemption or do not respond to vaccination. Child vaccination is voluntary and should remain so in Norway. We need an open debate to maintain confidence in the programme in the population. In this way, I am pleased that the representative has asked the question in the Questionnaire. I would like to welcome suggestions on how together we can contribute to the highest possible uptake of the paediatric vaccination programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1301	Thank you very much for your answer. If you look at the overviews that include: In the last few days, the evening post is located in the lower part of the lower part of Norway in terms of vaccination coverage in European and western countries, at 91 p.m., as mentioned above. The issue of compulsory programmes or offers – which we are going to convince as much as possible that they have to be included, which I fully agree with the Council of State – may well be a little more reason to reflect on. We have e.g. compulsory school in Norway, and whose children become seriously ill, it is of course mandatory for them to be treated, that parents cannot refuse it. It may well be that we should protect the child first and foremost by having compulsory vaccination and protect society – what is called the best possible flock protection – by having compulsory vaccination. I guess it's not so obvious that we can't have the child's consideration and the consideration of society as a primary principle in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1306	I think I have the basic idea that it is primarily to disseminate knowledge, consequences and attitudes that are important in those kinds of issues. Then it is not least important to base this on trust, trust between health authorities and the population, because there are also situations where we have to ask people to come and be vaccinated – in crisis situations – and to create the attitude that this is something that the state can force on the population, I am afraid of just undermining the trust that we are totally dependent on. We also need to provide people with better information that this is not just for their own child, but also in solidarity with other children, for example. children who have allergies and who cannot be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1311	I thank you for that answer. The question is then, when the Council of State does not want to go into the trial of compulsory schemes — as it is in some countries that have a lot higher coverage than us — what else we can do to reach out. I think that the proportion that doesn't vaccinate their children because of a conscious thought and philosophy around taking vaccines, doesn't necessarily make up the majority of those who don't. There are other reasons, for example: lack of information, lack of knowledge and lack of follow-up. My question, then, is what will the Council of State do as an alternative in order to achieve a better outcome, and whether it is appropriate to extend the vaccination programme, such as: hepatitis B vaccine is available to all. In addition, it has been relevant to offer HPV vaccines also to male children, and also to tuberculosis, there is concern that we are not reaching the groups that the vaccine should reach as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1316	Large studies with register link have now been started by researchers at the Swedish Institute of Public Health, among others. the intention to identify factors that result in low or high levels of vaccination coverage in different population groups. There is also continuous information work on parental information on websites and via brochures, and the main brochures are also translated into a number of languages, as well as book goals, new Norwegian and Sami. The main information job is done by the health sisters, and much of the Public Health Institute’s vaccination counselling is intended to keep the health sisters up to date on the knowledge they need to meet with parents and children in connection with vaccination. It is also the case that we are now working on a separate medical report for Stortinget. Issues related to the extension of the vaccination programme will also be addressed there, while there is always a question based initially on recommendations from the Public Health Institute and will be addressed next time in the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1327	This question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1330	‘The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has, on two occasions, highlighted the need to streamline the increased use of temporaryity in the Working Environment Act, as required by the investigative instructions. This is because women are hit more than men. The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has on several occasions expressed her confidence that the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has carried out the necessary investigations. What do these investigations show, and what have been the consequences of their legislative work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1337	The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has in Prop. 39 L for 2014-2015 submitted proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, including proposals for access to temporary employment of up to 12 months on a general basis. This may help to facilitate access to the labour market for several of those who are currently struggling to get into work. It's part of the government's policy to include more people in the ordinary world of work. In the proposal, the Ministry has assessed the impact of the proposal on both equality and other aspects. However, it is not possible to draw any clear conclusions on the impact on employment, but it is assumed that there will be no significant consequences. Of those temporarily employed today, women make up about 60 pst. Most are employed as temporary workers, many of them in the public sector. If the government's proposal leads to more temporary positions in the private sector, this could lead to an increase in the proportion of men in temporary posts, as men are in the majority in the private sector. There are more women than men who have reduced working capacity and receive health-related benefits. These are groups that may benefit from the proposal. Caring for yourself through its own income is fundamental to an equal society. The Government's proposal is a contribution to achieving this objective. High levels of employment among both women and men are the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare state. It is important for the government to make the way into working life easier through flexible and predictable legislation. The government believes that there is a need for more knowledge of the functioning of temporary employment in the Norwegian labour market, including its impact on women and men, respectively. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has therefore concluded a multi-annual research agreement to provide for increased knowledge of developments in working life in atypical forms of association in relation to permanent employment and the effects of changes in legislation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will monitor developments in the use of temporary employment in the labour market and will continuously assess further needs for research and investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1352	I thank you for your answer. But the Council of State does not answer the question that was asked. The study guide makes clear the need to assess the impact of gender equality on any case submitted. I can't see that you've actually done that investigation here. Then the question to the Minister of Knowledge, who is usually concerned with knowledge, is: why is knowledge not interesting in this context? Is it because it's about equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1359	As I said in my answer, the proposition has assessed the impact of the proposal on both equality and other issues. And the fact that it is not possible to draw any clear conclusions about the impact on employment equality does not mean that the investigation work and evaluation have not been done. It simply means that the assessment is that the material cracks in different directions and that it is then difficult to come to a clear conclusion. So my answer, as in the first answer, is that this is taken care of by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the proposition that has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1366	I understand that the Minister of Knowledge cannot go directly into this, since he does not have the constitutional responsibility for it. However, the investigation manual requires something more than an assessment in a legislative proposal. There must be something behind it. In particular, the gender equality ombudsman, who should represent a professional body that has some bearing on these issues, says: «The proposed changes to temporaryity will increase the vulnerability of women to work and increase the risk of discrimination in relation to pregnancy and parental leave. Our cases show that being temporarily employed makes you extra vulnerable to pregnancy discrimination.’ Is the Equality Ombudsman wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1380	I have not entered and carried out an assessment of the research material available here on my own basis and weighed it against each other. But I find that the ministry has carried out an assessment of the impact of the proposal. I guess that's the way it's often with research, that the evidence is not unique. It is at least the case in social research that it can often be difficult to put two lines in the answer. Whether the Committee on Gender Equality and Discrimination has a good and solid research document for its very clear and clear claim, I dare not consider it now. But it's not impossible at all that there are other perspectives of this, which can also be covered with some research findings.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1391	My question goes to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘How will the Council of State develop policy and future agricultural policy to ensure that food production is increased in Norwegian resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1398	The government wants to facilitate increased food production. And good use of agricultural land is the basis for that. What is produced is either plant products for food directly, or feed for animals that give us animal products. Animal feed of about 90 pst is produced. of our agricultural area. When we see roughage and power feed combined, it's about 80 pst. of the animal feed produced in Norway. At the same time, agriculture has always needed to import some feed raw materials. This applies in particular to protein, in order to obtain good quality of the feed. Here we have small Norwegian production, especially after we banned the use of meat-and-bone meal in the power feed. I am glad that the feed developers are increasingly making feed recipes that increase performance and productivity. It is absolutely necessary that this work continues, even if it gives some imports. Farmers do what they pay. There is a healthy and natural driving force in all industries. Essentially, the representative deals with Pollestad’s questions about the size of the feed grain production and imports of protein raw materials. Increased livestock production will provide increased market opportunities for farmers producing fodder grain and protein crops. Land productivity needs to be increased. It must be invested in the earth. But I don't have any fundamental opposites to the fact that there are imported raw materials we can't produce ourselves. I would also like to point out that many other operating resources in their entirety have been imported, without me recording the corresponding concerns. The representative of Pollestad is well aware that the cereal and feed policy is a balance which is also difficult for agriculture. The increase in the cereal price is an increase in the income of cereal farmers, but a corresponding increase in the cost of livestock farmers. In order to increase production, it is important that operational farmers have the freedom to develop and use their resources and to improve profitability. Therefore, we changed the grant profile and increased some coverage last year, so that the adjustments can be made more according to what the resources of the use provide. Norway is a grassland. Nevertheless, it is beef and lamb that we have under-covered. I believe that the changes in last year's settlement will stimulate many to expand production. In this way, we will both better meet consumer demand and increase the use of Norwegian resources, including grazing resources in the outland. Of course, I cannot get into this year's agricultural settlement until May, which I believe is fully understood by the representative Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1409	I thank you for your answer. Yesterday I received a report from Spire, the youth of the Development Fund. They made a report called Soyaland. Here are many interesting suggestions on how to increase production on Norwegian resources. Now it's not like it's just Spire that's concerned about this. A majority at Stortinget said the following in the 2014 farm settlement statement: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, indicate that real increases in self-sufficiency depend on increased food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. This must be taken into account in the formulation of agricultural policy.’ My follow-up question is: How does this comment affect the work and preparation of the farm structure that is now taking place in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1423	It's like Norway has a food grain area, or a food ground area, of 3 pst. of the country, while over 40 pst. is suitable for grazing. This means that if we are to make more use of Norwegian resources, it is about investing in animal species that can exploit that type of feed resource. It has facilitated this government by increasing the investment in sheep and making it more economically lucrative to bet within that industry, especially for those who want to invest more. So it's like some of our animal species are power-feed intensive. Pigs and chicken are examples of that. You can then choose whether you want to import raw materials into the feed or whether you want to import finished pig and chicken products from abroad. For me, it is important to facilitate the production of pigs and chicken in Norway, and that means that the need for power feed will be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1430	I thank you again for the answer. I also understand that there is a need for power feed in Norwegian food production. I remember the agricultural settlement last year, it ended up in Stortinget, and the Council of State was overrun both in terms of the level, support and essential point of the device. My follow-up question is a little bit more about how to expect it this spring, because now the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right have been at a kind of life course in the Nydalen and discussed the forms of cooperation in the future. Then my question is, how does the Council of State intend to settle this year? Will a few offers to agriculture that has a political majority on the Stortinget behind it, or does it intend to implement the settlement in accordance with the model of last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1439	It's not natural for me to go into the farm business this year. I believe that the representative Pollestad has great respect for this, because it is a work that is now to be carried out in the future. The figures from the subject of the budget come only after Easter, and that is the basis for the work that we are going to do. As for the 2014 agricultural settlement, on which the representative was involved, I was very pleased with the results we got there. It was a revolution in the course that is just stimulating increased production, and I think we're going to see the results of that in the years that are coming. So I wasn't going to answer parts of the previous question to the representative Pollestad, about how to develop feed ingredients in Norway. There we fully agree that to the extent that we can manage to reduce imports by making it possible to have profitable productions in Norway, for example. protein, we want it, and that is also why we are betting on research and innovation. It's a separate project at Ås called Foods of Norway, and I hope that it can deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1452	The question to Minister for Agriculture and Food Listhaug is as follows: ‘In spring 2014, a unanimous nutrition committee asked the government for a comprehensive soil protection plan. In this context, the Council of State wrote: ‘I, together with the local government sector, will assess instruments for the best possible planning and conservation of the land’. The Ministry’s website says that work is under way on a comprehensive strategy for soil protection. Is there any emphasis in this work on the fact that the best food soil is in a few of our municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1461	It is right that the representative, Rasmus Hansson, points out that work on a strategy for soil protection is under way. We also follow up the government's political platform, which says that we should take care of good food, but balance soil protection against the needs of the big society. In this context, I would like to stress that we have established contact with the KS as a representative of the municipal sector, and that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food tomorrow is organising a land and soil protection conference in Oslo, in cooperation with the KS. The food soil can be classified in several ways, including: from what it is to be used for. The production of cereals, and in particular the production of cereals, is a very important production for self-sufficiency. People have largely settled where it has been and are good soil resources, and it is in such areas the expansionary pressure from an increasing population is often greater. That is also why in such areas we face the most difficult balances between different considerations. The soil protection strategy shall be based on the challenges we face with regard to soil protection and shall propose measures to address them. I aim that the soil protection strategy will be presented to Stortinget before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1474	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response and look forward to the arrival of the soil protection strategy before the summer. We need that. As the Council of State pointed out, it is precisely in the large municipalities with much of the best food resources that the pressure is greatest. Although there is a great deal of competence in many municipalities to handle this, we see pressure in the municipality after the municipality – and perhaps even more so than before. The Tanum plateau in Bærum, in Drammen it is planned to be built, the Dæhlijord in Vestby, the Nordbyjord in Skedsmo, etc. are examples of areas that are under pressure right now. One of the main reasons why this is a problem is that food soil is less valuable as food than if you put a layer of asphalt on top of it and park a car there. This difference in prices is a driver for choosing no solutions other than building down our best food soil. Several proposals have been made for a degradation charge for food soils that will balance this price change. Would the Council consider such a charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1481	Now we're going to work on the soil protection strategy, and there's also a report and an investigation from Aplan Viak that we want to look at, of course, so that's questions we need to get back to. What I think is a big point is that the municipality structure in Norway also does not support the fact that we are taking care of the earth. If you drive from Oslo to Eidsvollsbyggen, you pass six municipalities, six municipalities fighting for residents, who fight for business, who fight for the growth that is in this area. I think that's a problem for soil protection because you don't see completely on a larger area. I think that only we had achieved the municipal reform that we are in the process of, in a good way, would it contribute positively to soil protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1486	I notice that there are very many of the country's problems that the government wants to solve by merging municipalities. I am not as convinced that it will work well. It's an interesting starting point that we have a law of land in this country, adopted here, that says: ‘Arable land must not be used for purposes which are not intended for agricultural production. Arable land must not be disposed of in such a way that it is not owned for agricultural production in the future.» Nevertheless, we have a development that is in conflict with what is in our own soil law. In Switzerland they have solved this by protecting 40 pst. of the best food soil through a comprehensive plan for the protection of the food soil. They have criteria for food protection in projects that are of particular importance to society: the most efficient use of land compared to all other non-recovery of land lost shall be physically replaced; These are requirements that must be met in order to be able to build up food soils in Switzerland. Is the Council willing to assess such categorisation in a food plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1512	Now I think it is important that the government gets to work on that plan. So we're going to come back with a suggestion, and then we're going to have to take those discussions. What I want to point out is that there are many other things that have made the pressure on the food soil stronger. For example, the mark limit, which is important in many of the municipalities that are just in the strata where one sees a lot of valuable food soil, leaves many municipalities with one alternative: that they have to build up food soils. And here's a couple of things that play out considering that we've got the situation that's now. That's how people like to live in central strata, they want to live where this good food soil is, and even if we have a lot of land in Norway, it doesn't help as long as people don't want to live in those places where it's easier to expand. For this government, it is important to strike a good balance between the need to take care of food and at the same time to take into account the needs of society, for example, the development of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1521	I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘The Government has notified the introduction of master-level 5 year teacher training from 2017. For the time being, it is very unclear how the structure of a new master’s education should be. The requirements for depression will affect the number and subjectship of students. How will the Council of State continue to ensure adequate recruitment in all teaching subjects beyond the basic subjects of Norwegian, Math and English?’
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1530	I have to agree with the premise of the representative Tingelstad Wøien, and it is that some things are still unclear about the construction of a new five-year teacher training course, which we intend to introduce in 2017. However, this is a relationship that we are working to fully clarify. I have recently set up a framework plan selection to propose a structure that is in line with the Teachers' Lift – Team for the Knowledge School. The committee presented its proposal in November. By means of normal consultation and decision-making, much of the structure will be defined and the new elementary school teacher training will be a five-year integrated teacher training. Although it is decided that Norwegian, mathematics and English are the master's thesis to be given priority, of course, teacher training will also consist of the other subjects that we have decided to include in primary education. By doing so, I simply believe that the new five-year teacher training courses should be multi-disciplinary courses that meet the school's need for teaching skills. It is quite natural that students are given teaching skills in several disciplines, because the master's degree only partially says something about what the education should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1537	Thanks for the answer. I know that the Council of State has put down this framework plan committee, and we're really excited about what they're going to add up to when they make their recommendation in November. The background to my question is — as the Council of State has probably observed — that in the last few months I have been traveling around Norway for a little while and at very many of the country’s teacher training institutions, and out there there has been uncertainty and uncertainty as to the introduction of the five-year master’s training in teacher training. Some have been said about how a person wants to build it up, what subject he wants to have masters in, and I wonder how the Council of State will ensure that the effect of masters' training and more stringent requirements for teaching skills and intensification of the possibility of dispensation from them will not lead to an increase in the number of unskilled teachers also in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1546	A five-year master's education and the new skills requirements that we have now sent to the Stortinget will not, I believe, lead in itself to a greater need for unskilled people, but it is already too many non-teacher-qualified people who take temporary courses and jobs in the Norwegian school. The cooperation parties took action in view of this in the 2015 state budget. It's 50 million today. kr within the State budget, which is to be used this year just to target those who work in school but do not have learning qualifications. This could be done, for example, by: be anything from professional teachers who lack vocational education and training to those who have a bachelor's degree and jobs in school, but lack pedagogy. I believe that the cooperation parties are doing well to address the big challenge; that there are too many who are not qualified teachers, who are still working in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1551	If we see that model from Tromsø, it's set up to be able to choose some subjects, and that some subjects should be mandatory. These are the basic subjects on which the compulsory subjects to be chosen by the teacher students in the field of education have been identified. There was an article in Bergen's Official Journal around Christmas, I think, where, among other things. stated that a survey by the SSB on teacher competence in 1999, 2005 and 2014 showed negative developments, especially for the arts and crafts sectors. It's these subjects that are called a little dope in school, which we've had little emphasis on in recent years, which concerns me in particular about the breadth of competence. So in 2014 it was nearly 70 pst. of the teachers under the age of 30 who teach art and crafts at primary school, who did not have a single score in the subject. In 2005, the figure was 50 pst. This worries me a lot. The creative subjects also provide better learning in other subjects, it has proved to be, so I wonder how the council will ensure that, for example. the arts, crafts and practical aesthetics do not really become a school customs profession, especially in the case of youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1558	The practical and aesthetic subjects, art and crafts have an important, natural and, of course, place in the Norwegian school. If someone tries to claim that there are subjects that are "customs", they're wrong. This is an important part of the competence to be given by primary schools in Norway. Today it is subject to both practical elements and theoretical elements, so it is not purely practical subjects or purely theoretical subjects. I fully agree that it is a problem that there are very few who have depression in e.g. arts and crafts. I'm not a stranger to the fact that, after we introduce skills requirements and strengthen the skills requirements in Norwegian, English and mathematics, we also have to look at skills requirements for other subjects in school, but I think we have to do one thing at a time, and first of all we have said that the most important thing, and what we do first, is Norwegian, mathematics and English. So I'm open to that discussion, although it can also create some practical problems in schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1565	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-03-04.ana.ud824e1578	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
