ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e22	The representatives Lise Christoffersen, Nikolai Astrup and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative Peter Christian Frölich shall apply for parental leave from 5 October to 23 October and from 2 November to 18 December. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Truls Wickholm, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the leave of the representative Jens Stoltenberg, from 5 October to 18 December, due to parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet from 5 October to 18 December: for Hordaland County Charlotte Spurkeland. For Oslo Prableen Kaur.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e62	Charlotte Spurkeland and Prableen Kaur are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e70	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e73	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will put forward a proposal for a new system for the settlement of refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e78	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e81	I would like, on behalf of Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Geir Pollestad and myself, to put forward proposals to ensure the quality of maternity care and the framework funding of maternity wards and clinics.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e86	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e90	I am delighted to make two proposals – one proposal on behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and myself on mandatory pro-milestones for pilots and cabin crews and one proposal on behalf of Line Henriette Hämdal, Anders Tyvand, Hanne Thürmer and myself to develop their own Barna transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e95	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e98	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Heidi Greni and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to stop all forced dispatching of Norwegian citizens for housing in prison in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e103	The representative, Mr Andersen Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e106	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I would like to propose a national strategy for bees and pollination.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e111	The representative, Jonas Gahr Støre, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e114	On behalf of the representatives of the big business Dag Terje Andersen, Terje Aasland, Marianne Marthinsen, Eirin Sund, Eigil Knutsen, Ingrid Heggø, Else-May Botten and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for temporary changes to the permit law to meet developments in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e119	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 25 September 2015: «Temporary Board of the Ministry of Knowledge We refer to our letter of 8 April 2015 where we state what periods Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will complete parental leave. We draw attention to the fact that the Council of State will not terminate leave the following days: Friday 25 September Wednesday 30 September Friday 2 October»
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e137	The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e151	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will take place over two days starting with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes followed by a row of up to six lines, then 44 posts of up to 5 minutes, which will be completed in full on the first day of the debate, and will be distributed among the parties as follows: Working Party 14 posts, Right 12 posts, Advance Party 7 posts, Christian People's Party 3 posts, Center Party 3 posts, Left 3 posts and Socialist Left Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Sitting of Tuesday, 10 a.m. 10 a.m. and starts with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes with a subsequent row of up to 13 lines. Then follow any remaining three-minute speeches from today's meeting, as well as those coming in during Tuesday's debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e170	Our country will meet many major tasks in the years to come. For all of them, whether there is growing unemployment, the need for economic and social change, the transition to the low-carbon society or the reception and integration of people on the run, Norway is equipped to meet these challenges. We can solve these problems and take care of these possibilities. It assumes that we are mobilizing the strengths of Norwegian society – the power of what we can achieve together, that we understand what we are made of both countries and people. The working party is a constructive opposition party. When the government makes proposals that we think are best for the country, we will support them. We are open to contribute to good and wide settlements – with the government and between the parties on the Stortinget. When we disagree, we will promote our own alternatives. The growing unemployment rate is a cause for concern. Over 120000 is out of work, and that's the highest number over 20 years. These are individuals and families who are now facing insecurity. The working party knows what it says. Having a job to get up to gives the day meaning and creates dignity for people. We believe that the government has done too little and acted too late in meeting with increasing unemployment. We cannot determine the oil price, but we can act specifically to take care of those who become unemployed. The Labour Party is today promoting proposals to extend the leave period from 30 to 52 weeks, as we did successfully in 2009. We should strengthen measures for training within and outside enterprises, so that we take good care of the skills, in particular to take care of young people and to prevent youth unemployment from breaking down. We cannot and should not subsidize individual companies, but we can support activities in industries that are struggling. Before the summer, the Workers' Party promoted a proposal to upgrade the shuttle in the West. The Coast Guard shall maintain and renew parts of its fleet. We hope to support our proposals. We cannot pick tomorrow's winners, but we can pursue a more active business policy, supporting the clusters with strong natural opportunities. The Workers' Party has promoted a number of proposals to strengthen the knowledge, research and technology programmes that can support enterprises in transition, those that focus on new solutions and technologies, in particular by investing in climate and environmental issues. In the census, the concept of ‘conversion’ is used as a measure we are now going to take – as if Norwegian enterprises, the public sector and our workers have not continuously lived with and will continue to do so. The many who live a life in transition deserve to be seen by the government, and they deserve political leadership that stands up with drag and fixation. Meeting with growing unemployment and the need for change requires that we understand what is now happening to businesses and people at work. In the guise of the Norwegian government the Norwegian model. High employment and low unemployment are referred to as a base wall. Equal distribution is presented as one of the prerequisites for successful conversion. The Labour Party agrees. It is wise to put their trust in the Norwegian model in difficult times, but then it is equally unwise to weaken the model's foundation and functioning. We saw it in the changes to the Working Environment Act, towards a co-ordinated employee side, with weakened job protection, unpaid overtime and more temporaryity. We regularly see it in how the social partners are not consulted on important issues relating to them. The government can in words praise even distribution in a throne, but the contrast in reality is great. We saw that in the government's draft budget last autumn. Half of the tax cuts would be due to the country's 5 pst. Richest. The government has closed its ears to professional advice, and the reaction of the country's leading economists has been unison: it is difficult to get into tax cuts that are less conducive to growth and more conducive to differences. This is the wrong course for Norway. Increased differences are now warning both the IMF and the OECD. It reduces the ability to convert. The government shows little understanding of a society as it changes. It doesn't seem to be for the Norwegian model's results if we don't recognise what it's made of, or understand what can unbalance the model. We are now experiencing the greatest influx of refugees into Europe. The pictures and the direct meetings with mothers, fathers and children on the run make a deep impression. Norway shall assume its responsibilities. Norway shall accept persons entitled to protection. Norway shall demonstrate in practice what we put in guiding principles such as humanity, co-responsibility and solidarity. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says that up to 1.4 million refugees will arrive at the maritime route to Europe this year and next year. Evolution will hardly turn back until the war ends and destruction and misery can be turned back into reconstruction. It is a special responsibility of the world’s leading powers. They must find solutions on the ground – do not bomb each of their parts of Syria from the air. People who come to Norway after a dramatic flight are about to start a new journey – into our society where they're going to live with us, and together we're going to be part of a bigger we. It is our common responsibility that this succeeds. The receiver was not dimensioned for the increase that came in August. We understand that it takes time to rig the capacity. But now it's taken too long. On two occasions in the form of a letter to the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister, Red Cross has notified that the situation is unacceptable. The government cannot point to a split-off receiver in the third month. Now there must be action that will do. The municipality is crucial for so many services. The choice we have behind us, underlined it – people's legitimate expectations for kindergarten, school, health, care for the elderly and a healthy local environment. The result was a clear signal that the majority would have a different course from that of government. They want a course that prioritises work and well-being rather than tax cuts, good services where people live, rather than centralisation. It is also in the municipalities that it is decided whether we succeed in integrating. In the Syria Agreement, six parties commit themselves to strengthening financial support to municipalities in order to achieve better settlement and integration. The Labour Party is ready to follow up this consensus, and we expect a clear commitment to this in the 2016 budget. The Prime Minister has appealed to a wide variety of cases. She has encouraged the municipalities to accept well those to be settled. The working party ends up with this appeal. Good integration also requires a much larger number of people to rethink. In a square in Ålesund in mid-August, Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen invited the municipalities to refuse to accept more people to settle. She said that if many people said no, you could stop the Syria agreement. The size was not total when the government's number 2 said this. Now we're together. Therefore, I ask from this speaker and expect answers from the same location: Is the Minister of Finance still standing at the invitation to say no – that municipalities should stop receiving quota refugees and other refugees? What will happen to those who are now sent to 50 new receptions that the government will create? That's what the Storting deserves. Finally, this harvest will be a time of fate for the climate, and it will be a time of fate for the globe. In Paris, the world shall try to reconcile agreements and obligations as monies to cut emissions. Here at home, we are in a hurry to make our contribution to reducing Europe's emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. We need political leadership out there, but also at home. It is urgent to set targets and plans to succeed on the road towards 2030. Next year is the first year of a 15 year active effort to achieve these goals. We cannot wait for the government to negotiate with the EU until we start to implement the cut. The working party is ready to carry out cuttings as monks. The challenge is great, but here, like in other areas, we can meet it if we use the forces together.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e215	It was an interesting post by the representative Gahr Støre. On behalf of the Right, I would like to thank you for the futility that was behind it when he pointed out that it was not the government that was responsible for the large fall in the oil price and that was directly responsible for the development of the Norwegian labour market. The same might not be said about taking responsibility for controlling the country through the changeover. The four non-socialist parties talked a lot about the need for conversion into the Norwegian economy before the 2013 elections, and we have followed this up through both words and action. When the Workers' Party first arrived late on the track, it seemed that conversion is just something that happens to itself all the time. Snorre Serigstad Valen stated to the class struggle on 11 September 2014 that ‘in the second period, the willingness to make changes confused’. So this was in the second red-green period. The Labour Party has recently been very busy talking about ‘too little, too late’, but when the budget was launched last year, we were criticized for spending too much money. At the national meeting, Jonas Gahr did not use a single word on unemployment. When was the Workers' Party discovered that the need for conversion was present that the government had talked about for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e226	Tens of years ago. Conversion is ongoing in Norwegian business and working life every week, every day. If the representative had followed up on what's going on in the workplace, he would see that it's such a transformation. Now unemployment goes down to ten counties, and that's because businesses are in transition. The public sector is in strong transition. We got through the financial crisis with fewer unemployed – we kept employment high. We need a new conversion now, and especially in parts of the country that are exposed to difficult times, related to the oil price drop. Thanks for the fact that the article was well received, and that it was perceived as a voice. I think it's nice to take you on the way. Our criticism last year was not primarily that the government spent too much money. We thought they spent more oil money than they needed, but they used them wrong. The large cuts in property taxes do not produce investment results, as their own investigations and independent researchers show. They could have been using other things — to support entrepreneurs and to support activities for the industries that are now struggling and need new activity. It's been our comment all along. Therefore, it is with interest that we await the budget that is now coming – whether it has proper use of money, and whether it has proper measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e235	I see that the class struggle today has a big look with a number of so-called experts, trade union economists, who prescribe the following solution, namely to increase the wealth tax and reintroduce the inheritance tax, in order to reduce the differences in Norway. I do not know if there are any proposals to which the representative Gahr Støre will join. It's kind of funny, this right here, because the representative Gahr Støre is talking about conversion as something that happens by itself all the time. Yes, of course, there are changes – things happen. But the right does not have a laissez faire approximation to this. We want to be proactive. We are consciously talking about the need for changes to meet reduced activity in the oil sector. At Gahr Støre, it seems that only the measures of the Workers' Party are included in a campaign, or a little late after the government, which actually contributes to a necessary conversion. Does the representative Gahr Støre see that it is actually this government that has been working on all the time, namely pointing to the need to convert Norway into a green economy, to another development?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e242	I see that the government is pointing at it all the time, but I think some of the measures are wrong. Let me add that some of the measures are right, and we support them about. In those areas where we can agree, the Workers' Party must give wholehearted support. But I think, for example, having a transition to a society with greater differences weakens the adaptability. I am listening to what is not exactly social-democratic thinking – the OECD, the IMF, the World Economic Forum – which now has as its first priority the avoidance of increased differences, because it reduces the ability to adapt. So now we're going to have a tax reform this week, on a proposal from the government. And then we'll look at the whole thing. The Labour Party has said that the inheritance fee that was, we do not want to reintroduce. We are against the cuts that have been in the wealth tax, and believe that wealth is part of what should be taxed in a way that lives up to good principles in our tax system – the one with the strongest shoulders takes the heaviest should. What you have received from your own research on what the cuts in the wealth tax contribute to the economy should lead to a self-explanation that you have used the large money incorrectly. They could have been used differently, both for well-being and for activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e249	The representative Gahr Støre used the introduction to his article just to talk about the development of unemployment and especially in the oil and gas sectors. It is primarily in the coastal regions from East-Agder to More and Romesdal that we see an increase in unemployment, while in fact we have major regional differences: in ten counties there is either stable or lower unemployment this year than we had at the same time last year. The increase in unemployment is largely targeted at the oil and gas sectors, and over the last few years, the representative Gahr Støre, whether through summer camp posts or in various interviews, has created uncertainty about the Labour Party's policy in this field. Almost no matter what Gahr Støre comes with now, it's too small and too late. But I will allow the representative Gahr Støre to elaborate on what you actually mean. Does he mean that we should continue at least at the same rate, put in place more search areas to ensure the development of this industry? Or is there another version we're going to hear today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e256	Let me first grasp what the representative says, that when it goes well in several states, domestic states, except for the sector that is now affected, it suggests that we have a quite adaptable business. It was not a measure that they turned on last fall because oil prices fell, so they have made it clear across a period when part of the economy was very driven by a high oil price. It shows that we have an ability out there if we put it into practice. I am now recording that the government is running the oil and gas policy largely on the basis of the news of big business that I belonged to, provided just before we left. The working party is dependent on a high and stable level of activity, while continuing what we have shown over many years, that we can pursue a policy in the climate and environment that uses instruments to reduce emissions. We introduced the CO2 tax on the base – against the votes of today’s government party. We have implemented a wide range of measures to ensure that Norway can produce oil and gas, but with emissions falling. I think that's a wise move to continue, while at the same time being involved in taking on the international commitments, hopefully, that the Paris Agreement can lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e266	I am pleased that the representative and party leader Jonas Gahr Støre spends a lot of time on the refugee situation we have in Europe. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says it is ‘a moment of truth’ for Europe. Gahr Støre was also quite decisive that in our decision to accept 8,000 refugees, a decision that turned out to be very correct. But it is also another asylum debate we have had in Norway in the last year. That's because the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party got in place a permanent improved solution for the asylum-children, a solution that Gahr Støre has also said positively about. But when one of the top experts in this field, lawyer Arild Humlen, got the question of whether he believed a lasting solution would be possible with the Labour Party in government, he replied no, and added that we were now out of an ice age when it applied to the rights of the asylum children. My question to the representative Gahr Støre is, what do you think this is going to come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e276	I am not sure that the lawyer Humlen is the best witness of truth for what has happened internally in the Workers' Party and through our reign. We made a big message about kids on the run. We put the leaders there to assess how the legislation was practiced. Our government went off in 2013. Had we remained in government, it would have been on our guard to evaluate it and look at a change in legislation. We have responded by saying that the consensus that the four parties have reached – after a long time and with some curvatures in that connection, to which I shall leave behind – is a consensus we can join. On that basis, there is broad agreement on the broad lines of the refugee and asylum policy in this Chamber, which is something new, and which I believe is good for pursuing a consistent policy. So the Workers' Party ends up all about it. We had a country meeting with a lot of commitment around this case -- we had that last year, we had that this year, it's in our party organization, and it's going to last. We're going to have a humane policy, we're going to have a consistent policy, and we're going to live up to the responsibilities of today's extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e281	The representative Gahr Støre addressed important issues relating to increasing unemployment, as well as the question of refugees and asylum seekers and the way we receive them in Norway. There are many important tasks ahead of us in the coming year. One of those tasks is also related to a slightly different area: the issue of Norway joining an international service agreement, TISA, and the question of whether we should also join a free trade agreement between the United States and the EU, the so-called TTIP. There are agreements that can change both public administration, our national political space and the judiciary. We risk that public services that are privatised cannot be returned to the public sector if a political majority in municipalities, in counties or in the Storting will. We also risk that the international group can sue Norway without going through the Norwegian legal system. My question to the Workers' Party is: What is the Labour Party's position on these agreements, and in what way will the Workers' Party contribute to more transparency on these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e290	It is sad that a comprehensive trade agreement has not been achieved, which was launched in Doha in the early 2000s. So now we're going to have individual agreements in individual areas to a greater extent. I do not think that is good for the world's trading system. In the case of TTIP between the United States and Europe, we first have to wait and see if the United States and Europe agree. There are many issues of conflict between the EU and the United States that need to be resolved. If they agree, I think Norway will believe that it is in our interest to find some way to connect in that area, of course by caring for Norwegian fundamental interests. In the case of TISA, I believe this is something we should follow very carefully. Increased trade in services is part of the functioning of the economy. Of course, we should not enter into an agreement that risks – as the representative says – specifying important aspects of the way our welfare society works: the way in which we govern the public sector, the way in which we have legal certainty, the way in which our companies have to be responsible for legislation. I'll take that as a matter of course. I cannot see that there is anything in this agreement until now that would oblige Norway to reverse, or not have the right to reverse, decisions about who is doing tasks, whether it is private or public. It's a key principle for us, and we have to ring that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e299	Norway has activities in the north with great geopolitical, environmental and energy policy significance. The BarentsObserver online newspaper is a very important independent medium in the northern areas, Russia and the Arctic. One can simply say that there is a lighthouse for freedom of expression in an increasingly narrow media everyday in Russia. Recently, the owners of BarentsObserver, who are the three workers' party-driven North-North-North County municipalities, have taken dramatic steps to restrict the editorial freedom of the Nettavis, which peaked last Monday when they kicked editor Thomas Nilsen in the day because he publicly criticized the owners' decision not to have editorial freedom. What will the Workers' Party and the representative Gahr Støre do to ensure that his party traps in North Norway terminate the process against BarentsObserver's editorial work and ensure the newspaper's independence from political influence – to play its role as the fourth state power?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e308	I know BarentsObserver as an important body for news, information and analysis of what is happening in the northern regions. It has also been important to follow what has happened from the many projects of the Barents Secretariat, and what these projects have done to open up new channels between countries that previously had no contact. When it comes to this particular battle, I'm going to be careful to speak about it, I've read about it through the media. Of course, it is the responsibility of the owners to ensure that the editor has the working conditions he needs to practise freedom of expression. I don't know if there are any other issues that underlie the decision. I note that the Foreign Minister on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will collect information on this, because the Barents Secretariat is funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I just want to reiterate that it is important that we practice the best qualities of freedom of expression in the north – especially against Russia, which is experiencing developments in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e318	When the four non-socialist parties won the election in 2013, and sat down in Nydalen to negotiate a cooperation agreement, the intention was clear: we were to ensure that unresolved tasks of transforming the Norwegian economy were solved. We were to ensure a new and more offensive climate direction in Norwegian policy. We were to increase efforts on key infrastructure efforts linking the country, and we were to carry out important reforms such as municipal reform and free treatment choices, for better use of public resources for the benefit of citizens across the country. When we take the temperature of Norwegian policy today, we see that the work around this is well under way. We're starting to see results. At the same time, there have been major changes since we met in Nydalen and in Sundvolden – changes that make it necessary to think again. No one saw that the oil price would be halved in a short time. This has had and will have a direct estimate of the Norwegian economy, activity and employment. The reduced activity of the oil industry and the increased unemployment resulting from this is greater than any other. In other words, the switchover of the Norwegian economy is no longer just a long-term ambition; it is something that also needs to be done in the short term, so that those who now lose their jobs can quickly return to work. The 2016 government budget, presented this week, will make a significant contribution to domestic demand for goods and services. The government has increased the rate of investment in transport since the 2013 elections, which will create better assumptions and framework conditions for business across the country. This is important for the long-term transition, but it also contributes to the creation of jobs today. The tax system shall be reformed and structured in such a way as to contribute to growth and value added. Here I hope that we meet across blocks in this room, so that we can ensure a broad majority for a good tax system. Another challenge that would turn out to be completely different in 2015 than anyone had reason to expect in 2013 is the huge refugee flow that comes from the civil wars in Syria and Libya. Europe experiences the greatest flow of migrants since World War II, and although there is a great deal of willingness to help those who come, the large number of migrants is not something that countries have the immediate ability to deal with separately. Norway helps and will help people in need, but international crises such as this also need international solutions. As a result of the great waves of migration into Europe, there is also a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. The increase has led to the need for the rapid establishment of ordinary asylum recipients, the reception of single minor asylum seekers and places in care centres for single minors under the age of 15. The current 2015 asylum forecast is 11 000. In the light of recent arrivals, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has estimated that the number of asylum seekers can reach 20,000. While we need to strengthen capacity and registration nationally, we also need to work internationally to get better control of the situation. In order to restore control at the Schengen external border, Norway has the intention to participate in the EU relocation programme. As regards the issue of Syrian quota refugees, a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has agreed to accept up to 8000 until 2017. This makes Norway one of the countries in Europe that receives most Syrian quota refugees. One of the prerequisites for doing this is, of course, that the municipalities are able to accommodate the people who are coming. Last year there were 7,784 refugees, i.e. 19 pst. more than in 2013. This is more than 20 years old, but not close enough to build up the remains of ready-to-residence residents in reception. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity has now sent out letters of request to all the municipalities of the country and asked them to settle refugees. So far, the municipalities have agreed to settle 11,000 refugees this year. This shows a joyful commitment in Norwegian municipalities. This figure has to be added if we are to achieve the targets set by the size ratio no more than four months ago. An important part of the solution in this picture is strong cooperation with volunteering. The government has taken the initiative in how volunteering and the public sector together can contribute to long-term work to settle and integrate refugees, a work to be followed up in municipalities. At a time marked by both short and long-term migration and where we are to deal with a major international crisis and its impact in Norway, it is essential that we have stable and predictable governance. It has Norway, through the cooperation that exists between the four non-socialist parties Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have been working for two years to help Norwegian business through the transition, through better and more predictable framework conditions that strengthen a Norwegian private ownership, and that will create secure jobs. We will continue this work together when we present a budget for work, activity and conversion this week. The approach to the challenges facing Norway in both the short and long term swings strongly. Last year, the Labour Party criticized the government for spending too much money. This year's criticism is that the government doesn't do enough, or that what's done is done in time. The reality is that the government has contributed to large investments in transport and other infrastructure, which will increase the demand for labour. The reality is that the government has followed developments and put in place concrete instruments in line with them, such as adjustment of the regulation of leave and increasing the number of places of action for those who lose their jobs. The most important thing, however, is what we do to increase activity and create more jobs. We do that through a predictable and sound economic policy, where we give Norwegian players the same opportunities in the Norwegian market as we give others. I look forward to good discussions on how to solve the challenges we are facing today in relation to the large oil price drop, and the significance of this for unemployment. I also look forward to good discussions about the large flow of refugees and asylum seekers that Europe now experiences, and how Norway should take its share of responsibility both at home and outside. In last year's throne debate, I pointed to the many tasks that the government had undertaken to create better well-being, greater value creation and a simpler everyday life for people in Norway. Well, a year later, I can see that the government is delivering on a case-by-case basis. In 2015, 10 billion were granted. kr more towards road and rail than in 2013. Many projects have been carried out, many have been given two to three years shorter planning time, and we have greatly increased public transport appropriations. The green shift is in progress. By the end of 2016, the Climate Technology Fund will be 62.75 billion. kr. That's $12.75. kr more than the 50 billion. kr Stortinget agreed in the climate agreement. In the healthcare sector, much has been done to strengthen the rights and opportunities of patients and users. Carcinogenicity, intoxication and mental health are once again priorities for healthcare businesses, user-led personal assistance is in place, and health appropriations are strongly strengthened. The government wants the students to learn even more. That's why we're doing the teacher's vow, which makes Norwegian teachers even better. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has increased the apprentice's grant four times in two years with a total of $1,500 per apprentice. The investment in research is record high, and important steps are taken in the higher education and university sectors. Simplification continues. The Planning and Building Act has been amended in such a way that homeowners are given greater opportunities to make changes on their own property. A competition complaint shall be established in Bergen and a rule board for simplification on Hönefoss. The list is long, and common to all measures is that they will equip Norway to meet the future. At the same time, the main focus of the government is now to meet the immediate challenges of increased unemployment in parts of the country. The State budget will show that the government takes this very seriously. All the parties in this room have one thing in common that I think is important to recognise in the further debate: we want the best for our fellow human beings. But with different ideological bases, we also have different views on how to design practical policies. That's why we're different parties. We do each other better when we can challenge each other's ideas and solutions. We make each other worse when we suspect each other's values and motives. I hope in this debate we will take time to make each other better. I think that'll serve us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e375	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e378	I take that challenge and now come up with a proposal to make policy better and to make the representative of Greece better. In the context of the labour market situation and what we are facing, one of the main messages we get when we visit companies, the fear of losing competence – skills lost because of the difficult times, people are being laid off, gone. Then the times can turn around, and you can either come back to the old activity, or you can put on the shoulders of the previous activity get started with the new activity. I have heard on many of the trips I have been on, that the question of being able to extend the period of leave has been raised. This was a theme after the government's new accession reduced the period of leave. It was reversed in the revised national budget this year. The proposal we are promoting today is based on the action we launched in 2009 — a temporary measure that increased the period from 30 to 52 weeks. Temporary – we tried it in 2009, it worked, and we took it away again in 2012. Now it is the proposal that has been put forward. Will the representative of Greece be involved in supporting the proposal and thus doing itself better?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e385	If I manage to do better, there is one thing, but to deal with proposals submitted from the Labour Party, in the Chamber half an hour afterwards, might become a little unprofessional. However, I would like to consider all the measures that can help both ensure a long-term transition to the Norwegian economy and at the same time meet the short-term needs for measures that can make people come to work or make jobs safer. I do not want to go into a discussion now of a single proposal that is being promoted as a representative proposal in the Chamber today, but I am aware that many people believe that this is an action that should be assessed. The state budget will be here in two days. Then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e392	This, I would say, was a promising answer. We also promoted the proposal in the election campaign, so you have had a little more than half an hour to think about it – but you like it. We get an exciting harvest. The representative of Greece and I were involved in negotiating a Syria agreement, and I would like to thank you for the work, where I believe the representative of Greece did a very important job of reaching a good agreement. In that agreement we write: ‘The Government will propose, in the context of the 2016 State Budget, further measures to stimulate integration and settlement work in municipalities, including considering proposals from the KS, and will consult the contracting parties in this work.’ In addition to the cooperation parties, it also applies to the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. Much has happened during the summer – the increase in people coming to Norway, many of them will be protected, and it will challenge capacity. Then I could imagine asking, without referring to the state budget coming in two days: what further action does the representative of Greece think is necessary to stimulate the settlement and integration action? 50 new receptions, 7000 more people than expected shall be created. What is needed for us to succeed in the decisive integration and settlement of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e405	Now Gahr Støre himself was in on some of the answer. We've strengthened the reception capacity. There was one thing in the news not very long ago, last week, about the old Smart Club in advice that is now being turned into a reception centre for those entering the country via Svinesund. A huge effort is being made in Norwegian municipalities and many asylum recipients are being restored. I think that when we get a little more clarity about how this development continues – because there has been a huge increase in the number of asylum applications – we need to think quite new. That is why I also invited a broad cooperation on this in Stortinget. I think Norwegian municipalities are willing to make an effort, and then we must also have tools to help them accept it. The municipalities have made a formidable effort. Over 11,000 have said that they are willing to accept this year. That's an increase of 7 000. I don't think it's on the will, so we have to contribute together with measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e410	The centralizing forces in our country are strong. People make their own choices as to where they want to live, but we have to provide good services and measures so that people can live and work in small places too. Cooperation parties are embarking on a major road and rail reform and are increasing the means of maintenance. That's good, but district policy is not just transportation. Active regional policies may include, inter alia: involve the creation of new state jobs in the regions and the strengthening of regional development funds in order to address challenges faced by district municipalities in creating new jobs. Increased funding for Innovation Norway is another example of contributing to local and regional value creation. What will the Right do to create more activity in the districts, so that people can live and work in smaller places too?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e419	Now, the representative of Gruvan is in a very important committee, namely the Transport Committee, and he himself points out that infrastructure investment is one of the most important factors in helping to get the goods up and running in the districts. In fact, this government has created a lot of government jobs outside Oslo. Even in the election campaign, I had the pleasure of joining the Hönefoss – it wasn't really the biggest job we were going to create – to present the new Board of Rules, which especially the Left, but also the Christian People's Party have been interested in. It's being left out of Oslo. We're doing a lot of these grips. I think that if one starts summing up, one sees that more state jobs are being established outside Oslo by this government than by the previous one, despite having so-called district parties in its midst. The right, together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, will work for a decentralised development. We will bet on innovation, we will bet on infrastructure, and we will bet on important district industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e426	It is striking that, while last year's census was about all the major structural reforms to be implemented by this government, not least the municipal reform, this year's centennial is chemically free of the word "municipal reform" or other structural reform. But there's probably a lot of people out there still wondering what's going to happen to the municipal reform in the future. Only in one of the 14 municipalities that had a referendum at the same time as the elections, there were yes-majorities, and many people say they don't want to coerce in community mergers. In the political quarter of last week, the municipal minister said that he believed that municipalities with less than 2 500 inhabitants were unable to provide the citizens with their good services. There's a big disagreement between the Center Party. The smallest municipalities are good in the broad well-being — in care for the elderly, school and kindergarten. But if the municipal minister is serious, it means that 131 municipalities with less than 2 500 inhabitants are going away. Is this the government's new plan for municipal reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e431	I had to look away at Minister Sanner, and from the perspective we have changed, I am absolutely sure that he has never said or thought that municipalities with less than 2 500 inhabitants cannot provide good services. What can be a challenge can be to provide advanced services to those who really need it the most, in areas like drugs, psychiatry, child protection, etc., but there is another debate. It is a broad majority in this Chamber who have wanted a local reform. At the time of the election, the parties that are opposed to municipal reform, i.e. the Senterpartiet and SV, got about a total of approx. 12 pst. So the congruency of the congruency signifies that it's 88 pst. who want one to go further with the community reform. We have a setup here in Stortinget. It'll keep going. There were some municipalities that had a referendum. On the Fosen it was yes, but of course it was not yes in so many municipalities. We'll continue the work as the Storting has put it up, and then the Center Party will tell you what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e436	The Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties have cooperated well in implementing climate action in the last two years. There has been a rapid change, although much more has to be done in the years to come, but in other areas Norway was convicted in the EFTA Court of Justice on Friday of infringements of the EU directive on air pollution. Too little has been done, and we know what the problem is: there is the use of diesel, there has been a dramatic increase in diesel emissions, and not least since the red-green tax conversion in 2008, and now urgent action needs to be taken. There are three things that help: there are bans on the use of diesel on the most polluted days; there are reversions of heavy transport, and there are introductions of low-carbon zones, as the Storting has already decided, and this must be put in place. Then my question becomes: Do the Right now agree and willing to take a much greater national responsibility for reducing local pollution by emergency measures in cooperation with the major cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e443	After all, the representative Elvesuen and the Left have had a strong influence on how we develop environmental policy, emissions policy, and I am absolutely sure that when we now sit down with a new state budget, this will be an important issue that both the Left and the Government parties are raising. Diesel policy – to put it that way – has a strange history, where the red-greens almost promoted diesel, and then go back on this. I don't think we're going to make too sudden changes in terms of what car park people have, but that one should stimulate in the right direction, there's little reason to disagree about. There we made a very strong contribution to last year's budget, where we negotiated tax reliefs, among other things. on hybrid and other low-emission vehicles. This development must continue, and then municipalities must also have the opportunity to assess local measures, as we have already discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e450	For a long time, there has been agreement in Norwegian policy that the working line should form the basis for economic policy. Instead, with the Right-Fremskritspart-government, we have been given the line of inheritance – it is worth inheriting, this is the government's policy. We see this clearly in the tax profile where it's become the crumb of those who work, but strong cuts to those who have previously been taxed by inheritance and wealth, and it increases the inequality. The representative of Greece himself referred to the headline in the press today, where a number of economists are talking about this. What we know is that societies with small differences have many advantages, including: that small differences also drive growth and productivity. Therefore, it is difficult to understand that the Right believes that it should pay more to inherit, is more concerned with it than that it should pay off to work. Why does the Right think that increasing inequality is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e457	I find that at least the representative Lightbakken has enjoyed the look-up in the Class struggle today, where there is a proposal to reintroduce the inheritance fee and increase the property tax. It is interesting to note that a potential cooperation party for the Workers' Party seems to be a good solution to reintroduce the inheritance fee. That inheritance fee was removed, and I have seen no popular claim to reintroduce it. On the contrary, I believe it has been right. The same applies to reducing the taxes on wealth that can help to strengthen Norwegian ownership. But now we get a tax reform that will be presented in two days. Then there will be plenty of opportunity for the representative Lysbakken and others to discuss what kind of distribution policy we should have related to the tax system. I believe that the structure presented by the government will prove to be important to stimulate value creation and to stimulate that the differences in Norway do not become too large, because – I agree – they should not be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e465	That 160th big thing is open, and we're already meeting the challenges we're now facing. The government has, through the nobility, pointed to a number of fields that you want to prioritize in the time to come, and invites the Storting to be involved in that work. The Progress Party will continue to work for a simpler everyday life for most people in the next period. In government, we have shown action, and through it we are able to create both a safer and a simpler everyday life for most people. We give people greater freedom in their own lives by facilitating that the individual can make his or her own free choice as much as possible. In my speech, I would like to address some of the challenges that both the Storing and the government will have to deal with and work on in the time to come – these are the major challenges we are now facing in Europe, where large numbers of people are fleeing, in the search for a safe port. Furthermore, we see that a long way from stabilising the relationship between Russia and the West after the unacceptable aggression shown by Russia to Ukraine. And further, we see that our own country is now facing major challenges related to a necessary transition in Norwegian business, especially in the oil and gas sector, as a result of a halving of the oil price in a relatively short period of time. This has led, as we have also heard before, to a negative trend in unemployment among some states. There is now a humanitarian crisis both outside and within Europe’s borders, particularly as a result of the civil war in Syria, but also in relation to the extreme, violent methods of winning territories both in Iraq and in Syria. More people find security in Europe. But at the same time, we see that too many people don't get to meet their basic needs where they are. The huge influx of asylum seekers now on the road through Europe is in very close proximity to acids. There are also others — from a number of other countries. These are Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan, Serbs – yes, we even belong to Russians who are using the occasion now. This creates major problems, as I said, in the fact that the registration of newcomers to both Italy, Greece and other Schengen countries has now completely collapsed. This means that you no longer have an overview of who is at all times where – and, not least, where they are going. This cannot continue. The Progress Party is pleased that the EU has now started work on restoring border control at the external border of Schengen and that the government is following this up from the Norwegian side. The UN has asked for approx. 60 B.C.E. kr for emergency aid in the Syrian neighbourhoods, but have only been promised about approx. one third of these funds and are missing between 30 and 40 billion. kr. Acids in the vicinity lack food, water, medicines and roof over their heads. Hundreds of thousands make a desperate journey across the Mediterranean because they lack the most elementary things in the vicinity. The progress party wants to help as much as possible. That's why the Progress Party proposed to grant 1 billion before the summer. Although the bulk of the population also contributed to the provision of additional funds, measures in the neighbourhood are more important than the majority of the population. This additional billion was voted down by the majority of the population, all the time before the summer debate was largely about the reception of 8 000 refugees to Norway and how this would happen. The influx of asylum to Norway that we are now seeing puts this matter in a slightly different perspective. Looking at the developments we are now facing, we can see that we are at least approaching the estimated figure for asylum seekers to Norway, of 20 000 people. This will create significant challenges in terms of providing shelter, health services, treatment and registration of individuals – based only on the situation you saw just a few weeks ago. In addition, shortages of food, drink, shelter and health services — the major shortcomings — in the neighbourhood alone help to drive even more refugees, including those who have found a safe port in refugee camps. This means that we need to ensure that there is a significant increase in resources available in the neighbourhood, to provide adequate food, to provide security in the camps, to provide medical assistance, to provide schooling, education, etc., so that we can help as much as possible. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has taken the initiative of a donor country conference to provide further assistance in the neighbourhoods, and supports the government in that work. Governments and government parties are pursuing policies both to secure existing jobs and to create new and forward-looking jobs. This is done through a very active industrial policy and through a tax and tax policy aimed at making it easier and more profitable for Norwegian owners to own Norwegian enterprises. It's work that drives Norway. Work creates identity and gives us financial security. Thanks to the oil revenues our nation has received, we have been able to create the welfare society that we now have. When the workplaces disappear, many people experience a crisis. Norway has low unemployment when we look at the national level, but unfortunately we see that in some industries unemployment is now increasing. It is no comfort to those who lose their jobs, that the country as such still has low unemployment. It is particularly in the field of oil and gas activities that the major challenges are now facing. This, of course, affects the offices, shipping companies, equipment suppliers, etc. These changes occur as a result of the fact that the oil price in a relatively short time has fallen from nearly $110 barrel to less than $50 barrel. In addition, we see that Brazil is taking even more protectionist measures, so that Norwegian offshore vessels have to leave the Brazilian sector and ports in Norway, in circulation. It is precisely in the coastal regions from East-Agder to More and Romesdal we now see that unemployment is increasing, while in ten counties it is still either stable or lower than it was a year ago. In the past, Norway has faced and overcome tough challenges. We will do that now too, but then political action is required. For this reason, the Right-Fremskritsparte government is launching a series of measures to secure Norwegian jobs. There is a historical commitment on the road and track, on research and innovation. A youth package has been promoted – more apprentices and faster follow-up. The yard package has been promoted, a maintenance bet of 2.5 billion. kr in the case of the yards. We have strengthened the shipbuilding industry, including: 320 million. SEK for increased maintenance in Maritime Defence and new coastal works vessel, SEK 170 million. kr for marine research and upgrade of research vessels. We have presented a youth package, as stated – it was presented on 17 August – with a number of actions. These are just some of the measures announced by the government that are already under way. This shows that the government is effective in meeting the challenges. In addition, a number of other measures are being taken to help shape the industrial policy of the future — including the green shift. Norwegian business has a lot to contribute to future climate and environmental policies. This has to be done in a number of fields. Many countries are already running, like Norway. Strengthening the Eco-Technology Fund is therefore a very good way to move forward, while at the same time pursuing a real policy of getting more goods from road to sea. In addition, we are involved in a historical investment and maintenance effort for railways and roads. In addition, the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has presented some proposals for changes in car tax policy. It shall be possible to choose the most emission-friendly vehicle without the need to penalise those who have opted for it differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e511	I think the representative had a good review of the serious refugee situation in Europe, and he concluded that considerable resources are needed in the neighbourhoods. I agree, and we are excited to see the budget on Wednesday. My question is: What do we need from funds in home areas – in Norway? When we negotiated the Syria agreement in ours, I think it was so that the Progress Party could agree to receive 6,000 quota refugees over three years. The result was 8 000, and the Progress Party could not accept it because they felt that it could not be accepted by Norwegian municipalities. For the last three weeks, 3,400 refugees have arrived in Norway. Most of them from Syria. So it's more than the difference that the Progress Party couldn't have had over three years. My question is, then, because this is something that happens without the Progress Party protesting against it, and I'm glad that, because these people need protection and are to be accepted: what is the answer? What should be the instruments of the municipalities to accept them? What now makes it possible to receive so many more refugees, which was not possible in June? And is the representative of Nesvik at his party leader, who encourages the municipalities to refuse to accept refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e520	The government has already promoted a proposition – which was probably the last Friday – related to additional measures in the current year, in particular related to the increased flow of asylum as we see Norway. Furthermore, it is quite obvious that you want to look at things in the budget, and then you have to look at what needs are there at a later stage. We need a reception point, we have an inflow to Norway now estimated at 20,000. With regard to the number of 8 000, which the representative Gahr Støre is also concerned with: the only decision that the Stortinget had made at that time was the receipt for the current year, and that was the figure to which the Progress Party relates. Then we will come back to the other measures, depending on what needs are there, and that will be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e527	Is the representative of Nesvik standing by his party leader, who encourages the municipalities not to accept more refugees, with the aim of stopping the Syria agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e532	With regard to the reception and settlement of the refugees, each municipality has to make its choices. That's where they're going to live. It is the municipalities that have to assess their own possibilities in terms of housing, health care, integration, follow-up, etc., and we have to leave that up to each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e537	Right now, we are experiencing the greatest and most demanding refugee situation after World War II, and it was therefore good that the representative Nesvik used much of his contribution to what he himself refers to as human flight in Europe or outside. We in the Christian People's Party have always been committed to combating poverty, preventing conflicts and creating development for the world's poor. As a result, debt-laundering, increased trade and long-term development aid have been important. Now we see very clearly the consequences when a country collapses, like Syria, and there are several vulnerable countries. That is why we must both resolve the acute humanitarian crisis and facilitate long-term assistance so as to prevent future conflicts. Then schooling is important, then it is important to focus on health care, then it is important to create jobs among the world's poor. Does the representative of Nesvik see the importance of long-term assistance to prevent short-term conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e546	It is important that the aid policy we put forward is an aid policy that works. That is, we have to review the instrument we have used and how we spend the money in the future. Norway spends well over 30 billion dollars. kr on assistance. There are different types of measures. Something goes to humanitarian aid, something goes to longer-term action. The government has strengthened, and has said that it will continue to strengthen, including: the activity of education in some developing countries. It's on the education of women. We are also in favour of long-term assistance, but it is important that we do not go into the trap of over-binding, i.e. so much of our aid work that we cannot also cope with the financial crises that we see around, including the humanitarian crisis that is now taking place in Syria. Part of the argument that has been related to the conversion and redistribution of funds was that too much was tied up in the long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e553	Unemployment is rising, especially in the West. Developments in the oil and gas industry, the supplier industry and the maritime industry are dramatic. It's dramatic for the country, it's dramatic for the West, it's dramatic for the companies affected, and it's not least dramatic for the employees who lose their jobs. The government has long had difficulties in seeing the seriousness of the situation. I also feel that the representative of Nesvik today underestimates the difficulties and talks about the low availability. Thus, one has not acted to a large extent and has taken the necessary measures. ‘Activity’ is a word that the government often uses about itself – it may remind you more of speech power. I want to challenge the representative to come up with the three most important measures that the government has actually taken to help unemployed engineers get back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e562	The undersigned has not sub-communicated the problem that we are facing. We face many different challenges, including: other along the coast of East Agder in the south and upwards towards Møre and Romesdal. Then I pointed out in my post – as the representative Gahr Støre said – that in other parts of the country there is actually an unchanged or declining unemployment. Going out and saying what the three most important measures are, I think is very difficult, because we're making a difference. Bets include: In the road and rail sectors, the transport sector, enables us to draw engineering skills from there into another sector. In addition, we see that other states, at the Kongsberg Group, etc., will also benefit from the engineering competence of the oil and gas sector. What is important is that we get good packages in place, that we get a number of measures that can get a wide range of people to work, and that we take inwards that we must also – as I said – ensure that we work widely and specifically with the measures we are doing, in order to maximise their benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e571	The representative, Nesvik, used part of his intervention to describe the situation in the oil and gas and maritime sectors, and much of what the representative points to in the face of challenges, shares the Left’s view. We also share views on some of the measures pointed out by Nesvik. Yes, we have even proposed some of these measures. What the representative was less interested in, which was a bit pointed out by Pollestad in the previous line, and which I could expect to have received a more specific response from Nesvik, is that we are now recording that a number of shipping companies within the offshore are laying ships in the bows – that is, laying ships in storage. What does the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party think of that situation, and how does the Progress Party respond to this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e578	For example, in the case of many of the vessels in the offshore sector, there were: Farstad Shipping, one of the world's largest shipping companies, last weekend out and showed that one of the reasons they're now bending several of their ships is a lack of mission, and that one has actually been expelled from Brazil's base, as a result of the policy being pursued over there. Norway will never be able to escape all those ships on the Norwegian base, in the North Sea basin or further northwards. However, the government has already taken a number of measures that will allow us to increase our activity: Johan Sverdrup development is on the rails and will lead to increased activity both on the west side of the North Sea Basin and in the North Sea Basin. Furthermore, the government has also made sure that we get new search areas, which make it more attractive to search in areas where you actually have the opportunity to find something. In addition, a number of things are done in marine research and maintenance efforts on the yards. There's some point by point here. The reason I was not more concerned with this in the main post was that I did not have any more time – which I do not now have in the reply either.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e590	In Tromsø we see that a Right Party regime that sits on notice has offered the municipal cleaning. And across the country, there is great concern because hardworking women are at risk of huge losses in future pension payments because the government has spent all the cleaning of defence buildings on bids. Where the Progress Party and the Right governs, we see increased privatizations, which means more power to the market and less power to all the people who are losing on the brutalization of working life, and who are losing on the pressure of retirement and employment. That's why it's nice to see that our country has become redder since the last time we were gathered here. SV fights privatisation, and we also believe that employees should retain their pension rights on a competitive basis. Does the Progress Party support SV's proposal, or does the party maintain a policy for the pensioner in the event of privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e599	The progress party was, among other things, the only lot in this room which was actually outside the pension agreement, including: SV helped to drive – in the opposite direction – a pension of older people, by under-regulation of the basic amount of population unemployment by 0.75 percentage points each year in relation to wage developments in the pensioners’ society. You should be able to see this in many ways. I do not share the representative's enthusiasm for the fact that it has become very red in Tromsø, and I do not think that the citizens will be happy about it for so long. It is quite wrong, as the representative Bergstø says, that competitive outsourcing – it is not about privatisation, it is about postponing competition to ensure that you pay the right sum for the right service – is about brutalising working life. But that SV has a view that private is a sin, I just have to take note. For the Progress Party, every worker is equally valuable – whether working in the public sector or in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e611	In a very good speech, the prime minister reminded us of the situation we and Europe were in 70 years ago. At that time, 60 million Europeans fled to other countries. Now it is Europe that is the safe haven for people as refugees for their lives. In the Common Era, we could read: "Many have stood up for us Northmen through history when we needed a helping hand. Now we have to deal with people in distress." It's a recognition we should all be some about, but it's also a recognition that requires. It obliges us, not just to take our share of responsibility, but to take our fair share of responsibility. Every other second, a human being is driven away. The world's refugee situation is one of the greatest challenges we have faced. The pictures and stories affect us and also remind us of our responsibility to help our fellow human beings. Norway's efforts in the Mediterranean have helped save lives, and here in Norway we see a great deal of commitment among people and organizations that want to contribute to the national response to refugees. Despite this fantastic effort, we see that the reception apparatus has not been calculated for such a large amount of asylum in the short term. The increasing number of asylum seekers has led to major challenges for the Police Foreign Unit. Children have to stay overnight on concrete floors at the Tøjen locality, waiting to be registered. The apparatus must be strengthened so as to facilitate the reception of several refugees and to give the refugees a worthy welcome. There are two things I want to remember. One is the proposal made by the Christian People's Party during this debate. It does something for minor asylum seekers, not least those aged 15-18 years, who need a better supply than we provide. The second is that there are many parties – and I also hope that the Christian People's Party has our strong share in it – that talk about child poverty in our own country. We know that with, among other things, the asylum and immigration policies we have had in Norway for the last ten years, and with the situation we now see, we know that work is becoming even more important in the future. The refugee situation can only be resolved by long-term peacekeeping. We must put pressure on Russia, the United States, Turkey, Iran and other major powers that can affect the parties to the conflict. At the same time, we need to find parallel solutions that will improve the situation of refugees. We must then have a joint effort in Europe to respond to refugees who cannot be helped in the vicinity, to increase the capacity of the search and rescue work in the Mediterranean and to quickly to move quickly and to start the integration of refugees coming to Norway. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has said this: this is the ‘time of truth’ for Europe. Now is the time to show which values Europe is built on. That's also true of Norway. Now we're going to show what values we've built our country on. Today we experience an increasing unemployment in our country. It is particularly demanding for the communities, families and individuals that this framework provides. Many experience insecurity for the future of their own and others. The job that was a self-evident thing has suddenly disappeared. Now we have to think about both the long term and the short term. We need to take action for those who are out of work today, but also for those who are at risk of losing their job in the future. The short-term measures of my Christian People's Party include: will be a well-adapted use of oil money, a good local economy and additional maintenance of public buildings and infrastructure. We need to look at whether different social legislation is adapted to the current situation, such as the situation in the workplace. the law of the permit. We need fast-acting measures to help the most vulnerable, namely the young. This means, among other things: several action areas to help more people get into work, a sharp increase in the apprenticeship rate and several places for in-company training. We also need to initiate measures that will affect a slightly longer term. Here it is, among other things. important with a green tax shift leading to climate-friendly choices. We also believe that a reduction in corporate tax is necessary to promote increased investment and more jobs in the long term. We need a stronger focus on knowledge – from early school efforts with more children's school teachers to research renewable energy and the commercialisation of research through FORNY2020. We must continue the development of transport that the Christian People's Party and the three other cooperation parties have begun, especially green transport measures and measures that provide development and growth throughout the country. We must never accept that the solution can be attached to a high level. It has very rarely done so before in our country. Some of the good things about Norwegian society are just that we've managed to avoid the high level of unemployment. We also have to do that this time. No one should worry about getting old in Norway. That's why we need a good and adaptable care for the elderly, and we need to become better at using the resource that older people make in our society. A worthy old age when hell fails is about far more than sick homes. A place may be absolutely necessary, but the content of care is decisive for the quality of life and the security of the individual. Many in this room know well the care of the elderly around the country. We see what fantastic efforts are being made by adding around the country. At the same time, there is no doubt that there are still wide variations in elderly care from municipality to municipality. Adding to the community health and care services will be a major challenge in many places. It goes beyond the basic supply and patient safety. We must be able to improve the ability of municipalities to meet the needs of their older people. Multiple additions give time to the individual. We need an offensive bet on staffing and recruitment in the future. Today, too many elephants go out of the base without being able to read and write properly, dropping out of the school before they have completed the course, or being afraid to go to school because of bullying. The reason is neither bad teachers nor too few schoolteachers, but too many teachers have too little time for each student. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that learning skills need to be increased for the youngest students, so that every single child is seen, that knowledge gaps are captured, and that students get challenges to adapt to their level. We started this effort in the year's budget. Now we're going to keep going for the years to come. It's a good and proper investment, because one of the most important things we can do in society is just to facilitate our children's safe and healthy growth. A good childhood lasts a lifetime. The sphere is of great importance for children’s growth and provides an important basis for future growth. It's one example of an important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party that we're securing more teachers at 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th stages. Other important breakthroughs for the Christian People's Party have been that we have secured 1 pst. of GNI for assistance in the two budgets which have been adopted. Everything indicates that what's coming on Wednesday, will do as well. We're doing a green shift at a much better rate than we've seen before. We're good at busing more refugees. We have put in place a stepping-up plan against violence against children. We see a $2.4 billion drug treatment plan. kr. Families have been given an option – a double cash support and child care investment. But the Christian People's Party has greater ambitions ahead. We want to give a boost to vulnerable groups in our society. It's one of the most important visions of the Christian People's Party with our work here on the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e668	A good childhood lasts its life, and we're going to fight for the marginalized groups in our society,' said the representative Hareide. I am very pleased, and I am glad that the representative spent time in his speech on something that the census did not mention at all, namely the fight against child poverty – an area in which the Christian People's Party has always fought successfully for a strengthening and for more action. Like the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party is on the line that working for all is the most important measure to prevent increasing poverty. But we have also always agreed that targeted measures are needed for families living in poverty here and now. Increasing unemployment has a backside, and growing child poverty can be one of them. What does the representative think is important to give priority to targeted action against child poverty in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e675	Thanks for the nice words. There is no doubt that the asylum strike we now see – the fact that we have had so many immigrants and asylum seekers who have come to us – has given a great deal of positive to our society. But there has been one negative development: we have seen that child poverty has increased in our country. It is therefore important that we say, as the representative of Trettebergstien quite rightly does, that work is the most important thing. However, it is also important that we have some targeted measures that help us to meet, among other things. the individual child – that no child feels that they cannot go on a birthday because they fall outside. There is now a plan that the government has launched, but that plan must be followed up in Stortinget. Fortunately, in that plan there are over 100 measures, but it is now our job to prioritise this with funds in the budget that is now coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e684	The budget will come as we know it on Wednesday. Over the last two years, the government has shown that they clearly prioritize tax cuts for those who have the most in the past, with the corresponding proposal that families where the poor children live are to pay for the valid through proposals for transitional social assistance cuts and the child allowance for the disabled. I would like to commend and thank the Christian People's Party for having managed, together with the rest of the opposition, to prevent these cuts in the budget proposals, even at the latest in May of this year, when the government tried again through legislative proposals with unsocial changes in the transitional assistance. Wednesday comes the budget. Then we'll see if the government has seen the drawing, understand the hint. What does the real representative Hareide think that the government does not seem to understand or accept that the bulk of the population and the supporting parties do not accept that it is the poor children who have to pay for the tax cut party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e691	Now we have time to take the budget debate when he comes, but around tax cuts, I would say that precisely prioritizing tax cuts to businesses, prioritizing the reduction of corporate tax, I think it is important to create jobs. As the representative Drettebergstien said, work is just the most important action to combat poverty. I can say that for the Christian People's Party, it is to give priority to corporate taxes rather than taxes on wealth, both because we believe it gives more jobs, and because the government's own commissions and reports also say the same thing. But we'll have to take the budget debate when he comes, and he'll be there on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e701	In his speech, the representative Hareide was very clear on the importance of good cooperation with the government parties and the Left. I fully agree with that is important. In the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, agreements were concluded that gave some of their main concerns to the various parties. The four parties met to compromise that everyone could stand behind. The Christian People's Party was able to see through some of its most important issues, including: that the RLE subject would be replaced by the KRLE subject. A key issue for the Progress Party, for which we were given the opportunity, was to reduce the discrimination between married and cohabiting couples in the context of basic pensions. My question to the representative Hareide is whether the Christian People's Party is committed to the agreed agreement to reduce the curtailment of the basic pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e707	I can confirm that. The Christian People's Party is committed to the agreement that we have concluded. Then we've reached an agreement where there are a lot of issues, and we obviously have to look at how we dimension, and how we prioritise those actions towards each other. But we have entered into an agreement, and of course we stand by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e712	Thanks to the representative Hareide for a nice post. My reply goes on a difficult question before a criminal court. The Christian People's Party has made sure to give the government a number of figures in order to send people convicted in Norway to a settlement in the Netherlands, despite the fact that from a number of quarters there were strong objections both to the principle and to the practical aspects of the case. It's all about everything from Constitution and human rights to proximity and the ability to rehabilitate. A kernel orbit here is forced. Bergen's Official Journal has recently announced that 174 prisoners will be transferred to the Netherlands, of whom 72 will be compulsorily forced. We can read in the media that at least two inmates tried to take their lives because they knew they were going to be transferred to the Netherlands. Is the representative of Hareide comfortable in securing a plurality in the Stortinget for this scheme, or will the Christian People's Party support the demand from us in the Central Party that the government stop all forced transfers of Norwegian citizens to the settlement in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e719	We have had a clear dialogue with the Ministry of Justice on this matter. This is a temporary measure. There is no good and lasting solution to using prisons outside Norway. So we have said that we can share in this, but the premise is that we build prisons. It's going on, and then this won't be a permanent solution. This is a temporary measure that we can accept in a temporary phase. So it's not easy not to be allowed to punish saying, to stand in line to get it done. There's nothing good either, because getting on in life is in itself important. Yes, the distance is large, but the distance from Oslo to Finnmark is also quite large, and we have learned that people who have close family relations with children should not be part of the transport to the Netherlands. So under those instructions, and that there were no good solutions, we think in the situation we're in, this is the best, but it's a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e726	I thank Hareide for a good speech. I heard Hareide mention the escalating plan for the drug field, and I am very happy that we're getting such an escalating plan in place. The representative Klinge was inside the criminal service, and that's where I'm going to go on. It is problematic when prisoners appeal to the judge not to be sent to the Netherlands. It gives us a challenge in Norway. It takes a lot of time, and they get six extra months. But the question really arises as to whether it is not a bit easy to buy free with the accommodations in the Netherlands, and that, in connection with the escalation plan, we should bet more on prevention, which I know is important for the Christian People's Party. Large-scale investment in large prisons has been chosen, while many small prisons in Norway are unable to respond to their expansion. They have a successful rehabilitation course that brings many back to family and working life. The question really is whether you have been betting on the wrong horse in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e733	We should always listen to Left – Odd Einar Dørum was one who really lifted the criminal code as Minister of Justice – and I do. The solution we have come up with to rent prisons in the Netherlands is a temporary solution, but in the situation we are today, I still think it's wise. That's how we build prisons. I don't know exactly what prison we live in. It could be that size can vary, and that we can have different experiences with it. But it is based on a professionally recommended scheme that the government and the Christian People's Party have agreed to it. But I think everyone is a few that we are forced to invest in prison, among other things. in my own home region, where I see that Haugesund County Prison is too old. So I think building new prisons will benefit society, and it's true that it's going to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e740	SV and the Christian People's Party have for a long time been certain that the asylum child has been treated in an unworthy and also harmful way in Norwegian practice. We've worked together and we've always done something about the situation. One of the hardest battalions in this room was in the spring, with the mistrust proposal against Anders Anundsen and the whole race around it, which resulted, among other things. in an agreement that the forced-returned families of children would have to re-try their cases under the new legislation. So shows the review of the evening post that so far UNE has dealt with 15 things. Eleven families have been denied, and four get back. Two out of four families are not permanently suspended and have to stay in the reception of asylum for an indefinite period. Among other things, Arild Humlen said: that the handling of cases was a support to the Minister of Justice's unfortunate handling of the asylum child situation. What does the Christian People's Party Leader feel? Does the Christian People's Party leader feel that the Minister of Justice has followed the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e747	I would like to give it back to SV. SV has been an ally in these matters, and when SV put in government, we know that there was an engagement that was followed up in a good way. It was a real commitment. We know that the agreement we made in ours, which was historic, to try things out again, is something completely new. We also knew that there would be uncertainty about this, because it had never happened before. We also chose to bring quite a few, and we knew that if we had taken fewer, it was likely that the part that got bigger. We chose to bring many, and so probably the part that gets will be slightly smaller. What matters to the Christian People's Party is that a proper assessment is made, and that one is being heard. We've taken that up with the government. Some of the feedback and hearing signals that there are too few who have actually been heard have been the most important thing for the Christian People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e757	The census warned that the issue of increased unemployment and the need for change is becoming an important issue in policy work next year. Work is essential for the growth and development of our society. It is easy to agree with the government's statement that high employment and low unemployment are the very foundations of the Norwegian model. In the fight against increased unemployment, one must also see the opportunities that lie throughout this country. Some of the most powerful industries are located along our coast. Foundership and technology development exist throughout the country. If a really means something with a bioeconomy strategy, which the government has in mind, then one must also be willing to focus on the rural industries closely linked to the bioeconomy, whether in forestry, wood industry, agriculture, aquaculture or fisheries. Contributing to an active and targeted industrial policy that exploits the advantages of a highly skilled workforce and rich natural resources is the key to migration in Norway in the future. The centre party will warn against an unbalanced transition in which centralization shoots speed. It can contribute to increased unemployment and to a failure to seize the opportunities that lie throughout this country. The census also highlighted one of the main challenges facing Europe — the flow of refugees from Syria and other countries in war and conflict. Norway is strongly affected by what is happening, like the rest of Europe. The centre party was concerned this summer with the possibility of a donor country conference for the refugees in the neighbourhood of Syria. Relations with neighbouring countries are on the verge, and international society needs to be better off than one has done. We are pleased that such a conference will be held in January. The centre party believes that Norway has to put money on the table. A contribution to aid in the neighbourhood, as requested by humanitarian organisations, is absolutely necessary in the work now being coordinated internationally. In addition, there will be far more asylum seekers and refugees in Norway than in the past. They must have a proper and proper treatment of Norwegian society. Increased influxes of refugees and asylum seekers will make greater demands for reception and residence in Norway. The Central Party believes that the reception of refugees and asylum seekers by municipalities must be fully financed by the State. This is a social task and should not be the subject of a draft fight in municipal budgets. In addition to proposing that one in the budget adopt a milliard of integration. Too many people sit too long waiting for reception around the country. Such a billion should be used for refugees coming here so that they can quickly leave reception, into the community, into language training, education and work. The mobilisation we have seen in the voluntary sector over the past few weeks is also positive and must be encouraged further. Both voluntary groups and organisations will play an important role in long-term integration work. The centre party will come back to its alternative budget with a concrete explanation of how we view the use of funds. Apparently almost without debate, bilateral investment agreements, an international trade agreement on services and a free trade agreement between the United States and the EU, known as the TTIP, have now been negotiated for a long time. Together, these agreements will be able to change both public administration, national political space and our legal system. It is almost incredible that there has been no more debate on these matters, but it must be in the future. The question of Norway being bound by such agreements deserves much more attention than has been given to it. The bilateral investment agreements are important because they have in themselves a provision which is, in fact, also an gateway to the TTIP, namely the provision that multinational groups can sue countries without going through the national legal system. Such provisions will transfer power from elected bodies to international lawyers and courts. It could also have significant consequences for the action space for both state and local authorities in a country. National and local authorities may be sued by international companies for exercising legitimate policies. In this way, the government of the people could be effectively limited. Norway’s becoming part of such agreements is a topic worthy of critical debate. The centre party has raised the issue of transparency as to whether the agreements we now see are being negotiated, so that everyone can assess the impact of these agreements. We believe that Norway should not conclude any agreements that weaken the rule of law and the political space for action in Norway. Nor will the Centre support any agreements that weaken food production, food security and the environment, and we will not participate in agreements that limit the right to have high health, environmental and labour standards in Norway. The speech of the fourth year was clear and clear in one area: the public sector was to be renewed through major structural reforms within the police, hospitals and municipalities. This year's census is chemically free of any big word about the renewal of the public sector. One would think that the government has put all this work on ice. But I don't think anyone should be tempted to think that's the case. However, the choice of this harvest has shown that the population does not necessarily want changes to the public sector in the way the government thinks. Only in one of the fourteen municipalities that have a referendum on municipal mergers, the inhabitants said yes. The centre party has long pointed out that renewal, which is only about larger units and centralisation, means a public sector where the distance between citizens and decision-makers is increasing – between patients and hospitals, between police and population. The distance between society and the individual is increasing, and each of us is getting less visibility and less opportunity to influence. Government reforms in this area are, in reality, not about renewal, but about hearing disorder. With these structural reforms, centralisation is being camouflaged as a transformation. The centre party wishes to renew the public sector in another way. For years to come, it is important to provide less state bureaucracy, fewer measurement and reporting requirements, less detail management, less designation and less over-management in the form of over-reliance directorates. Police reform has now been adopted in the United Kingdom, and the uncertainty about what it will mean locally is increasing. The majority of the population have in reality given up control of the reform and let the Directorate of Police take care of it. The depoliticisation of the public sector contained in such a decision is quite new. It allows bureaucrats and administrations to have a power of definition and implementation far beyond what they have previously had in important areas of society. During the winter, a number of government posts will be centralised through the bundling of police districts, and already we see resources that could have been used for operational service being redirected to project positions to implement the reform. In the next few years, a location between 100 and 130 offices is to be closed. It'll be dramatic. Many parts of Norway may be left with a car and telephone police force. Each municipality gets a cell phone number for a police contact to replace the current county office. While a lot of places in the country have to wait one or two hours before the police look at a damage site, the fire department is the fastest out in the field – the municipal fire department. Now the fire service shall also be made so-called robust. The introduction of a new regional leadership level to provide us with a better fire service is highly doubtful. We must stop believing that documentation and supervision are rewarding. Preparedness is becoming academic and bureaucratic. We need to know that this is about people, about resources, not about forms, matrices and reports. The Center Party believes that the Fire Service must practise more and get better training. But we want to keep a decentralised fire service that has responsibility and authority to make rapid and necessary decisions. It must not be possible for a local person to be passive because he cannot do anything without consulting a staff or a level of leadership many miles away. Local leadership itself is an important part of preparedness. The day after the elections, a strategically selected date, also came the message that the courts should be centralised. One might think that there is a need for professional replenishment for judges in smaller district courts, but in 2015 it is fully possible to do so without merging courts. There is no evidence that major rights of object solve the problems more effectively than small ones. Minor courts no longer have legal proceedings. Their decisions will be reviewed no more than in other courts. The centre party will use its voice in the Storting to continue to argue for a renewal of the public sector where content is more important than size, where changes are based on the best of what we carry – proximity, participation and trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e798	In a Europe that faces major challenges, it will be very easy to look at the Centre Party for Answers – nothing is less important for the Centre Party than Europe. At the Central Party national meeting in 2013, the Swedish sister party of the Center Party was shocked by the positions of Norwegian friends towards Europe and on labour immigration. The EEA Agreement is important for Norway, but it is also larger than that. I believe that the vast majority of people in this Chamber who have been visiting around our continent have seen how EEA funds contribute to rehabilitation, poverty reduction and support for Europe's children growing up in poverty. This is where the Center Party will cut. If you have to take flights to see poverty, it doesn't make so much sense. Some families choose to look for happiness in other countries. Thanks to the EEA Agreement, it is possible. You can travel, for example. to Norway, and get a higher salary here than you would at home. This reacts to the Centre Party, and this will limit the Centre Party. Can the representative Arnstad explain why we want to limit Europe's families to seeking happiness in richer countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e808	Norway is an open country. It's been for centuries. It's going to continue to be. That's what the Center Party thinks is good. We're going to have international contacts, both to Europe and to other parts of the world. We're going to be a country that's busy with the global -- we're going to continue to be. However, it must also be allowed to problematise some of the issues related to both the EEA and the EU. To take labour immigration first: the question of migrant workers is not the problem. But the way in which they are exploited, in terms of social dumping and labour renting, is a major problem. This has escalated with the labour immigration we have seen, among other things. from Eastern Europe in the years behind us. Then I have to say that EEA funds for the poor are good, but all EEA funds do not go to the poor – the representative knows that very well. They go to church bells in Poland, to refurbish the square in front of a city hall in Seville or to an underground waste facility – everything does not go to the poor, and we might have a critical assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e817	2.5 B.C.E. NOK – if I do not remember correctly – the Senterpartiet wanted to cut in EEA funds, such as, among other things. contribute to the fight against poverty in Europe. But the EEA Agreement is also important for Norwegian enterprises, and it can be important in the transformation we are about to enter into. It gives Norwegian companies access to 31 countries, 500 million people. Norwegian businesses want common conditions like the rest of Europe. The EEA Agreement is essential for Norwegian jobs, but it is also crucial for employment in Norway. Some companies say that the alternative to labour from the EEA is to fly out of the country. When the Senterpartiet was in government, legislation from the EEA was implemented slowly, reluctantly. This created uncertainty, unforeseeability. We must remember that the goal of the Central Party is not to cooperate with Europe. But then you have to ask yourself, how will Norwegian companies manage without access to an internal market?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e824	Norway has continued to cooperate with Europe. The centre party believes it is excellent that Norway cooperates with Europe and the world around it – including the world outside Europe, seagoingly. Norway has always done that, and we're always going to do that. In fact, Norwegian industry also exported goods before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, which was actually exports of Norwegian products. I think that in different kinds of trade events you can have a good export of Norwegian goods. The problem with the EEA Agreement is that it has become a sacred cow that no one is willing to problem, even the negative aspects of it, such as: can be related to the environment, health and rules – completely unnecessary bureaucratic rules imposed on Norway. And unfortunately, that side of the EEA Agreement is not one of the EEA's affiliates that wants to problematize.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e829	Back to the home arena and districts: For the Progress Party, lower car charges are an important tool to ensure that people can buy the most newer, more modern, safer and not least environmentally friendly cars. This must also apply in the districts and not only in the cities and agglomerations. The 2015 budget therefore proposed and adopted a significant reduction in car-related charges, including: the one-off charge on chargeable hybrids was reduced by up to NOK 50000 and the re-registration fee was reduced by an average of 35 pst. The centre party, on the other hand, went in completely opposite direction, and what was suggested in their budget line was a significant increase in the one-off and re-registration fees. Then my question to the representative Arnstad is: does she not see that the central party's arrangement for car charges would hit people in the districts particularly hard, i.e. those who cannot cope with everyday life only with a pure battery car?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e836	There's two slightly different things. One is the conversion we've had a broad majority in the back of the Storting, which concerns more environmentally friendly cars. I think it's made a lot of sense – and a broad majority – behind the changes that have happened. Then it is that we have had our own arrangement that does not necessarily match the arrangement of the Progress Party in terms of car charges. The progress party always has a lot of money to bring to tax relief and reduction in car charges, but the other side of that crown is seaworthy that something goes wrong. It affects the public's ability to contribute, including: to actions relating to activity and development in the districts. In the choice between lower car charges and being able to make an offensive contribution to rural policy through, inter alia, To restore the regional policy measures that the Progress Party has been involved in over the last two years, I would have chosen the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e841	The representative Arnstad said about reforms that it's about people. Yes, it's about people, and it definitely does for the Left, too, because we want to have a bigger and wider professional environment and provide good services to the municipalities. Not least, then, the fight is to get young people to actually be, because there is a relatively large relocation in the districts. The reasoning, which Arnstad's party trap and rapporteur in her own municipality, Ivar Vigdenes, clearly states that he agrees, is that there is a need for overall reform. Doesn't Arnstad recognize that there's a demanding track that the Center Party is now adding up, when someone chooses to be against everything? Because I have not come to realize that there is one reform that the Centre Party agrees with. I see, of course, that there are challenges, that one can say that there can be more and better framework conditions. We agree with that. But can the representative Arnstad mention one reform that the Central Party agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e846	First, I have to be allowed to say that there are a little different opinions in all parties. The representative mentioned the Vigdenes in our party. I can point to the Left in Lexvik, which, of course, opposed the municipal merger of Rissa and Lexvik before the election and tried to lean on the voters. The centre party is opposed to reforms that have been camouflaged to centralisation, and municipal reform and police reform, as it now appears, are simply camouflaged to the point of centralisation. It is going to lead to a solid centralisation of a number of services. We're not fundamentally opposed to community reunification, but we have three clear conditions attached to it, and that's volunteering, referendum, and that people stick to facts, that's the fact that even small municipalities provide good services. They are actually some of the best to provide the good, broad, well-being services that you have in your municipalities: care for the elderly, kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e851	I would like to thank the representative, Arnstad, for a very good and constructive statement. Today, more than 5,000 people with approved residence in reception and waiting – people who are not allowed to use their resources for the benefit of Norwegian communities, 5,000 non-free people who do not come forward but who have put their lives on hold. Today, SV has proposed a new system for the construction of refugees, based on a red-green 2011 proposal and a Danish model. You are assigned a regular task to Norwegian municipalities. Does the representative Arnstad see that faster construction and not least work integration can be a win-win situation in many relocation municipalities? And does she have any hope that the Center Party, which is the chairman party in front of someone, can guarantee people the right to bow?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e858	The centre party is very concerned about how to integrate refugees and asylum seekers in Norway in a better and faster way. People stay in asylum receptions for too long and in pairs of thumbs, when we could actually use them in our working life, and when we could also have given them the opportunity to take both further and further training and new education. People have to leave the asylum recipients; they have to get into the communities and enter meaningful tasks. But we can have a little different solutions on how this can happen, and unlike the representative, the Central Party does not believe in SV's proposal of coercion to the municipalities. Our alternative is to adopt the integration billion that we have set up today, and to set up some schemes that can quickly get people into work and education. I don't think Norwegian municipalities are really reluctant, but they're insecure both in economic terms, especially when there are small municipalities, and whether they get enough drag from society to get refugees and asylum seekers quickly into and integrated into their community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e863	Thank you, Mr Arnstad, for a very good speech. I want to address agricultural policy, where the Greens/Center Party has a lot in common and has cooperated on several issues in the Stortinget. One of the things we agree on is that in order to understand and develop Norwegian agriculture, it cannot be on the basis of an expectation that we will compete with foreign players on price, efficiency and size. Agriculture in Norway depends on other qualities being cultivated, not least the confidence and respect of the population for Norwegian food, and on defending the environmental impact of agriculture and good and ethical animal husbandry. So my question is, will the centre party support demands that have been raised to the environmental level and to animal ethics in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e872	It's a little difficult to answer without seeing what concrete proposals it actually applies to. The centre party is concerned with both animal ethics and the environmental aspects of Norwegian agriculture, and we also believe that Norwegian agriculture, compared to agriculture in most of the countries around us, has had a great deal of focus on it. There has been a major focus on both animal welfare and the environment. Then the representative Hansson has said quite rightly that there are important aspects relating to Norwegian agricultural policy on which we have to stand together together. This concerns customs protection, on which the representative Hansson so far was involved, and also soil protection, that the food soil is not being built up and used for purposes other than producing food. However, we are open to discuss issues relating to both animal welfare and environmental requirements when we see the concrete proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e880	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e883	As was pointed out in the census, we are internationally in a challenging time. We see that the energy sources we've been using are going to change, and it's going to be used by others. We see that the prices of the old energy sources are suddenly changing dramatically, and we are going to tackle the major climate challenges. At the same time, we see that we have a more and more unpredictable neighbour in Russia, and we see a terror that daily hits many citizens in many countries. We see a Middle East that is increasingly unbalanced, and Syria is becoming more and more demanding in the region, but also for us. Before it – from this pulpit – Norway is a small country in the world. NUPI Director Sverdrup framed up some numbers that put this a little bit in perspective, that things might have changed. It's clear that in population numbers Norway is state number 118 in the world, in area we're number 68, in military terms we're number 27, in economy in the world, we're number 24, in aid we're number 9 in the world, in UN contribution, we're number 7 in the world, in oil exports we're number 5 in the world, in gas exports we're number 2 in the world, and as single shareholder is this hall number 1. This means that Norway is no longer a small country in the world – it is a country that has a lot of influence when we are willing to use it. It is therefore decided to withdraw the oil fund from coal that is so important and so crucial for development worldwide. But it's also about not talking about Norway being just a small country in the world, we have to use the power we have internationally to influence the world in the direction we want it to evolve. The situation we've seen now, with the refugee disaster that is happening around the Mediterranean, shows that the misunderstanding that has been in this country that it's just the signals from this hall and from the government that determine how many refugees are coming, and that it's completely disconnected from any international action, has now been proven to be completely wrong. We have never accepted as many asylum seekers as we have now, we have never accepted as many quota refugees as we have now, and we have never had a challenge for Europe like what we have now. It is not because the Left has liberalised the asylum rules for asylum children, but because we are facing a huge international challenge, with the core of a war in the Middle East. We have to deal with the refugee crisis in this country with a good integration policy where we get people to work quickly and where people quickly become part of the Norwegian society, and we have to have an active foreign policy – where we also work with other countries – that ensures that we get the big challenges we're facing. The second major challenge facing us as a nation and as a world society is the climate challenge. This will require enormous changes in a country like Norway, cf. the figures I mentioned on oil exports and gas exports and the role of Norway in them. We have to change the Norwegian economy. It's not like it sometimes works in the election campaign, that you can only adopt a year when it's over – or as it could work in the science fiction series on TV2 yesterday, that you had decided a time. It's not the time that's adopted that's interesting. The interesting thing is when we've managed to create the option, because the oil age is over when the option is there, and that option we have to work on developing every day. Its faster we are able to create those jobs, the faster we will be able to create the new energy. Its faster we manage to create the jobs that can convert our oil industry into more long-term jobs, its faster oil age is over. Then we're going to create alternative businesses and also alternative energy. We have many industries in Norway that we can invest in to create jobs, well-being and growth in the future. One is the energy field, where we clearly have both competences and natural resources that provide opportunities for further creation in the future. The second is the maritime sector — which has always been one of the key industries in Norwegian business life — which has a high growth potential and which must also have it in the future, but then we have to bet on the changes that are needed in that sector as well. So for the production of biomass in this country. Today we have a timber industry that exports raw materials abroad, and we see that very many of the products that have traditionally been made of oil can now be made of biomass. Getting this transition requires both the creativity and ingenuity of Norwegian politicians. It requires us to facilitate that transition in business, but it also requires us to push the solutions that we know are needed to get to that conversion. For this reason, the Left has, for example: a proposal, discussed here in Stortinget, to take additional action on the base. It's about cutting emissions, but it's also about pushing forward new technologies that can be part of and be a changer, even within the industries that we have there traditionally today. To put it this way, there are some things we don't know that help right now, and there's more tax, uncertainty about the EEA and a more rigid work environment law. There are no solutions Norwegian business needs right now. We want to help fight all the differences that grow in a society. We have done this when we introduce free core time into kindergartens this autumn, introduce cheaper kindergartens for all low-income families – all the suggestions we have made before in the years, we now see that we are slowly but surely allowed to introduce. If there's something to compensate for differences, it's a good start for all children, an equal start for all children, and then kindergartens are one of the keys. The third major challenge we face together is the promise of knowledge that we need to bring this country through in order to cope with the changes that we need. Then the school is key to that. I'm glad that the government in the throne said that the long-term plan for research should now be continued, but I don't think there was much new there in terms of thinking about how we're going to develop our schools in the future. We need to continue raising our skills for teachers, we need to bet on what we know actually works to make our schools better, we need to use research as the basis for the political grips needed within the school, and not let the jaws of ideology be the driving force for this. We know what works – wise, good teachers always work. So I think we're going to dry to think again, think again about how we organize our school days, think again about what we're going to have in or out of Norwegian school. My trip to School-Norway before the summer, where I visited almost a hundred schools, gave me many impulses from teachers who seem to put too much into the short time they have available with the kids. The left will present a proposal on the lobby register – for the nth time – in this debate. I hope it gets a positive treatment, especially in the light of the debates we've had lately. I know this is going to happen, so you can't just introduce it instead of fighting it? We want to create a system so that you can have high confidence in Norwegian politicians. Openness is always a factor in increasing confidence in the political processes, and a lobby register would have been an important and major step in that direction. Otherwise, the Left will also, as we have always done before, lift the privacy of this harvest session. We had a big debate this summer about kids and privacy, where we've seen that the boundaries of when it's okay to monitor Norwegian citizens, sail if they're in your own family, are constantly being moved away, step by step. We think that the kids might have been right to their own data protection convention to check where the boundaries are going, and to get to a public debate about where the boundaries are going, for what are the kids' right to know, when the adults actually know. We must also fight against the ever-growing surveillance of cameras. We see that the security laws and developments in Europe's security laws make new demands on us to review the principles of national surveillance and the boundaries between what to monitor in order to achieve security and what to avoid monitoring because each individual citizen has to have his or her private life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e911	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e916	We have behind us a municipal election where people have given the government parties – the Right and the Advance Party – a strong decline, and where we have had a shift of government in very many municipalities and counties, from the right to the centre/left – among others. Oslo, Bergen, Bodø, Hordaland, Rogaland, Troms and Buskerud. Often this shift is supported by the Left, and also where we had a red-green cooperation from before, the Left has come along, like for example. in Trondheim or Bergen, Hordaland and Rogaland. People see a government that is passive in its efforts against a twenty-year record of unemployment, which causes municipalities to cut in schools and care for the elderly, and which also has a finance minister who says that we should pump up every single drop of oil, or a second-leader who speaks out about immigration policy in a way that must be very distant from the left. Why does the Left continue to hesitate at land level to stick with a government with the Right and the Advance Party? Is there any other liberal party throughout Europe that has put a party as the Progress Party into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e921	The left will always use its power to get through as much as possible. We're always going to use our tilting power for, among other things. to have a more liberal refugee and asylum policy, which we have received in Norway. As I said, it is so far 318 more asylum children who are allowed to stay in Norway than when the party of Giske crashed. Together with the Progress Party, we doubled the number of quota refugees, and now we've increased it to 8 000. We have a more liberal refugee and asylum policy in cooperation with the Progress Party than what the Labour Party stood for when they crashed, also with the refugee disasters that we see right now. It's an irrevocable fact. For us, there is a policy of cooperation. For us, it's what you get, that carries cooperation. I have great confidence in my locals, that they are trying to fight for the environment, climate and a good school in all the local negotiations they have. Now they're not ready in Bergen, but I'm sure it'll be fine if the Workers' Party gives us the collective promise you actually need to get the urban air in Bergen better. For us, it is politics that carries, and for us, it is politics that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e928	In the census, the field of culture was not mentioned – perhaps not particularly surprising given that over the last two years, we have seen a government that does not give priority to culture at all, either politically or in the state budget. The glow and the commitment are gone, the cultural promise is shattered. The cultural sector no longer receives the share of the state budget it deserves, and we have been presented for gross and large cuts in popular schemes, such as: The cultural walking stick, cut to Film-Norway, cut to volunteer – the list is long. Last week we heard that the government is now proposing to exclude festivals in Norway, among others. The island festival here in Oslo, predictability and support for the state budget by bringing down the node scheme. The left tends to call itself a cultural party. What does the representative Skei Grande think about the constant loss of the cultural sector for all other budgetary areas under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e933	I'm not the world's best to remember numbers, but I think I remember that the Minister of Culture had a rather large percentage increase in his budget in the last round, but it's quite right that it got even better after it was negotiated with the Left, and it's probably even higher on our agenda. That is why we have prioritised it in the negotiations. That's why we've been able to get the additions we need. If we are to have a conversion of the node scheme, which I also believe we should have, we must have predictability, and that is to ensure that there is predictability also for Festival-Norway. Now there's going to be a rise in the film sector too, which the Left is going to support. We're going to support a lot of what's in the film message, but we're also going to have other views that we hope we get a majority in this room together with others. I understand that the Workers' Party is trying to cling to a walking stick where the money was transferred to another pot. I don't think there's any basis for saying there's any other massive cut. That walking stick has been critical to the Left since it was created, but we got it put in place again because of the fighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e938	I also want to go into the cultural field. I know that the Left and Trine Skei Grande are engaged in culture all over Norway. I also know that the Left is engaged in the broad culture and culture of the whole country. In the last few days it has just been discussed in the media this with the node festivals, how they are distributed. I have the impression that there is a demand from the Festival Norway that we have a review and look at the scheme, and that it is more equally distributed. We know that there are 16 node festivals that get 99 million. kr, and we know that 100 other local festivals only get 45 million. kr. Will the Left Join in a Review? Does the Left see the need for a review? Does the Left See That There Is an Unfair Order? We know that the Molde jazz festival is worth $12 million. kr, and Kongsberg Jazzfestival gets 2.5 million. kr. See the left bias distribution here?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e943	The Node Point Scheme was created at a different time, it is 20 years old. It was made when Festival-Norway looked completely different. Within the different genres of music you can also see that node festivals play a very different role. There's a big difference. The jazz festival in Molde has a whole undergrowth of jazz festivals in Norway, which have to be assessed how to provide the best support for, professionally well, while for example. The Øya Festival is supported by journalistic work, i.e. getting international journalists in to meet the Norwegian music field, which is a very different support than many of the others get. What's important to me is that the festivals know which game rules apply, know what it's like to get support, and that when we're going to evaluate the arrangements, we have some predictability, so that we can keep the professionalism of Norwegian festivals. But the system should be evaluated, it should be amended, and it should be related to how the time is right now, because it is old-fashioned and out of date as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e948	The left will give priority to making the state budget greener, I understand the statements made by the left-wing spokesperson prior to the presentation. There are good signals from the Left, but my question is how the party can at the same time become a voice party for the expansion of the Sunday trade and several Sunday open shops, which will result in increased energy use, increased car traffic and greatly increased climate emissions. Western research has recently investigated the potential environmental impact of Sunday open shops and shows that opening up to Sunday open national customer transport will increase climate emissions and increase even more strongly with the local solution of the Left. Western research indicates that Sunday-open shops will in any case generate increased climate emissions, and most of the time by a municipal increase, because there will be an increase in transport between municipalities that have chosen different solutions. Does the Left believe that the liberalisation of Sunday trade is a good fight for the party, even though the consequences are increased car traffic and increased climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e957	The Western research has been researched is the government's proposal and not the Left's. I notice that the Center Party is against the municipalities getting more power. That is what the Left has stood for, but the power obviously does not appear to be the Central Party that local politicians are able to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e963	I staggered a little as I heard the representative Giske polemize that the Progress Party will pump up every last drop of oil. I also thought that was the Labour Party's policy. It is a good reminder that environmental parties at Stortinget still have a long way to go in achieving a proper climate change in Norway. The left fights well to get it through in negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party, and SV has had that role with the Labour Party in the past. None of the parts are particularly simple tasks. The representative, Skei Grande, knows all about that. But we've both won well. One of them is to stop oil drilling in Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. A new challenge we are facing now, and which is not decided in the Storting, is mining waste in the Fördefjord. There it has to negotiate in order to stop the government's emissions permit. My question to the representative of Skei Grande is: Will the Left, in order to cooperate on the state budget in the autumn, demand that there be a stop to the plans for landfill in Fördefjorden?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e972	I thank you for the show, and I'd like to give it back. We fight on each side to make things greener, and we have a huge challenge. As far as fjord landfills are concerned, we have the same challenge. Here it is the Workers' Party and the Right that stand together to do something as prehistoric as it can only be thought to use our fjords for the disposal of waste and chemicals. I'm going to use every thrift in my body to stop this. I'm going to use all the creativity I have to stop this. This is prehistoric, it's made for a completely different time, we can't stand for that kind of argument and solution. But if the representative Serigstad Valen had followed me a little bit, he would have known that I have never said in my entire life, ‘If not..., I will...’ I have achieved a lot more by never offering any guarantees in the negotiations. But I can confirm that this has both been recorded and will be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e981	The representative Skei Grande had an excellent review of Norway's real place and real responsibility in a number of areas of the world. One of the things the representative wasn't inside is the average material consumption of the Northman, which we all know is in absolute top class in the world, and which has a level that is completely unimaginable to others. It is also unmistakable that the earth can withstand such consumption over a long period of time. There's two ways to do something about it. One is to hope that the purchasing power goes down by itself, and that you get a so-called positive environmental impact of it, along with all the other, bad, consequences, the other is to try to do something concrete about it. The Green Party has, as is well known, presented a proposal to be examined in the Energy and Environment Committee on concrete measures to reduce material consumption in Norway. Is the Left, which has previously been concerned with the problem of consumption, willing to support the work of such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e990	This is a great opportunity to show the difference between the Green Party and the Left. We're distinguishing between different types of consumption. To symbolize this very easily: if we take a large truckload of dung and empty it one place, it's pollution. If we spread it, it's fertilizer. The way we consume, the way we drain the earth for resources, the way we use energy, is the key to whether we can bear that consumption. That's why we believe in using new technologies and new opportunities and charging the environmentally hostile consumption, and then lowering the taxes on the consumption that doesn't drain the earth for resources. That's how we make it possible for people to make the green choices. That's how we make it possible for people actually to make our consumption much greener. It's about using resources properly, putting them in proper recycling. That's the difference between fertiliser and pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e997	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1000	Our biggest test now is our management of the refugee crisis. East of Molyvos, which is a tiny town on the tip of the island of Lésvos, I saw a month ago how it is to a large extent a small group of volunteers who have been given the task of receiving the refugees who set foot on European soil for the first time. A few of the volunteers stood with a look at the decoration of a cliff and looked for boats, others came out on the beaches and met those who were so lucky to get ashore. I believed at the time that the scale of the refugee crisis was going to make us see a much stronger response from governments all over Europe, but what we've seen in the last few weeks is that even when some of these refugees have come to Norway, to Oslo, to Tøen, it is voluntary people who have accepted them, because the response and commitment to our government and our authorities have been far too tame and undecided. It is good that a new reception centre should now be built in Eastfold. However, it is necessary in this debate to point out how the government has failed to act in time in response to the increasing flow of refugees across the border with Norway. Municipalities have reported that there was a shortage of funds for housing and activities. The reception capacity was reduced last year, despite many warning that the number of refugees could increase. The government has not rusted Norway for the situation we are now facing. One thing is that Norway was not rusted in advance, it is worse that Norway has not been rusted enough after it became clear how many refugees are coming. It is also reflected in the wrong priorities, such as when the elected representatives of the Foreign Affairs Unit report a severe sentence on the Minister of Justice in the class struggle before the weekend to continue to question a prioritisation of broadcasts in a situation where resources should have been used to receive people in a good enough way. Today, we want to demand more leadership in Norway and Norwegian contributions to those who show leadership in Europe. The government should do as Germany does and as Sweden does. The government should play an active role in establishing a European Works of Agreements and said more clearly and in the past that Norway will take responsibility within it. The government should do as Germany does, stop the use of Dublin returns to Syrian refugees and to refugees coming from the countries that now bear the greatest burden in Europe, countries such as Italy and Hungary. However, the government would not have stopped the Dublin return. It was in our greatest interest to negotiate the number of Syrian refugees as low as possible, and half the government used the election campaign to ask the municipalities not to settle refugees. I think it is natural for the Minister of Finance to come to the Stortinget to answer the question asked earlier by the representative Jonas Gahr Støre in this debate. I think that's an expectation from an overall opposition in this persuasion debate. We are in the midst of the greatest refugee disaster since World War II. It's a desperate situation. The capacity of neighbouring countries is shattered, and it is not just inevitable, but just and fair, that Europe is taking its share of responsibility. It's about helping more in the neighbourhoods, but it's also about accepting refugees. Then we have to think about how. There will have to be a debate on the Dublin Agreement, which is not working well enough, but the fact that such a debate is pending does not prevent Norway itself from taking a joint step. We can do as the Germans have done, and that is why SV is promoting the proposal in this Chamber today. We need to think again about integration when so many people come to Norway and ask for our help. We can be better both when it comes to getting people to work, and when it comes to early access to good language training, and one of the keys to it being a more efficient settlement. Therefore, SV is today promoting proposals for a more efficient settlement system. There are new ideas and better solutions, and it's a shame that there are so few of them from this government. Solidarity is strong among the people of Norway now. We have a people who want so much, but a government that wants so little. The Trontal said that the blue policy for Norway and the Government's plan for migration are still increasing differences, more centralisation and a notion that Norway will be able to rely on fossil energy for far too long in the future. Large differences are poisoned by a society, and therefore it is central to SV's policy to reduce the economic and social inequality in Norwegian society. The aim of fiscal policy, distribution policy and welfare policy must be to make work pay, but today too much money is spent on inheritance and on large wealth to earn instead. While the labour force has been smothered in tax havens, while those with the least in society have experienced a cut in the child supplement to the disabled and a real drop in the purchasing power of pensioners this year, many of them at the top have received huge tax cuts. Instead, we should pursue an active policy of redistribution in Norway. We in SV are not afraid to say that we want both inheritance tax and a higher property tax, and we want to combine it with lower taxes for those who earn the least, and for example. increased child-responsiveness, especially for those who are single-parenters and have many children, in order to reduce child-restraint. We want a new youth guarantee for the many youth unemployed, which we see will be more of in Norwegian society right now. We believe that all young people under the age of 25 must be entitled to work, education or relevant action within three months. We believe that the fight for full and permanent jobs is crucial for social cohesion in Norway and that the new work environment law is moving in the wrong direction. SV's proposal for a full-day school, about a new school day in Norway with more teachers, is a proposal to give all children the same opportunities – the same opportunity to be seen by a teacher with time to help, the same opportunity for help with homework that parents can help get today. The full-time school is also a project to reduce the major social inequality in health that we see today among children and the rest of the population in Norway. The representative of Greece said in his post that the green shift is going on, and we hear more and more that it is being said. There has been a rhetorical shift in Norway. The sad thing is that the political shift has not come as far. The biggest investment still goes far too far to extend the oil age, while what we should do is to invest far more heavily in the jobs we're going to live on in the long term. A shift can not only mean a hope of doing more of something new, it must also mean doing less of something old. The decline now experienced by Norway is a strong warning that if we do not reduce our oil dependence more quickly, the result will be industrial death and unemployment in the future. So it's not a responsible climate policy with a focus on renewable industries that is a bad business policy, but an irresponsible climate policy where we think we can lean on oil for too long. Therefore, in this session SV will call for bolder steps in food and environment policy: a proper national effort on eel ferries, which can both mandate the yard industry and create a new green market for Norway, marine wind demonstration plants and new car emissions targets. We believe it is a natural goal that in 2020, nine out of ten new cars sold in Norway will be zero-emission cars. Increased disparities, inaction in the face of the refugee crisis and water retention in the face of the climate crisis make Norway a colder society. The SV's project and what will permeate all the policies and proposals we will promote in this session are the opposite, it's taking a choice of solidarity and taking the fight for a warm society. With that I will also address the two proposals from SV that have been distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1019	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1024	The representative Lightground is occupied with minor differences. Then I want to start by reminding you that more people work less differently. But it is true that the SV and the Environmental Party of Greens were the only parties in the Stortinget that voted against the development of Johan Sverdrup. Contracts have so far been awarded worth 45 billion. kr to Norwegian industry in connection with Sverdrup. Had it not been for Sverdrup, thousands more than is the case today would have been without work. If SV refuses to expand a very profitable field that is also electrified, such as Sverdrup, is there any finding on Norwegian base SV that would support the development of? Probably not. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens share a policy that says no to all new developments on the Norwegian base. My question is: What government option will SV work to ensure that their and the Environment Party The Greens' oil policy, with no to all new developments on Norwegian soil, becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1033	The last question I think the representative Bru already knows the answer. SV will work for the government option that makes the Right Party and the Advance Party leave the government offices at the very earliest time, and we will work on that with energy and enthusiasm to get to. So I noticed that the right has talked a lot about SV voting against Johan Sverdrup. I have also noticed that the area where SV might have been the most obvious in the autumn elections was along the west coast, where this rhetoric stood strongest – in Bergen, in Stord, in Haugesund, in Stavanger, in Egersund. It's because many of us who are from the West see that our region is just the most vulnerable if we misinvest for the future. What is our fear of Johan Sverdrup is that it locks up so much effort in fossil energy at a time when it is very uncertain how long our country will be able to benefit from such investments, that we should also invest more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1040	When SV was part of the red-green government, they led a very active oil policy. Now I register a very great scepticism for future oil policy from the representative Lysbakken. My question must then be: Is no to Sverdrup the first step? Does this now mean that SV here announces a tighter oil policy that is more similar to and closer to the Environmental Party The Greens' oil policy, with an active closure of the industry, a phase-out, within 20 years? Is there any SV going to stand behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1045	Norway is going to be an oil nation for a long time. The danger is that if the political majority in Norway is too busy investing too much in oil, then there will be bad business policies over time. We're going to lose the jobs and the industry that can change, if we don't put too many of the best minds and too much of the big money and the political energy into extending the oil adventure as far as possible. What SV does now, is an extension of the historical line SV has stood for by being positive to the development of an oil industry in Norway, but for several decades progressed at a lower rate. Had we had a lower pace, we would also have been better equipped to meet the situation in Norway today. So it's a tradition I'm proud of. SV has been for the development of the Norwegian oil industry, but against making Norway as unilaterally dependent on the oil as we have become, and now we see the negative consequences of that dependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1051	It was interesting to note that the representative Lysbakken was very critical of the government's handling of the refugee situation, but I would like to see a government that had managed to move faster to get in place, among other things. the reception centres that are now being put in place. This government also delivers in a very demanding situation, and I am absolutely very happy that the government does. Then I register that the representative Lyssbakken is very concerned about presenting himself and SV as the party that is the nicest in the class – stupid, someone might claim. But this, of course, is about how many to accept. SV is against, obviously, that they should be sent out with illegal stay – I am glad that there is a broad majority that is to send out those who do not have legal residence in Norway. But the question really is, how many do you mean, how many do you have to accept? You didn't agree with the 8 000 deal, you would accept a lot more, and now you're talking like you want to open the boundaries. How many tens of thousands a year does SV think it is natural for Norway to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1058	I can only rejoice that the representative of Leirstein is so positive that one of the things he now has to contribute to his own electors in Eastfold is a new reception. I'm glad. And if we can get a broad consensus that it's important and right, nothing is better than that. It is also true that neither the representative Leirstein nor I can establish a number of how many refugees Norway should accept. As far as I can see, the government and the Swedish Government share the view that the Syrian refugees, including those who come here, who need protection, should also remain in Norway. In addition, there is a debate on how many quota refugees Norway should receive, either through the UN quota or through a future European system. There will certainly be an SV proposal to accept more than the Advance Party will agree to. Then time will show how much Europe will need to distribute the refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1065	The representative Lysbakken used a rhetorical point by repeating several sentences that the ‘government should’ in the field of asylum and immigration policy. We in the Christian People's Party can very much agree with the views that we must work for a worthy and good asylum and immigration policy. But the fact is that the settlement has increased significantly in the last few years compared to what we experienced when we took over in 2013 by 5,000 people on asylum reception. In addition, we have incorporated into the cooperation agreement and started developing a new reception and integration model. After the canonona representative had, I was left with a question: What concrete and realistic proposals does SV now have for which they have not been able to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1072	A good example of this is the proposal we have made today on a new housing model. I wish we could discuss it a little bit prejudiced and past the debate on coercion or not. We believe that housing must be a fundamental task for the municipalities. No one calls for coercion when talking about municipalities providing good care for the elderly, for example. We need a more efficient settlement system if we are to be able to settle the many refugees who are coming to Norway now and get integration going in a better way. It was a proposal that was sent out at the hearing of the Red-Green Government at the time I was the Minister of Inclusion, for which it was not possible to gather support for then, and which we are promoting again now because we believe that the years have passed have shown that it will be a sensible change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1077	The representative said that Norway is not equipped to deal with the reception of the many refugees that are coming. Yes, I agree, but after having been to Lésvos and seeing and hearing and learning what we are facing, I am reasonably humble. It has not been possible to be rusted in advance for what we now experience. I was a sailor at the Foreign Office of the Police on Tøen 22nd September and saw it. I gave my advice, but what's at the core now is that we need to establish a common sense of reality about what we're facing, as soon as possible. In my opinion, it must be based on warmth and firmness – heat and firmness. Many thousands need to stay, temporarily or permanently, in Norway. Houses that are not in use, that are winter insulated, that have electricity, that have water, and that have a wood stove, can be used. A practical question: is there a standard that SV can vouch for?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1082	It was a little unclear to me what was in that standard, but I think the question of Lundtigen's basics is: are we willing to deviate part from the requirements we normally make, in order to get temporary solutions in the meeting with an extraordinary situation? The answer to that is yes, and then we have to discuss together what it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1087	Norway is facing an enormous transformation into a time of much lower oil revenues. In the future, we will have important discussions about the welfare state, about the tax level, about labour participation. One of the SV's answers that flagged high in the election campaign is the introduction of six-hour day, yet with full pay compensation. Of course, more leisure time is pleasant, but Norway already has shorter working hours than almost all other countries. The central statistical agency estimates that the introduction of six-hour day will reduce value creation and thus reduce the well-being of the population. The estimated budget deficit of 2060 will at best go from 2.5 pst. to 11.2 pst. We have a huge shortage of labour, not least in the care sector. In what way does the representative Lysbakken think that six-hour day is a good answer to the enormous challenge facing Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1094	The main challenge facing Norway is a distribution challenge. The projections we have show that Norway is still going to be a much richer country, we are going to consume more and more. Then the question is, how is that going to happen? Is it to be socially and environmentally sustainable, or is it to be done in a socially unfair and environmentally unsustainable way? Our idea of shorter working hours does not least spring out of the reality of many women in those parts of working life where there are still heavy, physically demanding jobs that many get sick of, many disappear from working life too early because of, and where shorter working hours could be an option that gives people better lives to live here and now and an opportunity to stand in the way of life. The century behind us shows that shorter working hours were possible – working hours have been reduced over and over again as productivity has increased. If productivity increases in this century, shorter working hours will also be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1099	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1102	All speakers in this debate have pointed out that Norway is on the way to major changes. These are changes that are not cheap and will require difficult choices. But there are also changes that will strengthen us if we take them seriously enough, and if we bet big enough, early enough. Both the oil price drop, the new unemployment and the refugee crisis remind us of the consequence of not being prepared. In each way, this gives some indication of what Norway is facing — a long-standing, unstable situation along parts of Europe’s borders with direct implications for foreign policy, municipalities and families in Norway, and a new situation where Norway’s largest export goods are pressed from three sides: overproduction and price falls affecting the most expensive producers first climate policy measures in many countries that push fossil energy renewable energy that are becoming increasingly competitive It is not going to meet such challenges with adjustments to yesterday’s policy. This year's census goes further than last year's in recognising that changes are coming. The Green Party welcomes the warning by the government of measures that can initiate the development of sustainable solutions in business, education and transport. However, it requires targets that are proportionate to the challenges, it requires willingness to give priority, and it requires commitment. Unfortunately, in recent decades, Norwegian policies have been full of policies that have become nothing because the objectives have been too vague and because the commitments have been too weak. We welcome the announcement by the government of a strategy for a bioeconomy – the truly green industries. The bioeconomy must be a major part of the Norwegian industry of the future, and the Greens have already called for the creation of a Bionova, an Enova for the bio-industries, which we hope the government will implement quickly. We also welcome a bet in vocational schools to improve students' opportunities in a working life that is too crowded for many, and with a school that produces such a horrific dropout today, we get a bad social policy and a bad social economy. We need schools that provide more practical and labour-oriented knowledge, and we need a more flexible working life that gives room to more people. It's when we live in community life and become part of the big, new opportunities, that changes become permanent and create more change. People who have started garbage sorting want more recycling. They don't want to go back to the old dungeon. People who have started cycling want more bike paths. They don't want a car queue. People who have installed solar cells want more smart technology, and people who live in green municipalities want greener municipalities. The Green Party will work hard in county councils, local government and urban districts to ensure that local communities themselves become the drivers – without waiting for the Stortinget – for schools that provide students with mastery and opportunities, for land planning that protects nature and food, for transport services that solve problems instead of creating new ones, for municipal procurement to impose high environmental requirements, and for opening the door and providing room for people who need security. In Moss, who has drowned in cars, Greens' new Vice-President Benedicte will make Moss a bicycle town. In Trondheim, rapporteur Hilde will in practice implement a climate law of 80–90 pst. emissions cut by 2030 that will lead the whole city’s development. In Bodø, the Greens end their traffic growth to the city and to the mall growth. We get full soil protection in Ås, and in Oslo we are talking about the future transport policy, where people, good urban spaces, collective offers and bikes must be at the centre – no more private carism. If we do that, we will set a new standard for Norwegian transport policy. In Sweden's reply to the throne debate three weeks ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven of the Social Democrats said: «Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.» Sweden has already cut 25 pst. of their greenhouse gas emissions, and they have half of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions per capita. Norway must of course have the same ambition and express it at least as clearly. Therefore, we recall that for government, supporting parties and the majority of the opposition, the oil notification is an industry for the future still the most important document in the Norwegian economy, business development and environmental policy. Our biggest industrial project of our time is the new Sverdrup field. It can give us income and jobs, but it will also give us 900 million emissions. tonnes of CO2 and impose an even worse climate cost on our descendants. The Greens will continue to argue that it is irresponsible to bet on producing even more petroleum at a time when everyone knows that we already produce too much, use too much and have found too much. If the signals of change are to be more than signals, all major efforts from now on must be made in bio-industries, in wind, in the sun and in a number of other forward-looking sectors. The Green Party will continue to point out that it is becoming less and less financially responsible to use hundreds of billions of Community funds to advance future oil activities in the hope of getting money back in a few decades, while the risk is increasing rapidly to the point of losing this money. We are therefore going to propose that the government investigate how the schemes that are currently raising new investments in the petroleum sector can be transferred to the new green and sustainable industries that we need to build. Since the oil industry was to be built up in Norway in the 1970s, the government presented a large-scale notification with objectives and criteria that provided the basis for a well-planned development of the oil sector. Building new, sustainable industrial sectors in Norway to replace the oil sector is an even larger project that requires even more targeted work at national level. The Green Party will therefore propose that the government present an overall plan for the transition to sustainable and fossil-free Norway. Europe and its environment are changing. Libya, Iraq and Syria do not function as states and do not provide their inhabitants with elementary security. They create enormous problems for the states around them. There is every reason to fear that this situation will last. Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian refugee policy must respond to this. We cannot face today's refugee disaster with a policy designed for yesterday's situation. Before the summer, the Greens agreed to form a broad compromise for a more ambitious refugee policy. We believe it was important to create a broad consensus on accepting more people in need, and we believe it provides a good basis for the significant escalation that is now absolutely necessary. Norway shall stand before the right of asylum. Those who must flee from war and oppression must be able to receive protection in Norway. Those who have no reason to stay should return home. We've all been told: people want to help more, people want to receive more. Hospitality and help for those who need it has always been and must always be a core value in a good and secure society. Fortunately, this value is still available in Norway as well. I'm glad the government in the throne is making it clear that we're going to help more. But helping more means, among other things. aside from a practice where money for a new refugee disaster is taken from other aid projects. It's unreasonable to help people in distress by taking away people in distress. It is short-term to resolve crises by taking money from work to prevent crises. The Greens are ready to sit down with other parties to discuss how we should further develop the agreement on refugees before the summer, both to help more people now and to help more long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1156	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1160	In fact, the Greens have received support from the SSB for their view that it is possible to reduce working time, increase taxes and maintain a welfare state at today's level, but it requires the same productivity growth as we have seen in the last decades, based on fossil energy. The problem is that the Greens' programme explicitly states that we cannot expect productivity growth to continue after a green turnaround. It also states that in sectors such as care and food production, manual labour should be increased, not reduced – i.e. more heavy labour, less efficient agriculture, less productivity. As a result, the condition for maintaining today's welfare level is also broken, and it is quite legitimate to want to reduce both growth and well-being, which is then inevitable. The Greens have already explained much about the reduction in growth, but I wonder what the Greens will reduce in the welfare state, and how.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1167	Firstly, I was very enthusiastic about the fact that a representative from the Right finally got this report from the Statistical Central Bureau, which actually confirms that it is possible to maintain a welfare state after today's model with a reduction in working time. It's a really good start. Then is the point of the Green Party that today's welfare objectives cannot be based on the welfare norm we would need in 10, 20 and 30 years, because a future standard based on today's objectives is based on assumptions about consumption and assumptions about overproduction that are completely unrealistic. The perspective message assumes that we will triple our consumption in 2060. I'm very happy that I'm not going to live in that community, and I don't even think Heidi Nordby Lunde wants to live in it. We know that the oil business must be reduced or gone at that time, and we must have invented other solutions that underpin the welfare state. It's a picture that I can't fully describe, but it's an image that needs to be described.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1174	It sounds like today's welfare level is actually broken. I have another question. As a volunteer childless, I have considerable sympathy for those who do not see the need for us to multiply in death and life. Nevertheless, I have to admit that I was a bit over Hansson's statements to the Class struggle that it is «very nice that the population growth in Norway declines», and that we must «start planning our societies in order that there will be no more of us». – I repeat: ‘plan our societies so that there will be no more of us’. I wish my curiosity here were primarily purely economic: how are we going to finance today's welfare schemes in the future when it gets fewer in jobs that are going to pay for more elderly sick and needy? But what I'm asking, in fact, is most: how are we going to make sure that those who want children don't get it? Of course, the representative is free to answer both, but I encourage him to answer the last one first: how are the Greens going to make sure that people who want children don't get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1183	The Greens have never at any time been prepared to prevent people from having children if they want to have them. The answer I gave in the class struggle was an answer to a claim, which I have not checked out, in the class struggle that the Workers' Party was in favour of measures to increase the number of childbirth in it – as far as I knew – the white Norwegian population. I said there was some hesitation, and I said that the Norwegian population that is known to be increasing due to immigration, and that there is no need to take extra measures to increase the birth rate in the rest of the Norwegian population. So it's a fact that it's awfully stupid -- from a lot of perspectives -- if the world's population continues to grow, and it's also not very lucky for Earth's future if the population that has the highest consumption continues to grow. In Norway, however, the fact that population growth is flattening is not least radical, but that the future of Norway is based on the continuous growth of the population is a very low level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1195	I think we could have continued the discussion on family policy. The Green Party and the Christian People's Party are not fully in line. On the other hand, I wanted to start by congratulating the Greens on a good choice. In the interior, there are less than 30 representatives representing the center. If it had been a big shot at the beginning of September now, there would have been over 40 representatives. Then I took the Greens with the Greens in that presentation. I notice that the Greens like to talk more about themselves as a block-independent and are not so much happy about the topic of 'centre', but the debate on the throne is a possibility to raise the perspective and the political landscape, and my question is, What kind of a political family is the Environment Party you know closest to? Is that the left or right side? Or is it the center?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1204	Thank you for the question from the representative Hareide, who I have answered wonderfully many times, as far as I can remember. The answer is that we feel in ourselves as a member of the entire Norwegian party family, without preferences for either the right or the left or to the extent that there is a center, but with preference for those parties that prioritise a sustainable future and a responsible use of Earth's resources for the benefit of those who come after us. It's often the case that parties that define themselves as center parties are close to our policies in that area, and that's why I see a lot of opportunities for cooperation there. We have also challenged, among other things. The Christian People's Party to work together to challenge the two great grey parties, the Right and the Workers' Party, to press them into better environmental policies. So far, the desire of both the Christian People's Party and other parties to belong to some block has been so strong that we have not received it, but the possibilities can come in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1211	I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Greens with a good election result and not least with the new Svalbard local party. It is referred to by the representative and party man Hansson as the coolest local layer, but the right thing would be to refer to it as the ‘coldest’ local layer of the Environment Party Dei Green. The Green Party is clear that they will have a dramatic shift in Norwegian industry, from impudent industry to green industry, and the signal is that they will not have oil and gas industries in Norway, but they are totally dependent on the revenues of this sector to get their green shifts. So they want to live by the motto: we want the benefits of this activity, but we don't want to go back. The budget for 2015 is that one has an exchange from Statoil of 15 billion. kr, income from State petroleum activities of 153 billion. kr, tax of about 173 billion. SEK – a total of 341,95 billion. kr. Should not the Environmental Party of Greens present an alternative state budget with a use of money independent of income – including taxes and taxes – from the oil and gas sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1220	The environmental party The Greens' political objectives are, as is well known, the closure of the Norwegian oil industry over 20 years. Another way to say it is that we are going to have oil business – and revenues from oil business – for 20 years, and it would be pretty pointless not to budget for it. We are the party so financially responsible that we are now starting to prepare Norway for the future that comes – even if the Progress Party is in government in 20 years’ time – namely a future without oil as its main income and as its main activity. It's a future we have to be able to solve, and it's a future where we have to be able to create well-being without oil. Our neighboring country, Sweden, is already doing it, and it's very pessimistic and testifies to the very poor belief in Norwegian industry and business to assume that we're going to depend on oil business and oil revenues forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1227	I also think it is nice to congratulate the Greens with the good choice they had now. We are in negotiations with the party in many places – in small municipalities, in large municipalities and in large cities – and I think it is an input of many good ideas related to the good environment in the municipalities, and we look forward to that. I would like to ask a question about that proposal by the Workers' Party at the beginning of this meeting. I think I got a fairly open view from the Right, it was mentioned from the Christian People's Party – the view of the permitting code. The change that Hansson wants will also require many people to change jobs, many companies have to change. Now it's not safe for the Green Party to get to grips with this issue, but it's certainly interesting to hear how you think about what many people now want, namely that you can get a longer period of leave than the one that is today. What is the view of the party on that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1232	Thank you for the congratulations both from the Workers' Party and from previous parties for which I have forgotten to give due thanks. The simple answer is that the proposal came today, and we haven't had time to discuss it. So I can't give any categorical answer to how the party is going to relate to it. But there is no doubt that the Greens are going to put the same emphasis on action as other parties that will allow people who are now losing, and are still going to lose, work in the oil sector and oil-related professions, to give them the transition time they need in a decent way to get back into work. Then, the challenge of the Green Party to the Workers' Party will be to demand support for a size-scale reinvestment in business, and a transfer of investment from more oil activities to the industry to which these people are going to go, which is proportionate to the task.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1240	We almost get to congratulate each other on the choice we then, I guess I'll say. I know that the representative Hansson is concerned with agricultural policy and was so much concerned with it in a previous line to the Head of Parliament of the Central Party. As I have seen the Greens' Environment Party, they want more land use than we get today. If we're going to exploit pastures and have livestock production on the outback of the country, both sheep and cattle, we have a challenge, and it's that we meet predators. There are 65 coals of yew puppies registered in Norway this year, the national stock target is 39. Last year, 52 coals were registered. There are some people who have suggested guessing the predators, it may be a bit costly and a little demanding, but I wondered what other measures the Green Party will help to give grazing animals priority in order to exploit the pastures, for example. in Gudbrandsdalen and other marginal areas in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1245	The Green Party believes that no industry can in the future be based on eradicating the part of Norwegian nature that might not fit them. If we are to have sustainable agriculture in Norway in the future, we must also have an agricultural sector capable of dealing with the nature of Norway. It is not a solution to say that we should remove predators where they are a problem; it is a solution to work more to achieve some kind of coexistence that does not mean that we do not have to destroy Norwegian nature, while continuing Norwegian agriculture. I don't think Norwegian agriculture has any self-interest in the future by becoming known as the one that wiped out important parts of Norwegian nature, in order to be able to continue a form of farming based on not having the part of Norwegian nature called predators. I look with confidence that there is a solution that we can find in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1250	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1253	The Norwegian economy is in a demanding transition. Many families experience considerable job and income uncertainties. I have met several of them, and it is not difficult to understand the insecurity that arises when the workplaces disappear. Therefore, the government’s main priority is work, activity and change. Measures shall help to keep unemployment down and long-term efforts to provide the basis for growth and new jobs. We have known for many years that we need to prepare for less oil and gas activity. Now the conversion has increased due to a significantly lower oil price. For many years, even when the oil price was twice as high as it is now, the right has promoted a policy of knowledge and competitiveness. Now most people recognize that we have to convert the Norwegian economy. New greener jobs must replace those that disappear. We have a good starting point in Norway: high skills, world-class technology environments, large natural resources and good cooperation between the social partners. For several decades it has provided a basis for low unemployment, and it is now a good basis for conversion. The government will contribute to the long-term transition through increased investment in knowledge, research and innovation by paving the way, lower taxes that provide Norwegian companies with a more competitive tax system, and technology efforts that promote the green shift. While taking Norway safely through the long-term transition, we are increasing activity so that valuable engineering skills can be used to equip the country for the future. Therefore, the government invests heavily in maintenance, transportation and construction, and we have a separate package of measures for the yard industry. Activity gives work, but it's not enough alone. This is why we make it easier for companies to train in-house and increase the number of sites for action. It can form a bridge into new jobs or contribute to the transition to existing jobs. A good community economy is primarily important to ensure good welfare services for the inhabitants. At a time when parts of the private sector are experiencing a decline, it is particularly important to have a predictable and good framework for municipalities. This has been guaranteed by the government in 2014 and 2015, and it is also up to the government in the coming years. There is room for increased commitment to school and care for the elderly, but also targeted measures to raise those who need the most in the municipality, people who are struggling with drugs or mental health challenges. A good community economy is not sufficient to address the major challenges in the municipal sector. As a result, work continues on the reform of the municipality. Major municipalities will provide citizens with better welfare services where they live and stronger professional environments that can better facilitate growth and development. A good public sector is important for providing good welfare services, but it is also important for our competitiveness. A modern public sector must be a competitive advantage for Norwegian jobs. This is why the government has started a great deal of work on renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. More trust and less detailed management will provide a more user-oriented public sector. The Programme for Better Governance and Management of the State shall enhance the executive capacity of the administration and contribute to the increased competence of the senior executives and of the management groups. Departments are now removing time thieves, so that competent staff can spend more time doing important tasks for citizens and businesses and less time on unnecessary administration. These measures deliver results. The government also implements a shift in the pace of public sector digitisation. Increased appropriations will be followed up with a dedicated programme to ensure increased strategic ICT competence of senior managers and a digitisation council, which will contribute to more learning and profit-making in the implementation of new projects. The results are as follows: For example, the so-called ‘A’ scheme contributes: for the simplification of 220 000 employers. Five forms have become one. The savings for the companies could be 600 million. kr every year. Digital solutions at Husbanken contribute to simplification for citizens and large savings in municipalities, which do not use valuable labour to record data from paper applications. The main task of the government is to take Norway safely through the changeover. The active substances are work, activity and conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1295	Many of the biggest problems are solved in the municipalities, but the Right Party and the Advance Party have so far prioritised spending 12 billion. kr in tax cuts at the expense of the community and money to the municipalities. This has shaped many of the country's local viewers and not least many of the recordings we get to Stortinget. On the basis of these feedback, the Workers' Party has repeatedly called on the government to finance care for the elderly and the school and to fully compensate for the tax failure in the municipalities. We have also requested sufficient time, finance and clarification from the government in the work on the municipal reform. The answer from the municipal minister has been that the municipal economy is a historic investment and that the enthusiasm for the municipal reform is great. The year's choice led to a sharp decline in the right hand side. My question is: is this signal from the voters strong enough for the government to start listening to the municipalities now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1304	The government listens to the municipalities, and we listen to the inhabitants. We are committed to ensuring a good and predictable municipal economy, which can ensure good schools and good care for the elderly. If you look at the space of action in free income for the municipalities in the last three years in the proposals for the government budget, it's been bigger than it was under the red-green government. But if we're going to use more values, we also have to create more values. When the government lowers taxes on businesses, it is to provide a basis for new growth. As we focus more on knowledge, research and innovation and build roads in both central and district Norway, it is to lay the foundation for value creation. Our most important task in the years to come is to create security for jobs, and we do that through long-term efforts, value creation, so that we can gradually reap more for well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1309	I heard no recognition in that answer. I interpret it as the government will continue as you have ordered, no matter what the voters have given very clear notice. The government has consulted a proposal for a change in property tax on works and uses. This will affect many municipalities. KS has estimated that the government's proposal will cause an income loss to the municipalities of between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr. Reactions have, of course, been strong, also because this proposal will weaken the ability of municipalities to facilitate new jobs at a time that requires it. The Christian People's Party and the Left say to the VG that they will stop the government's proposals. Can the Council of State Sanner now decide whether, despite these signals, the government will continue to submit the proposal to the Storting or whether this proposal is now placed safely in the drawer?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1316	I believe that the Workers' Party must also recognise that the rules in force in this area are unclear and that there is a need for a clean-up. This proposal lies below the Minister of Finance. It has been consulted, and the government will of course consider the proposals that have been put forward. When the proposal is put forward, of course, it is because we are committed to facilitating the creation of value and jobs. Without jobs, without value creation, there will also be no property tax income for the municipalities from this field. This is a proposal that has now been put to the hearing, and the Ministry of Finance will, of course, consider the hearings that have taken place before making proposals for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1325	Municipalities and the majority of people are concerned that we get a wide range of municipal and democratic reform. We have behind us a great deal of processing of task reports for the municipalities, and the Stortinget has also decided to ask for a new communication on regional level in the spring of 2016, i.e. the middle level chosen by the people. I see on the government’s website that there is also a big message about sustainable cities and strong districts. It will come in the spring of 2017. It is important to bring together knowledge, it is important to point to the challenges that lie there, and the tension that can lie embedded in urban and district-central strata. I also attend that message with interest, but I wondered if the minister could explain whether it would then address what the task message and the regional message already point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1330	On the basis of proposals from the Left and cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we have argued that we should have three levels of government in Norway. We are now working, in cooperation with the parties, with new tasks and development of the regional level. There has been a tradition of making one district communication, where district policy is practised, and one city announcement, where urban policy is cultivated. We now want to make a big message where we see the city and district in the context. The districts are on many of the largest resources in our country. Cities have a lot of knowledge institutions, services and logistics. City and district are interdependent, and we want to look at sustainable cities and district policies in the context. Now we are conducting a series of consultation meetings around the country and getting good input from state politicians, local politicians and businesses and developing a policy that points forward, where we see city and district in the context – and not cultivate the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1338	In a previous line-up where I asked the Right for a municipal merger, the Right parliamentary leader said that the Central Party must be allowed to do its work. I can promise – we will. The small municipalities in Norway have many happy inhabitants. They have some of the most satisfied people — it shows all the studies. In addition, the Kommunebarometer of Kommunal Report shows that they are also best at many of the broad welfare services, such as care for the elderly, kindergarten and school. Nevertheless, the government questioned the possibilities of these municipalities. The Council of State said in the Political Quarter on 28 September: every third municipality has a population of 2 500. They are too small for the tasks they are responsible for. Is the Council of State standing by that statement? If he believes that 131 municipalities in Norway are too small, should they be merged, and should this be done by force?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1347	To respond to the last one first, the government is adding a basis for volunteering and good local processes. That's the government's position, and that's the majority of the population's position. Yes, I am about to say that small municipalities – the smallest municipalities – are too small for the tasks they are responsible for. Already when the Stortinget discussed the previous municipal reform, in 1965, it was thought that the municipalities should be between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants. It was before HVPU reform, before hospital reform, before kindergarten reform, before interaction reform. Many municipalities do the task in an excellent way, but they have done it by setting up a large number of intermunicipal companies and working together, and then lifting the tasks out of the local government hall. I want a stronger local democracy, secure and good services where the inhabitants live, and then we need stronger trade unions in Municipality-Norway to ensure the good welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1352	The need for local and regional reform agrees with the Left and Right that more power is being shifted downwards, and more tasks are being decentralised through elected governance. Because I agree with what Marit Arnstad said now, and as she said to me earlier, yes, there are many small municipalities that provide very good services. But one does not create a five-year reform in time, one that is going to last 50 years. And when we rig it, it's also important to bring with it the possibilities that lie in it. Because in this room the majority has been large, sometimes with a winged working party, and it's an ambitious timetable that is now set by the Council of State. Then is my specific question: how will the Council of States now ensure that we have the necessary pressure, so that we can carry out an over-mature reform, which should have been in place long ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1357	Let me stress that most municipalities in Norway provide good services. But it's, as the representative says, so that in a longer perspective we see some major challenges. There will be fewer people working behind each pensioner, there will be a greater need for care, especially for the elderly, and there will be a greater fight for the competent labour force. That's why this is about equipping us for the future and making sure that we have good services where people live. I believe that the community reform is an important reform also in order to slow down the centralisation we have seen over many, many decades. I am pleased with the impatience shown by both the Christian People's Party and the Left in terms of the municipal reform, and it is important that the municipalities now take over the work in a new phase. There have been many investigations. Investigations are important, but at some point political leadership must also be shown in the municipalities, where real negotiations can be conducted and where the benefits of creating new municipalities can be shown to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1364	Green transition must be something other than talk, and it must be done in all sectors, including municipalities, because of the severe climate change that we are now seeing. The storms and floods now hit Norwegian municipalities, and it is urgent that they have the opportunity to make the necessary climate adaptations, because I think everyone understands that you cannot take money from the care of the elderly to clean up the ditches. Prevention costs a lot, cleaning up costs a lot, and helping to bring down local authorities' climate emissions will also cost something in the short term. So far in the government's contributions to the local economy, the government has not added anything to these important tasks. We have asked that question, and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Affairs have said no, we have not added any money to it. SV suggests that we should have our own arrangements so that municipalities can take their climate responsibility, but also that they need more money to make the necessary climate adaptations. Will the Council of State ensure that municipalities receive their own funds for these important tasks in green conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1371	I fully agree that municipalities also play an important role in the transition to a greener economy. This is why the most important thing we can do, is to give greater attention to prevention and to ensure a liberal framework for municipalities that allows priority to be given to such measures. We do not want more designation of grants to municipalities, because designation means more central bureaucracy and more local bureaucracy, but good framework for municipalities gives municipalities an economy to prioritize green conversion. Then we do two more things that I want to underline. One is that we have told the municipalities that they must give priority to three important aspects of local and regional plans. One of the measures concerns climate adaptation. Climate adaptation in local and regional planning is crucial. Then we've also announced that we're going to set up a new altitude model, which is to ensure better digital maps, which is absolutely essential to prevent floods and races. Then we get a tool that both the municipalities and others can use in further planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1381	With the oil price drop and the highest unemployment rate in 20 years, Norway is in a state of demand. In this context, which model of society we choose also means that we can keep unemployment low and employment and innovation high. The logic is simple: To bet, you need a solid foundation under your feet. And solid ground for the most possible we get when the social and economic differences in society are small and the thresholds for participation are low. Here we separate layers from the government. It leads a policy of increasing differences, both when they do not dimension the effort to reduce unemployment correctly, and when their main means of action are cut in the wealth tax – something that primarily strengthens the bottom line of those who have the most in the world. We want a fair tax system, where they with the most ability and determination are also the ones that ask for the most responsibility. We have a three-part answer in meeting the increasing unemployment rate: First, we must keep it low, for example: with changes to the permit rules. We must maintain the competence of the market, including: with increased use of intra-corporate training. And we have to build the bridges from oil and gas to more forward-looking green industries, for example. with grant schemes and acceleration programmes. In the census, repeated references were made to the Norwegian model. This algorithm is used by many people. But what the Norwegian model is, and what he's asking for, and what he's developing, isn't always as broad a consensus as that. It was e.g. said the following in the languages of the throne: ‘We have social partners who take social responsibility.’ I don't think a social democrat would have said that. In fact, we have partners in the world of work, and they take social responsibility, but the main thing about Norway is the cooperation between the parties, i.e. the tripartite cooperation. Cooperation is something other than pointing to someone and saying that they take social responsibility. It requires that the parties are given the space they need when new policies are developed. Their listening is, in practice, democracy. It's something that's created our egalitarian Norway. Here we separate layers with the government, both in rhetoric and in politics. After all, we have a government that doesn't listen when the parties take her to school and challenge her on e.g. what kind of an effect Sunday-open shops will have on our society. Everything from LO to NHO and Works, and several, has been very clear on what undesirable effects it might have. The Right Party and the Progress Party have created high expectations for their efforts to increase preparedness in Norway – perhaps especially through the 2013 election campaign, when they insisted that with them they would be able to take action. In the Common Era, the work for increased preparedness is described in high-ranking terms. But here's some of the results after two years in government: The National Police Emergency Response Centre is still undecided. Where will it be built? What time should it end? We have expectations that these clarifications will have to come at the latest in the 2016 budget. Then it's already two years in overtime. Earlier this year, the government also introduced a police reform that did not explain how national crises should be managed and managed. The Labour Party, together with the settlement party at Stortinget, had to negotiate a claim that this had to be resolved. The Gjørv Commission has recommended a scalable national operational centre that can come into force in the event of national crises in order to support local work. It's the Labour Party's agreement. But what does the government want? Finally, the world experiences the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War. The languages begin with this theme. But when responsibility is to be placed, the government in the throne emphasises that the foreign authorities, the voluntary community and the individual are making an invaluable effort. They do, and they reward it. But the government doesn't say anything about it is the municipalities. It is the most important single actor for newcomers to be able to start their new lives in Norway. It would be reasonable to expect. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has seen municipalities better able to deal with the situation, including: Three billion. kr more to the municipalities than the government provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1415	Recently, the representative Tajik has been concerned with the historical contribution of various parties to the development of the Norwegian welfare society. The welfare state is still evolving, but there is also a trend that can be reversed. On 26 March this year, the Working Party's working health spokesperson, Tove Karoline Knutsen, said: ‘We will reverse this law when we return to government.’ What she was talking about was free treatment. The Rusmis users' association is very satisfied with the reform and has referred to this statement as: ‘entirely disconnected from the perception of all actors in the drug field, and not least heartbroken towards users who have looked forward to choosing treatment more freely than before’. How does it fit into the Workers' Party's history that the party chooses to remove important rights for those who are struggling with intoxication and psychiatry by reversing free treatment options?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1432	I thank you for the question. In fact, the kind of freedoms that the representative here draws on are not always freedoms for everyone – that is, it sometimes turns out that there is a freedom for those who have the authority or resources to navigate in the possibilities that exist, but that it is not a freedom for everyone who needs this kind of provision. There's some reason why we're deeply critical of the rhetoric that's special to the Right, but also to the Progress Party, put on both this and a number of other things, where one calls it a freedom and a possibility, while the reality is that it's a freedom for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1438	It was interesting to hear representative Hadia Tajik talk about unemployment, because it's probably only later that can show how good you were, or how bad you were, so you might have to be careful to conclude already. I also feel that the representative is concerned about the lack of progress in the emergency centre. It says respect, and the Workers' Party will have a reward to push on. At the same time, it is interesting to look at the Workers' Party's own ambitions, for example, in the budget for the current year. in the case of bets on the development of Norwegian prisons, priority was given to the Workers' Party to do nothing. When it came to increasing Norwegian police and bets there, they gave priority to children’s homes – that’s why it says respect, that’s what you need to pay attention to – but you didn’t say what you shouldn’t prioritize as a consequence of another priority. Then my question becomes: In the light of what has just been said, what kind of ambitions does the Labour Party have for next year, when you see the criticism that the representative has given the government in different media?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1447	The working party's alternative budget will come when it comes. There, the details of our investments for 2016 will be clear. But we have shown, both in the previous budget and then in the government, that we are able to prioritise where the needs are. Under Stoltenberg II, we made 750 new settlements, we made sure of the funds to build Halden Prison, we increased the capacity, we gave the police money so that they could recruit newly-educated students, and we increase the capacity of the Police College. It is natural that we also in the budgets that we make sure that there are means both to follow this up and not least to follow up the need that is attached to the emergency centre and scalable operating centres. It was also the previous government that carried out the first rounds to establish a national, scalable operating centre. After all, there are things that you can see that this government has not built on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1452	The representative starts his post by talking about what model of society we want to build on. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have long been concerned that all good forces should be deployed in the voluntary and non-profit sector in Norway. Now we're going to have a legal and regulatory change in terms of public procurement. The Christian People's Party believes that it is essential that the rules be designed in a way that ensures non-profit organisations both good and predictable framework conditions. We're busy not only talking about the non-profit and voluntary sector, but also talking to. The most important thing is perhaps to facilitate. Can the representative confirm that the Workers' Party will also work for specific conditions and predictable framework conditions for ideal actors when we are now going to have a review of this whole area this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1466	Yes, I can confirm that. The Christian People's Party and the Labour Party are some that the non-profit sector is very important. We also see that they are being pushed into a number of supply processes, that it is difficult for them to compete with some things, for example. private and commercial operators existing within the same sector. Then it's important to specifically facilitate that the ideal actors, who make a very important offer, can really compete by having conditions that they can actually compete with.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1471	The representative was in his intervention occupied by some of those who have it most difficult in society, and some of them are affected by serious crime. In recent days, serious child abuse has been revealed – in the VG – on the web of children, where a newspaper is able to find the perpetrators, but the police obviously do not. We have just – again – had a terrible case in which a woman has been killed despite the fact that she has notified the police, and the police have not even questioned the person who was in charge of the threats. Unfortunately, this also ended in killing – again. There have been numerous issues in which the police claim to be completely wrong. The foreign affairs are another matter, where priority is given to bringing out the children of asylum rather than serious criminals. This is so serious that I would like to ask: is the Workers' Party interested in being with SV on a proposal where we instruct the government about another and better priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1476	I will see that proposal before I take a position on it. Even more than that, I think politicians at Stortinget should be detained in detailing individual issues in the police. I've said that I don't want to be a politician like that one day, in one field, says that the police must give priority to this, and the other day it says about another field. But I've said to this general rule there's one exception, and it's power against women and children, because there's a field where one sees that there's a need for strong figures, especially on behalf of the kids. When it comes to women's power, one sees that, through history, it has been a sub-priority area, that we need a political pressure to make it sufficiently serious, that one should not view it as just housewreck, but that one should regard it as gross and serious crime. There I have been clear in meeting the police and the police actors, saying that power against women and children should be given priority. We have also, when we are in government, given funds for, among other things. Kripos, established children's home, together with SV and SV's representatives, reinforced the penalties in this field, and we naturally want to take more initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1484	In the last year's debate, the government was clear that the threat to the Norwegian model is that it is not possible to change in time. However, there were not so many who from this pulpit made the need to create jobs a major theme in last year's debate. For a long time, the right has taken the challenge of a two-part business life seriously. For this reason, over several years, we have prioritised investing in lower taxes, knowledge, research, innovation and infrastructure to create jobs and to equip Norway for the future. Losing the job is perceived as dramatic. When jobs disappear, families go from safety to insecurity. It's hard for the kids too when mom or dad loses their job. Work, activity and conversion are the most important things we are doing now. Everyone should be able to have a job to go to. At the same time, we also need to ensure that our social security network works, so that it traps those who fall outside, those who have difficulties — not least children and young people. I'm glad we have a government that prioritises those who need the help of the great community the most. Whether you are mentally ill, addicted to alcohol, have children in the care of children, or if you are struggling with reading and writing difficulties or are newly found refugees, you need help and opportunity to stand on your own feet and create a good life. Over many years, major challenges have been faced in the transport sector without this being addressed. We're getting more and more, we've got a huge maintenance run on the way, it takes too much time to plan, and we're not building efficiently enough. But in a short time, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have clearly turned this development around. In 2015, we use almost 30 pst. more on transport than in 2013. The four batches have set up road companies, which will enable more projects to be implemented more quickly. We have launched public–private cooperation, which has contributed to more efficient infrastructure construction and maintenance, and we have established the Infrastructure Fund. This large-scale development of roads means that businesses around the country can transport their goods more efficiently. That also means that those who travel on the roads can travel safer. Large-scale road development and maintenance lead primarily to improved road safety. Large-scale projects on the road and track also provide activity in the construction industry. Both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency need engineers and skilled workers. In fact, this summer's Consulting Engineers Association could tell that their businesses saw for themselves to be able to employ 1,000 engineers – only towards the New Year. We have accelerated many major road projects. This will mean thousands of jobs around the country. I am proud of the historic effort that is now being made on infrastructure in our country. At the same time, I am a little over the Workers' Party's transport priorities – last but not least, in the revised national budget, where the Workers' Party spends 90 million. kr for new road projects. This will mean that we have to cancel weighing engineers, which means that we have to take more action. At the same time, they have presented an action package of 5.5 billion. NOK without a single crown intended for infrastructure maintenance. It's funny, especially when we know that spending on maintenance is one of the most targeted measures you can do in a short time to get people to work. Also on the railway side and on the collective side, the four cooperation parties together have been given a historic initiative. We've stopped the red-green decay on the way and path that we've seen for too many years. Now the country has all the opportunities to become the first oil economy to succeed in conversion. Norway has started a journey from specialty to conversion. Now work, activity and conversion are job number one.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1506	This is a story that I don't recognize. In the last ten years, we have had a significant rise in investment in infrastructure in this country, and as part of that promise, there has been a significant increase in road maintenance. The previous national transport plan included 20 pst. increase. In the current transport plan, which was presented by the red-green government, there were 30 pst. increase, and I hope that the current government will continue the increase in maintenance. It is pointed out that maintenance is a very central tool for keeping people in work, and one of the key instruments to which the government parties all along refer is the Infrastructure Fund, which the representative was also involved in their contributions. The question is when to benefit from this infrastructure fund – when to start collecting money? Then my question becomes: How much real returns have you received from the fund in 2015, and with how many dollars from that fund are you helping to recover back from maintenance this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1513	Now I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Sivertsen, who is head of the transport committee. I look forward to working with the representative, and I look forward to finding good solutions in the transport sector together. As far as the infrastructure fund is concerned, we have already granted 70 billion. And we've said that it's going to be up to 100 billion. kr. After two years we have also established an important tool for predictable maintenance on the road and track. We took over a huge red-green maintenance decay that we have now reversed. It is the first time in 10 years that we have reversed the maintenance kit. I am proud of that, and I believe that we are going to be able to reduce the great lag on important infrastructure in this country even in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1521	Last week, I experienced the presence of 440 refugees at Lampedusa, Sicilia, in Italy. When I stood there and looked, I thought about the importance of rescue work and emergency work. I also thought that help in the neighbourhoods must be the most important thing, and then I thought that the reception situation in Norway must be good. But then I stood up and considered: yes, those who are at war and terror have a need for protection, but it is clear that many come because they want a better life, and then they escape from conditions that are unworthy and difficult to experience. Then my question is to the Right: does the representative from the Right think it is unfortunate if targeted assistance funds are increasingly being re-prioritized to short-term and urgent action?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1528	I thank the Tuskedal representative for the question, and I am glad that the Christian People's Party is taking it up. The pictures and the stories that we are now seeing are touching us all very strongly. Norway will take its responsibility in the crisis, along with the rest of Europe, but there is also a need for cooperation across continents. We're going to do what we can in the neighbourhoods. Then we're going to make sure that we also have a good reception apparatus here, not least by volunteering, and I'm sure that with the beating heart of the Christian People's Party for volunteering in Norway, we're going to contribute together to the best possible reception of those who come here and get well integrated into school, work and sports and get to live good lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1535	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1538	We've been through an election campaign where one of the topics on the agenda was care of the elderly, and what it takes to ensure that all the elderly are a worthy, warm and safe care for the elderly. There is then something special to record that Jonas Gahr Støre in his post today only chose to mention the care of the elderly once in a summary of many other areas for which the municipality is responsible. I am surprised that one of the areas in which the Workers' Party spent so much time in the election campaign is only mentioned in one word. This is also particularly true when we know that the Workers' Party would visit over a hundred nursing homes and elderly centres and hold so-called consultation meetings to help us understand how to improve and secure good services for the elderly. As the representative Gahr Støre probably remembers, he was in the election campaign, among other things. in the Borgehaven Residence and Rehabilitation Centre on its birthday. Then I ventured into a little walk to hear and to get some idea of what the elderly there were busy about. Then it's a little strange that Gahr Støre in his post does not say anything about what the Workers' Party has got from recordings, or how they are going to expand the care of the elderly. But the natural explanation that this important area is mentioned in one single word only once in his post is simple: it is actually a good proof and a clear response from the Workers' Party that they are only concerned with the care of the elderly four weeks every two years in connection with the election campaign. I think this is sad for all the older people who need help, and who believe in the politicians who are travelling around in the election campaign and promise that this will be reflected in the care of the elderly. The Labour Party has not only governed the country for eight of the last ten years, no, they have governed the country and the care of the elderly for much of the post-war period. I have registered that the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, within the care of the elderly, does not use his well-known phrase: too little and too late. This is due to the fact that the Workers ’ Party is still being reminded that they have promised 10,000 new people in the care professions on their guard. It then turned to 10,000 new hands, and so the promise was reduced to half. In addition, 12,000 new health places/holiday care places were promised – another area where the promise was changed from new, fresh places to new and rehabilitated places. The result was housed 567 new, fresh hospital places or spaces with a good day's care. I am therefore pleased that the government, where the Progress Party is involved, is using more tools to ensure that all older people who need care should receive help. We have increased the grants for the construction of new 15 pst places, which has resulted in far more municipalities applying for and receiving grants to expand new places at a much higher rate than the previous government promised. This will in future mean that far more elderly people will receive safe, warm, and dignified care for the elderly. This is because the Progress Party is being implemented in order to increase the appropriations for the care of the elderly. The government has also indicated that it will launch a pilot scheme with State full funding of the care of the elderly. I really look forward to this, even though both the Advance Party and I would like to have rolled this out across the country. But now we get to test it out. I am sure that this will prove to be the best way to ensure that all older people who need care and care will get it, regardless of whether the municipality is rich or poor. The fact that the Workers' Party does not agree with this is very strange, when they would like to appear as a party concerned that your wallet will not decide the offer you are given. But after seeing the Labour Party exhibition window, Trondheim, I am no longer as sure, because there you actually have to pay to get out in the fresh air.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1553	I have to say that I am looking forward to the budget on Wednesday, when we get such a warm speech for the elderly. It is important for the Christian People's Party to facilitate people to live and live in both the city and the country. The centralizing forces are strong, and therefore the Christian People's Party is engaged in an active policy of creating good activity in District Norway. People make their own choices about where they want to live. But we have to provide good services and opportunities for action, so that people can both live and work in smaller places — yes, they have a real choice to live in the districts. Being close to services is important. The basis for everyone is that we have to know security where we live, the security of the whole human being when life is vulnerable, that it's good preparedness, and that there's someone who can help us when we need it. Active district policy involves a great deal, including: is a good health offer absolutely essential. The size of the population will soon address the national health and hospital plan. This will be an important work, and it must be felt to provide better input to the districts, more than to deprive them of competence and offer. Emergency preparedness and prehospital services provide an important basis and a basis for the hospital structure in our long-term country. It is absolutely essential that serious sick or injured people get the help they need when they need it — often as quickly as possible. We need to tailor a preparedness and a health and hospital system to the situation in which our country is – as diverse and diverse – with the natural challenges we have. If we are to succeed in a health and hospital plan, the basement, the ground wall, in Hospital-Norway, must consist of adequately developed emergency preparedness and prehospital services. There are several security holes on standby today. We have a call-out time for fire and police, but not for health. It wants Christian People's Party to work to get in place, not for hospitals or ambulances, but for patients. In order to ensure good preparedness, the Christian People's Party national meeting went in to ensure a good and safe hospital service for all, through decentralised services such as hospitals, district medical centres and quality local hospitals, in particular in emergency and food services. Norwegian health authorities have opened up the possibility of more emergency surgery in future in centralised hospitals in order to ensure sufficient quality. The paradox is that the Health Directorate says that there is currently no research to confirm that this is the way to go. The Christian People's Party is concerned that just local hospitals have great benefits — they are close to patients and have local knowledge. Local hospitals shall be of high quality in their services. Just proximity and local knowledge enhance the quality of services and are a quality indicator in itself. It may seem that this does not count as much as other quality objectives and requirements — as the number of patients, how many can be treated and what different specialities are available at any time in Norwegian hospitals. It is not quality to be in the back of a sick car for several hours on smooth roads. It is not quality to lie in an air ambulance that can neither facilitate nor land. It is not quality to reach hospitals when you are seriously ill. This is not quality for the ones involved. It's about sewing a health system that's actually there when patients need it. The Christian People's Party believes that local hospitals need to be developed. A national health and hospital plan must clearly define the nature of a local hospital. This must be investigated and quality assured. We need to provide good and equivalent healthcare throughout the country. If we are to succeed, we must work for this, work together to ensure a service that lasts over time – with a broad settlement in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1570	There are many policy areas where the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party stand together. But there is one area where I have problems recognizing the Christian People's Party, and it is their support to the government that people convicted under Norwegian law should be able to zone abroad against their own wishes. I have trouble seeing how recruiting prisoners with coercion, reporting on strong psychological reactions and attempted suicides, and that prisoners who were going to go to open settlement, are now being forced into closed settlement abroad, belong together with the Christian People's Party's values. Temporary duplication would have been a better response, while we could use millions from the Netherlands to expand prison capacity here in Norway. It turns out that prison capacity has changed. Today we have 242 vacancies in Norway, in addition to the 128 places not yet filled in the Netherlands. The question is, how does this policy correspond to the values of the Christian People's Party? Are you willing to look at the matter again and possibly reverse this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1577	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that each person takes responsibility for his life. Also when they have done things that are not like they should, which is right, they have the responsibility to settle. One way to settle is to take responsibility for what you're convicted of, and be put in prison. Then we've had a lag on the capacity here in the country. Many people have a desire to be allowed to settle and start over. The vacant capacity that the representative describes is important for us to use before we send people out – that's what the Christian People's Party fully agrees with. But there are many more who are waiting to be allowed to zone and start a new life, either in this country or by being sent out to those with whom we have an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1584	The representative of Bollestad used a good deal of space on a national health and hospital plan in his article. There will be an important matter in Stortinget, and the Left and Christian People's Party share much of the value base there. However, an important part of the hospital service, located between municipalities, primary health services and hospitals, is the medical services. Today there are 192. They are very differently organised, and many of them are in large intercommunal cooperation, up to 12-14 municipalities, and there are large distances. It's the only emergency unit without its own car service, without its own uniform. It's partially characterized by some temporary doctors with no particular knowledge of District Norway. What is the Christian People’s Party’s view of this important part of the emergency service?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1591	The Law Department is one of our hottest areas where you meet people when they're sick. It requires a high level of competence and quality, not least locality knowledge of culture and of distances and nature. That's why the Christian People's Party is concerned with looking at the medical guards, looking at what knowledge should be there, what kind of competence should be there, and whether there should be demands for a certain size or one. Because we think in some places the distances are so large that it can't just go on the number of people, we also have to look at the context in which the doctor is in. It can't just be the number of people, it also has to be the distance. So we'd like to join the medical team and look at who's going to work there, and the quality of those who're going to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1599	The people say yes to the community reform, it was the enthusiastic message we could read from four of my committee colleagues in the newspapers last week. Representatives from the government alliance here at Stortinget, Frank J. Jensen, Helge André Njåstad, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and André N. Skjelstad, tell of polls showing that the population, local politicians, councillors and rapporteurs will have fewer and larger municipalities. Not a word does not sacrifice the four combat comrades in the blue alliance on the referendum on the municipal reform carried out in 14 municipalities in connection with the municipal elections. There were yes-multiple numbers in one municipality, no-multiple numbers to twelve and a draw in one. Not one concern applies to the four following the fact that more and more municipalities say they will not go ahead with the community reform work. This applies, inter alia, to: Lørenskog and Rælingen in Akershus, as the State Council Sanner pointed out as an example that today's municipal structure was being laid down. Aremark, Trøgstad, Grimstad, Osen, Randaberg etc. I have said no to continue investigating the merger. We have heard the same thing from the Right-steered municipality of Bø in the Vesterålen. Municipal Report's overview of progress in the municipal reform shows slow progress. 334 municipalities are early in the investigation phase and lack enthusiasm for the reform. Heidi Greni and the Centerpartie centrally oppose the municipal reform, the four start their debate. Yes, it is true that the Central Party is countering the government's coercive and centralisation reform. The centre party wants a reform that provides better services to the people. It does not achieve it by laying down the municipalities that provide the best services. The centre party is in favour of inter-municipal cooperation. The state councils are once again talking down on inter-municipal cooperation today. Is there any sense in the fact that the Trondelag municipalities, for example: will terminate intermunicipal cooperation that we share in archive services for 40 municipalities, create 40 new bureaucracy and services or 10 or 20, depending on how many municipalities it became. The centre party is pleased that both through the election results and through the local debates that are now taking place in the municipalities, we are supported by our opposition to the weakening of local government and the centralisation of the country, as the government's municipal reform proposes. The local reform can have a major impact on the housing pattern if the government gets what it wants. The representatives of the government fraction do not want to talk about this, but experience both from Denmark and from previous mergers here at home clearly shows that the community merger affects the housing pattern in the municipalities. Denmark, which recently reduced the number of municipalities to 98, experiences a centralisation wave that creates strong reactions. 300 to 400 schools are closed, 1 000 library branches are gone, and 900 kindergartens. The result has been cut in the number of teachers and kindergarten staff, while local authorities have been screened for cutbacks. In this country, Proba’s social analysis provided an evaluation of the 39 municipalities that have carried out aggregation since 1988. It turns out that the smallest municipalities that have lost the town hall have had a population decline, those who have kept it, have had a population increase, i.e. a local centralisation. This is the only report that has evaluated effects in all merged municipalities in the last decades. The municipal minister, who was the recipient of the report, has shown little interest in passing on what it tells us. The many studies on the municipal reform presented by the government have failed to address the impact on housing structure, industrial policy and people’s access to public services, regardless of where they live. Perhaps not so strange, as district policy objectives are quite absent from the government's political platform. It is difficult to understand that the Left and Christian People's Party have accepted support for a reform scheme in which the importance of the municipalities for settlement throughout the country is absent both in the mention of the government platform and in the mandate given to the so-called expert committee that investigated the municipal reform. That's why the Center Party is against the city reform. We are not opposed to reforms in the municipal sector, but the reforms need to strengthen local democracy, provide better services to the inhabitants and strengthen the possibilities of using the whole country. Unfortunately, this is not the government's ambition with the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1619	The climate summit in Paris is approaching, and one thing is clear: an agreement is important and correct, but an agreement will in any case not be good enough for the world to reach its target of a maximum of 2 degree heating. It is the total effort of all countries that will mean something, and, according to Climate Action Tracker, an organisation that four research institutes are behind, assumes that global warming is only limited to 2.7 degrees in the world, respecting the promises that have been made so far – and it is all the promises that have been made so far. History has often shown that, unfortunately, such promises are rarely fully implemented. It's unnecessary to say that this is very serious. If we follow today's policy, the warming in the year 2100 is going to be 3.6 degrees, with the consequences that it brings. At the same time, Norway shall join the EU Climate Framework to ensure 40 pst. reductions in greenhouse gases up to 2030 both through the European ETS and through reductions in emissions in the non-quota sector. This will ensure reduced emissions, roadside control stations and a level playing field for Norwegian business compared to European competitors. But the left is worried that the government won't take the step completely out. Even if we join one of the EU's 40 pst climate pillars. reduction, the government continues to show no willingness to join the EU’s three other pillars, which are more renewable energy, more energy efficiency and perhaps most important for Norway, the EU’s infrastructure work – a work aimed at much better energy exchange between countries and regions. If Norway is on the outside of this work, it is difficult to understand, all the time a good result in this area is good for the climate, good for Norway and good for Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry. Although we are not a member of the EU, we have great opportunities to participate in this cooperation as well. Regardless of this, it is clear that Norway needs to undergo a huge transformation in the years ahead. Some of this is due to low oil prices, which we probably have to get used to, especially if climate policy succeeds, and some of it as a result of the change that must take place in the light of climate change and the measures to limit it. These are important measures, perhaps especially in Norway in the transport sector. We're going to achieve our goal of 40 pst. by 2030, much needs to be done in the transport sector. In its report earlier this summer, the Environment Directorate showed that we need to achieve the target, with nearly 100 pst. new car sales in 10 years are zero emissions and heavy transport must be fossil-free by 2030. In maritime industries, we have great opportunities to have an innovation. It is good for Norwegian business where we must have a change of pace. The elves are just the first step here. Conversion to Norwegian industry and business, Enova and the Eco-Technology Scheme and other schemes are important instruments. We really need a big and real green tax shift and continue what we've started in the budgets before, and we have to make it easier for people most to make environmentally friendly choices in everyday life. It is important to believe that what you do as an individual has a real effect, and that we have with us both individuals, industry, organisations and local authorities in the transition that the country has to undergo. Another important objective for Norway and the world is to stop biodiversity loss by 2020. This task is as important as halting climate change. Nature gives us products like food, medicines and fuels and the ecosystem provides services like clean water, CO2 binding, pollination and damping of floods. We like to take these services as a matter of course, but they are vital to life on earth, and they have enormous value. Intact nature with a rich diversity is, in short, the best life insurance we can give ourselves and our descendants. Researchers from the UN Environment Programme – UNEP – estimate that we share the earth with about 100 million other species. But diversity disappears quickly. The UN Environment Programme has estimated that between 150 and 200 species disappear worldwide every day — up to a thousand times faster than before. Only in Norway are 2 400 species on the Norwegian red list and thus threatened. Researchers also estimate that 60 pst. earth's ecosystems have been destroyed only in the last 50 years. This collapse of the world's delicate ecosystems is one of our greatest environmental problems and must be taken seriously. We need a completely different level of knowledge. We have to stop devastating projects like mining mud in fjords, and we need a boost in the next year's budget to preserve Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1644	I want to thank Ola Elvestuen for a good contribution and for spending a lot of his speaking time talking about nature protection. Nature conservation is often something that drowns in the climate debate, and I think he very well argued why it is important to also bet on nature protection. Nature is not being reduced by a single measure; it is the sum of quite a few small measures that put nature under pressure. Now we have a government that has been sitting for two years. This summer the judgment came from the environmental organisations. On 23 points, all the major environmental organisations said that this government was in a position to act. The response from the government parties here at Stortinget was that they should cut support for environmental organisations because they were obviously a little late and slow. My question to Ola Elvestuen is whether he agrees that the total effort of the government in the field of nature protection is under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1653	Now it's not just the government. The representatives of the Workers' Party have also been involved in what has to do with lead hail, what has to do with snow shooting, and also what to do with mining in Førdefjorden, so there are several parties that are behind a broad majority. What is important for the Left, and as I also mentioned at the end, is that we have to use the budget to get a promise to take care of Norwegian nature. We need far more knowledge than what we have today. We need to follow up on the Water Directive, and we need to follow up on action plans for endangered species – we need to work in areas by area to get it done. We have good cooperation with the government on climate action. There has been a rapid change in the last two years, with many different measures to be continued in the budget now. In the case of classical nature protection, we need to get a promise to do that, not only in terms of what is happening now, but also in order to correct the deficiencies from previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1667	There are many challenges, but I will mention the three greatest in our time. One is the climate crisis and the environmental crisis that Elvesuen of the Left was talking about, and I share all the concerns he has. The second major challenge we have is increased economic differences, which we know are ruining people's lives, but which also destroy productivity and economic progress, both for individuals and for society. The latter is the need for peace and tolerance between countries and between people. There we see the great challenges we have in the world now, with the greatest refugee disaster since World War II and also the challenges we face these people who have to flee need to find a new home. Unfortunately, the main effort of the government, namely the tax cuts to the most wealthy, the richest and the inheritors, is not going to solve any of these problems. It's not even close to touching the solution of any of them — on the contrary, they contribute negatively. I'll talk more about the last one. The refugee crisis is very serious. Could the challenges we have been faced be foreseen? Yes, you didn't have to be a very big fortune-teller to realize that the challenges also at the borders of Norway and the reception of refugees and asylum seekers in this country would increase quite dramatically over the summer and autumn. Therefore, the government's management of this has been put to a halt. And I'm pretty tired of a debate in which we talk about our problems and talk about the refugees as if they were problems. They're people in crisis. These are people who have problems that are bigger than what I think most of us sitting in this room, have ever faced, and I hope we don't have to. We have to talk about this as the real thing is, and the government has been too late in handling this. I would just like to remind you that last year, the Swedish Government made proposals in the UK that we should take initiatives in Europe for a better sharing of responsibilities between the countries on the flow of refugees that we saw. No one wanted to be on it then. Now everyone sees that it's necessary. I think it is also worth noting that the ministers responsible for this area, who are first in the throne, are not present. Here is not the Minister of Justice Anundsen, who is responsible for this being handled too late and with many critical points. Here is not the Minister for Integration, Solvency Horne, who has taken some positive initiatives. That's what I think she should be praised for. But she is facing a formidable task when her party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen, who is also not present today, has arranged to boycott the settlement work of the municipalities in the greatest refugee disaster we have after World War II. If you're going to interpret this, maybe I'm going to interpret it so that from now on, it's the Prime Minister who's taken care of this. I really hope so, because if we leave refugee and asylum policy to the Progress Party, it is not in safe hands, we know that. SV has today made proposals for a new settlement scheme. We do that because we've had this housing arrangement now, for over 20 years. It doesn't solve the problems, and then you have to think about it again. We sent a proposal on this when we were in the government. It is assumed that housing work, like other work in the municipality, is a running task the municipalities must have. Last week I received a message from IMDI in North Norway, where it turns out that they do not have enough staff to guide the municipalities that have now agreed to settle refugees, but have not done so before. They have no competence, and they must be followed up by state authorities. If you put in place a system in which the municipalities keep doing this, they will also have competence and knowledge of how to do this, as a running task as other tasks are. Fast settlement is good integration. Now many are waiting to come to an asylum interview up to a year and some more. Others have been on asylum reception for several years. Everyone knows that people get sick by this. It prevents integration. It's bad housing policy. The fact that people who live in Norway can live in a municipality is freedom and not coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1693	I would like to draw attention to Andersen's proposal from today's Class struggle on the introduction of forced residence of refugees, as opposed to today's voluntary scheme for municipalities. I assume that it is the same representative proposal that was promoted at the start of today's meeting. After the government change in 2013, the number of people who have settled in a municipality has increased sharply. Only from last year to this year have there been 25 psts. more. The average waiting time in reception is now 7.5 months. For lone minors, the average time is 2.7 months. This is something above the stated objective. There is something that has been achieved with different types of instruments, but still with voluntary action at the bottom of the municipalities. Does the representative of Andersen agree that this demonstrates that there is a significant need to combine increased housing in municipalities and volunteering, and does the representative Andersen agree that volunteering for municipalities gives certain benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1700	We've had that system for years. We also had it when SV put in government, so we tried it, and you wanted to get it done. It is quite true that there are some more people living now, but if we look at the numbers of arrivals now, we see that the need will be far above that. The number of people living in reception has not been reduced. It's stable because it keeps coming more. Then there's a need to think again that people have to get their lives started – because what I think you're skipping very easily when you're discussing this is the heavy damage of being passive on reception. The SV’s proposal is that this should be shared between municipalities, that one can negotiate – as one does in Denmark – but that there is a permanent ongoing task as other tasks, and that the municipalities should receive full cost coverage for the costs they have for the settlement. Then I'm pretty sure integration will go much better, because then people haven't been able to sit on reception for years and get sick of it. It's very harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1707	It was not expected that Andersen's representative would talk about the refugee situation and settlement in his article. She has a great commitment, as we noted, and I also felt that she might be a little angry with the post. It went out over my party, the Progress Party, at more locations. I thought she could have had a slightly different use of words than saying that the country is not in safe hands with two government councils from the Progress Party who are responsible for this policy area, especially when we know what the situation was for the State Council, Solvency Horne when she joined. She then inherited a challenge from the previous government with over 5,000 people who were in reception with approved residence in Norway, but who had not got a municipality to busge in. Then it's strange that the rhetoric is as hard as he is, and it's also a little strange that a producer of the Progress Party as part of the challenge when the situation was like that when Solvency Horne joined. So she did one thing that the previous government didn't do, that she turned to all the Norwegian municipalities with a call that they had to bust. My question is, why didn't SV do it when they were in government, and turn to all the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1712	It is no wonder that questions are asked at the Progress Party when the leader of the Progress Party in the election campaign went out with a call to local Progress Party municipal government representatives to boycott the virtues to which the Secretary of State Solvency Horne invites the Advance Party's settlement minister. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. What has been the main message of the Progress Party in these matters has certainly been quite clear. The SV submitted proposals for a new settlement scheme and sent it to the hearing when we were in government. That is what we are promoting again, precisely because we saw that what we are doing is not keeping track of it. People stay in reception for too long, and the system we have doesn't work fast enough, and we know that people get problems with integration when they sit on reception for years. So we saw that problem was there, and we have, on the contrary, given Solvency Horne credit for the individual measures she has done, but the problem here is the policies of the Progress Party and not those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1718	SV has had a major focus today on climate, unemployment and now also on refugees, which I think are important issues in the time we are in. I am sure that questions about refugees and unemployment will mark the harvest. I want to challenge SV, because a little bit of the challenge of increasing unemployment is that many of those who lose their jobs are in an industry like SV, and in part also the Christian People's Party, have been concerned about turning in a more environmentally friendly direction. Thinking about the climate perspective and how to meet the challenges of working life means that many people simply have to change jobs, out of one sector and over into another. Some of the solutions that are being brought up are, for example: to amend the legislation on permitting. In the census, good words were used that one must be careful not to lock up labour in sectors that can be harmful in the long term, both from a climate perspective and because they may not necessarily be profitable in the long term. What is the answer to SV to ensure that one can convert in a climate-friendly direction, and that one does not increase unemployment when one, for example. Does Johan Sverdrup vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1730	There's a lot of answers to that. You have to make demands. You can't keep leaning in the oil sector like you've done now. You have to dry to say no to new investments. At the same time, we must look at the regulatory framework as for example. Nav has for how to assist people who have to enter into such a conversion. There is a need to facilitate the creation of green jobs, with funds for both research and development and conversion. In a previous line change here today, I arranged for the municipalities to operate this green shift. There is also a need for engineers and competent people, and one of the proposals put forward by SV is that we must demand that municipalities have such competence. There is no requirement for today, and they have to have it, both because of climate change, i.e. because of climate responsibility, and also because of all the climate adaptations that municipalities have to enter now because extreme weather makes it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1738	Many experience increased unemployment and insecurity is created for those affected. I've even been around for the last year and I've visited many people who have a lump in their stomachs, many who get up in the morning, get up in the bathroom – to get ready and go to work – and look in the mirror and wonder: am I the next one to be cancelled, or the next one to be released? This applies to both young and good adults. I've also seen people of my father's age who have experienced that insecurity, with a tear in the eye hook, and who wonder, what will it be like if I lose my job now? Do I have the opportunity to come back? Do I have the opportunity to get back into work? Or do I become, as the Evening Post wrote this weekend, one of those who gets pushed over into the disability? Therefore, one of the most important initiatives of the Right Party government is to create a policy that leads to work, activity and change. This is why, earlier this year, we launched a youth package that means more targeted responses to youth, more intervention sites – 1 000 pieces. We increased the apprentice grant for the fourth time, to make it more attractive for companies to accept apprentices, and we create 350 new places of study. We launched a new training measure for those young people who are unskilled — they can get two years to get the professional skills needed to make it easier to get back into the labour market. These are concrete measures. Then we see from the unemployment figures that were presented on Friday, that the industry that has the highest unemployment rate is the construction industry. It is then important to focus on maintenance and on development and investment. That is why it is disappointing to note that the Labour Party parliamentary leader and party leader earlier in the debate today does not mention maintenance and investment in a single word. Our government, the Right Party government, believes that it makes sense to step up investment in infrastructure. It makes sense, now that the country is in that situation, to use the space of action to maintain buildings in the health sector, within the school community, universities, just to keep the activity up, to avoid people becoming unemployed. One of the worst challenges we can face is that people are going into passivity over time. Therefore, activity is important in maintaining employment, in order to enable people to be in a working situation. It's also important to make the transition. This government is putting massive emphasis on research, is putting massive emphasis on energy renewal, precisely because this is not about what we're going to live off after oil, but what we're going to live off with oil in the future. And how are we going to create the new exciting, good, competitive jobs? It's a situation that the government takes in the deepest seriousness. It has also been said that we do not listen to the social partners. I'm very busy listening to the social partners, and we've listened. That's why we had a meeting back a short time ago where we discussed company internal training – and it took a week after we sat down with the parties – where the parties, LO, NHO, outlined three things: what would make sense also in terms of transition is to increase company internal training from 13 to 26 weeks, it's to make the system more familiar, and it's to steer the funds more into the areas of unemployment. One week afterwards, the Right-Fremskritsparte government shows the action force. We're changing the regulation so we're increasing from 13 to 26 weeks, we're making the system more familiar with the social partners, and we're also ready to align it with the areas of highest unemployment. This government has also listened in terms of leave. In the revised national budget, we improved the rules of leave. We have also made sure that those who are on leave and have started education before the leave are allowed to continue their education without losing their daily allowance. This government listens to the parties. In this way, we will succeed in work, activity and conversion, secure new jobs, secure jobs and maintain high employment and low unemployment in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1760	The Council of State just said that the government had listened to the social partners when it came to the legislation on permitting. Thus, they did not do so in the autumn of 2013, not revised in 2014 nor in the state budget in the autumn of 2014, the State budget for 2015. But it is good that the government has finally allowed itself to go back to a law on permitting that was in force before the government took over. So there's no more bet than that. But then, in the meantime, unemployment has risen to historical heights. It's been 20 years since the last time we had such high unemployment. At the beginning of the meeting today, our parliamentary leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, presented a document 8 proposal on behalf of more people, which means that we are now using some of the instruments that we have seen in the past, namely a law of leave of 52 weeks and with five days' self-payment for businesses. My question is: will the Council recommend to its grubbing-up group to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1767	Firstly, it only shows that the Right-Fremskritspart-government assesses the situation of unemployment on an ongoing basis and has also made changes to the law on permitting when necessary. Then I have to be allowed to say – and I think Andersen and I can agree – that even if you go further, you will not be less free. This government believes that it is much more important to start the activity, start the transition, provide more maintenance, so that those who work in the construction industry have something to do and the activity is kept up, that those who work in the road sector have something to do, so that the activity is kept up. It will be a much better tool to keep people in work rather than going as far as possible on leave. Measures to which this government is committed are to get people to work as quickly as possible — therefore targeted measures. I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party itself has not been able to make more money towards maintenance and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1776	There is no disagreement about creating activity in a situation of low activity. That's exactly what the government has been criticized for not doing, and we've been asking for a long time. But now, my question was the law on permitting. Both employers and employees have said that with today’s unemployment situation it does not seem that the government has reverted to the legislation in force for a low period of leave until the government took over. Now the situation is special. Well, it is better to go on leave and have a relationship with your employer than to be completely unemployed. It is an instrument that is already known, it is an instrument that we know works, especially in combination with the possibility of further and further training, and it is a law that the parties are calling for. My question, then, is this: will the Council recommend to its big group to support our proposal to adopt a legislation on permitting during a high period of leave that we have seen in the past worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1783	This government is concerned, as I said in my previous reply, with following the labour market situation, adapting the rules of leave to the actual situation. That's what the Right Party government does. Then we are also concerned that we should not create locking mechanisms. We have to remember that there are eight counties that now have a decline in unemployment. Then it is important that we ensure that the available labour force can be used where we need more labour, rather than being locked up and walking on daily allowances as far as possible. Work, activity, is much better than going as far as possible permitted. And as I said in my previous answer, since we went on two years ago, the government has shown that we are following developments closely and adapting the rules of leave to the actual conditions of the labour market. I do not expect the representative Andersen to believe that people should go out of work and be tied up in a company, when someone can get another job in another company elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1792	I would like to thank you for a very good post. We are many who are excited about the budget, which is coming quickly. That's why I understand that some of the answers today are becoming a bit cryptic. Nevertheless, it is important to challenge the Council of State on a special challenge that we also get with increased unemployment. This applies to people with reduced working capacity, who are far from working life. When there are more unemployed, the challenge is even greater, because they compete with people who are probably closer to work than they do themselves. As the Council of State said, the situation is that about half of the counties have a decline in unemployment, but the rest have an increase — some have a very large increase. How will the Council of State both target the measures so that when the most needed states, and also ensure that the people with disabilities, who are now far from working life and are at risk of getting even further away from work, get more help to be able to be included in working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1800	First, I would like to thank you for a very good question. Let me boast of the cooperation we have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which has also provided new tools in the toolbox, with a new and better pay subsidy scheme, which will come into force from 2016, a new and better follow-up agreement, more action places, which will make long-term unemployed young people and immigrants easier to gain skills and get into the labour market, and that we will have a new training measure. Then Nav is fully aware of – because they follow the situation very closely – how unemployment develops around the country, and is also prepared to use these tools, these tools, towards the areas where it is most needed. In addition, I have already sent out a letter inviting the eight largest chains in Norway to join a joint work force to get more of the young people who are out of work into working life. That meeting is most likely to take place on 15 October. It is at least when they are invited to attend such a meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1809	Minister of Labour Eriksson has one of the most difficult Urias posts in the government, and it does not say so little: the responsibility for both full employment where people can live from their work, and the responsibility for facilitating income-bearing work for people with partial working skills. This will become increasingly difficult in the future. The combination of economic liberalism with the free movement of workers across borders leads to increasing insecurity in the labour market and to the confusion of our model. After all, the national State must have the necessary means to ensure safety in the labour market. There is a significant reason why we need to get out of the EEA Agreement. But my question goes to the many people who have partial ability to work. In a debate on 7 April this year, the Council of State promised that new instruments would be put in place with sustainable wage subsidies, up to 75 p.m. Nav hasn't seen them. How many are positively affected by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1816	To answer the specific question that Lundteigen raises: I think Nav has seen them, because the Stortingen made these decisions in March this year, with effect from 1 January 2016. Then we'll get back to it in the budget in terms of scope, and that budget will be provided in two days' time. However, the new wage subsidies schemes – that those at risk of permanent disability benefit can in reality receive wage subsidies of up to 75 p.m. until retirement – will be introduced and enter into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1821	There are a lot of people who lose their jobs, and we're going to get them back to work. But some of them should also be able to create their own jobs and jobs. It's important for our economy, it's important for innovation, and it's important to create the entrepreneurial culture we all want. One challenge for many of them is that when they are going to make the choice between being employees, being added, and creating their own job, there are quite different rights involved. For many, a loss of self-employment may occur. For example, self-employed people often pay more in taxes, such as: because they do not have the right to a minimum deduction. They don't have the same good deduction schemes for pension savings, they don't have the same entitlement to sick pay, etc. My question is simply: if the Council of State agrees that it should be easier to create their own job, not just to find a new one, how will the government improve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1830	This government is concerned that we should facilitate innovation, for entrepreneurs. I am quite united with the representative Rotevatn in that it is too few today who might dare to get rid of themselves completely and start new business, start up and be creative and innovative. We need more of them. Therefore, without going into it specifically, I know that my good colleague, the Minister of Industry, is in the process and will, during the autumn, present a separate case and a separate business plan to motivate more entrepreneurs to create their own jobs. I myself have been out there looking at a fantastic offer you have among young entrepreneurs in Stavanger – with crazy good bud shooting. The government wants to facilitate these environments so that more entrepreneurs see today's light and more dare to bet and create new jobs for new people, but also their own jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1835	The Minister of Labour expressed great concern at the increase in unemployment. That's a concern SV share. The situation for young people is particularly serious. We know that youth is in a special position, that you are particularly vulnerable to being the first to go and the last to get new offers. You don't have the same knowledge of your rights or the same network that you have when you've been in a long working life. That is why it is positive that the government has finally brought a youth package. Although it is late, it is important that there is something more than moralising that young people have to get up in the morning and meet up with demands – when they are left unsolicited. One of the seven measures in the Youth Package is to review the Youth Guarantee Facility. I would like to recall the SV's proposal for a strengthened Youth Guarantee to guarantee the right to work, activity or education within three months. My question is: will the Council guarantee a strengthened youth guarantee in the review of the Youth Guarantee Facility?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1842	First, I am very concerned not to do as my predecessors in the red-green government, to come with guarantees that were not worth the paper they were written on. I'm concerned with showing action, showing that we're able to do things politically quickly and efficiently to get the activity up, which is what the youth package we've launched will do. Last year we have increased the effort in action places to the ordinary unemployed by 50 pst. It's been on, as we see now, to curb and slow down the increase in youth unemployment. So the grips this government has already taken prove to be working. The grips we have launched will also work in the future. I have good faith in that precisely with the experience we have of the measures we have already taken, which have worked as well as they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1847	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1850	No government has ever taken over a Norway with a more solid economy than the Right Party and the Progress Party could do two years ago. There was a solid surplus on the state budget and a solid surplus on trade with the rest of the world. The real wages and purchasing power of the Nordics were greatly improved. Businesses profited, and – most importantly – unemployment was low, we had the whole people at work. Through the toughest setback in Europe since the Second World War, the red-green government had guided Norway with a vision of having Europe's lowest unemployment, and we were able to do so. One of the reasons was the enormous innovation and conversion power of Norwegian society. Under red-green governance, the number of jobs in Norway increased by 360 000, two out of three in the private sector. Behind that number were also hundreds of thousands of other jobs, which were transformed or replaced with new ones. The Economist called the Nordic model "The New Supermodel". Strong social organisations, good dismissal protection, broad public welfare systems, small differences and an active state enterprise policy proved to be good both for individuals and for the economy and for growth. The ability to change and innovation in Norway was at its strongest. However, the parties that took over in 2013 did not share the belief in the Norwegian model. On the contrary, we got a finance minister who thought that the Norwegian model was in the way of individuals. The model had to be changed and rebuilt. The policy of the new government was based on this view: the weakening of cooperation with the social organisations, the weakening of the protection against dismissal and the work environment law, tight budgets and lifting breaks in knowledge, care for the elderly and health, tax cuts for the wealthiest, proposals for the sale of public enterprises and a passive industrial policy. Too many voters came as a surprise. When they had voted for so-called new ideas and better solutions, they did not know that it meant taking the sick pay from those who had the lowest wages, taking the car support from the disabled, taking the child supplement from the disabled or taking the cultural walker stick from the elderly, or that half of the tax cuts would go to the 5 pst. richest – hundreds of thousands of millions, 50 cents a day for ordinary people without wealth. And why? Because it's neither new ideas nor better solutions. These are old ideas. For more than 30 years, the right-hand side throughout the Western world has had the same recipe: tax cuts, sales of state property, privatisation of welfare services. Now the main problem is not that these are old solutions, the main problem is that they don't work. The advertisement was that yes, there were greater differences, the rich became richer, but this was to grow older all over the economy, so that everyone got it better in the long run. But it did not, unless ‘on sight’ goes beyond a 30-40 year perspective. In Norway, the 1980s experiment ended in one of the worst national economic crises, in which the governments of Gro Harlem Brundtland had to clean up in the 1980s and 1990s. In the period of right-wing government from 2001 to 2005, we lost tens of thousands of industrial jobs and had a record low job growth. So with the right in government again, we get the highest unemployment rate of 22 years. It is not the responsibility of the Right and Advance Party that the oil price has fallen," says Erna Solberg. No, just as it was the Workers' Party's responsibility that the greed on Wall Street gave us a global financial crisis. But the policy taken to meet the crisis is always the responsibility of the government. And the results of the policy are the government's responsibility. Every government must be judged on the results it produces at the end of the seventh. In one year, the unemployment rate has increased by nearly 40,000. Half of them are young people, and the government has no answer. There has been no lack of warnings, there has been no lack of proposals to change the course. What has been lacking is the willingness to listen and the ability to act. The Labour Party has provided a comprehensive list of what we think should be done to create work for all, at the latest today with new proposals for the Permitting Code, a package to reduce youth unemployment, to invest in the early phase capital accelerator programme, to increase clustering, to set up a programme to transfer skills from the petroleum sector to other sectors, to several study places, to several apprenticeships, to strengthen vocational training, to focus on climate change, to renewable energy and to energy conversion, and to strengthen the community economy with the possibility of accelerating school building, health home development and employment in important welfare sectors. In the fall elections, the voters gave a clear message: they turned their backs on the Right and the Advance Party's policy. From a result of 43 pst. in 2013 these lots received 33 pst this time. In the local government around the country, the center parties also turn their backs on the Right and the Advance Party in many places. The same will happen at country level in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1873	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1876	In a wise speech earlier today, the Christian People's Party leader says that the most important thing to combat poverty and reduce inequalities is to create new jobs. I agree with that, and that is one of the reasons why the government is now warning a continued commitment to work, activity and conversion, as it has been from day one for this government. The focus is on reducing unemployment and increasing employment. The working party has many different responses to existing leave – some of which have already been proposed and implemented by the government. But the party has far fewer proposals for creating new jobs. What surprises me most, however, is that the Labour Party's response to unemployment in its alternative budgets is financed by sending a tax bill of billions to just the Norwegian business community to create and invest in the new jobs we now need. If the representative Giske is going to look forward and not backwards, as he did now in the last five minutes, why does he think that bill is a good tool for starting new businesses and new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1884	Now it is well documented by professional economic expertise that the tax cuts that the Right and the Advance Party have distributed to the richest in Norway have a zero or little impact on employment. We've now spent around 12 billion. kr of the space we have for action in the State budget, for things that do not put more into work, but that increase the differences in Norway. The messages are that this will continue in 2016. We have warned against it, partly because we're spending our oil wealth, which is going to benefit many generations, on something that's not socially useful, but most of all because we need this money to get the wheels in business. It is much better to spend this money on entrepreneurial activity, on technology development, on accelerator programs, on apprenticeships, on study places and on all that we know helps build knowledge, adaptability and industrial development in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1889	Since the representative Giske is head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I allow myself to ask a question that lies in that street. The Labour Party and the representative Giske have recently been out and promised more teachers in school, and they will introduce a standard of teacher's density in school. But then the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have already given money to more teachers in primary school. In view of the lack of thorough research into the need to improve school performance, it has also been decided that research should be carried out on the subject. My question to the representative Giske is whether the Workers' Party will have research-based knowledge that increasing teacher's density really is what should make the school better, or whether the Workers' Party will in any case adopt a teacher's norm, although research may show that increasing teacher's density does not produce the expected result.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1898	I think we from the Labour Party, along with the rest of the opposition, were quite surprised when we saw the 2015 state budget from the government, which had almost a hundred times as much investment in tax cuts as total investment in primary and secondary education – nothing at all for early work, nothing for increasing teacher density and little for quality development, besides what the Stortinget has gathered about in a post-secondary and further education effort. What the teachers at school tell us is that increasing teacher density gives better time to follow up on each student, and it's wrong that this research says this doesn't work. It's obvious that on some level, there's certainly more learning in a classroom with one teacher than with no teachers. So the question is, where does this margin go? But what the school itself says is that if they're to follow each student in a proper way, they're good at continuing education, they're good at studying, but first of all it's important to have enough teachers, so you have time to see the individual, guide the individual and help the individual where the student needs help.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1905	I record that the representative is very concerned about taxes and taxes and that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has managed to reduce this, and I wonder what taxes and taxes the Workers' Party will increase if they come to power again. But that's not what my question is about. I still want answers to the previous question, because if the representative is so sure that there is clear research that shows that teacher density is what's going to happen, he's actually one of the chosen ones who knows exactly this. So my question is still: will the Labour Party and the representative take into account thoroughly research that is on increasing teacher density, whether that is what is going to be at school, or does the representative with an open mind whether there may be other things that need to be done in school in order for the students to get better results?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1912	There's certainly not one thing that makes school get better, that's a lot of things. That's why it's very strange that this government has one thing they're betting on in school, and it's continuing education for teachers. My theory and the view of the Workers' Party is that the teachers in the school do not primarily lack knowledge, but they lack first and foremost time to follow up the individual. The teachers themselves say very clearly that increasing teacher density is what best enables them to follow up better. The student organisation says they want to increase teacher density. When parents – the voters in Norway – are asked about the main school initiatives, they also respond to smaller class sizes, i.e. increased teacher density. Then I register that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that both teachers, students and parents in Norway are wrong about what creates a better school. So we're going to listen to these. When one of four students in school ends up before they've completed high school, we have to do some new things. If we continue with the same policy as before, we're going to get the same results, and our students deserve better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1921	The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has pledged the ambitions of climate policy both nationally and internationally. There has been a noticeable change in pace after several years of braking, for example. conversion of industry in a climate-friendly direction. A few weeks ago, a good report by LO and NHO on the competitiveness of the low-carbon society came. Does this also mean a new and strengthened willingness to change in a climate-friendly direction from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1928	I do not know exactly where to begin to answer that question, because the premise of the question is fundamentally wrong – there has been no change in the pace of climate change after the government change. On the contrary, it is the opposition that has driven a bet on, among other things, in many environmental areas. electrification, green bet, climate action. In the last period, one of the measures against the crisis, which the representative knows well from his own country, was a commitment to new technology, to climate-friendly technology. The paint package deals with, among other things, the development of new green shipping solutions. So this is an area the Workers' Party has put a lot on, and will bet a lot on. In the package we have presented against unemployment, there is a strong strengthening of climate technology funds, a strong commitment to renewable energy, and a strong commitment to, among others. the green impact of the maritime industry components to contribute to increased employment and reduce unemployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1935	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1938	Norway has a proud story. We have been and are a creative nation that has been a driver of technology and industry for centuries. In many areas our success is the victory of those who dared to bet, and who did not lose their courage despite warnings from pessimists and doomsday prophets. The belief that the impossible is possible is also the story of some of our nation's most proud moments. We tamed the hydropower, and in 1885 the woodworking company Laugstol Ut in Skien found out that they could sell excess electricity to private households. In this way you created a completely different everyday life for ordinary people. With the hydropower revolution came the industrial ventures: Hydro and Elkem, Odda, Glomfjord and Rjukan. Half a century later, little Christmas Eve in 1969, the news of the Ecofisk field came, a field that alone has given Norway more than 2,000 billion. kr in income and represents the start of an industry currently employing 300000 employees and apprentices. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is at the forefront of innovation and innovation. The technology that this industry has developed over decades will be crucial for the next steps in our history, just as the technology that we had acquired to build major dams was crucial to building the huge foundations of the oil platforms. It has been and will continue to be crucial to have a country and a political leadership in Norway that understands the long-term measures that need to be taken to ensure a further transformation of the country. It is a bit surprising in this debate to have to tell social democrats that politics too has something to say in this context. In the elections two years ago, where the bourgeois parties were given a massive mandate to co-govern, the ability to change and the framework conditions to ensure that wealth in our country can continue to grow was a key theme for the voters. It's also going to be in the 2017 elections. When the oil price drop came, it revealed the need for conversion in our society, not because the time of oil and gas industry is over, but because we have become too dependent on oil revenues over time, while at the same time reducing competitiveness. More people now experience uncertainty. The safe workplace is no longer safe. This is serious for the nation, but most seriously it is for the individual who is being hit. A strength in Norwegian policy — during the financial crisis that struck a few years ago, and in that case in activity we have now seen — is that we are able to stand together on the fast-moving measures that need to be taken. The Workers' Party has largely endorsed the government's crisis management, although the rhetoric may give the impression of something quite different. So that's not where the difference is greater. The disagreement is about what are the long-term measures to better equip the country for a future in which an unforeseeable oil price is not going to have equal consequences for people, their families and Norway as a nation. A key element to equip Norway for the future is a knowledge policy full of ambitions and freedom of rest. The long-term plan for research, a new structure and new funding of the higher education sector and the commitment to student welfare and housing are all measures for an even stronger educational nation. In this way, we are developing a higher education sector that provides both good education and competence to the broad population, and develops university environments at the top of the world. We're going to continue to rust the school with early effort and a well-deserved boost for those who mean the most for students' learning. Today is the day of the teachers, and there is reason to send a congratulations from the pulpit of the Great Britain to the thousands of classrooms and classrooms in this country. The work our teachers do every day is invaluable. You cannot find the economist who can enter a classroom and count on who will be Norway's largest employer there in 20 years. There's no formula you can use to figure out which of the six-year-olds that this fall started at school, who in the future find the cure for a disease that has plagued and killed too many people over too long, or what little chemist in the girlry that before we know it, solves the climate crisis once and for all. It's impossible to know who these are, because it's not predetermined. That's why having a school that sees each one and gives all students the opportunity to stretch as far as you can is crucial, not only for the individual to realize himself, but also for Norway to be a resilient nation with wealth growth for all in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1967	Soon we'll know if the head of the Education Association can re-use the press release from a former blue-blue state budget, where she said: ‘This is a sad Christmas gift for Norwegian students.’ Better teachers are more important than more teachers, the representative Asheim has said – or rather written – recently. This is not the first time we have heard this from the Right, and we have heard it from representatives of the government parties here today as well. The working party agrees with the continuing training promise. But the Labour Party believes that something more is needed too – more teachers are needed. We listen to the teachers, who say they need more time to help students achieve their goals. Why are the representatives of Asheim, the Right and the Government so concerned to establish that there must be a contrast between better teachers and more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1980	We're not concerned about that at all. It is such that with this government there is a record number of applicants for teacher training. We also spend money on expanding the number of apprenticeships in teacher training. There's nothing we do to ensure that they don't go to school afterwards. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we spend 0.5 billion. kr to increase the teacher’s density from 1 to 4. Steps, and we follow up with money to investigate what effect this actually has. But our point has been that we are against a teacher's standard, and I'm a bit critical of getting this question from – of all – the Workers' Party, a party that went to the election to be against a norm. Now they're saying they're for some kind of norm. But in the election campaign we asked questions over and over again: if it's at municipal level, it's at school, how many more teachers are actually talking about? I say quite clearly, we employ more teachers, but the most important thing is that the teachers we have in school, now they're gaining the skills they've been looking for for for eight years under the red-green government. A threefold increase in the level of competence also means that they have the professional qualifications they are entitled to. But the question back to the Workers' Party must be: What does the norm on which they have gone to elections mean, but refuses to concreteize?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1989	We are here and now, and we are discussing the future of the country. We can discuss history, and we can also discuss former red-green state budgets, but the fact is that in the red-green time it was proposed and allocated money to 6,700 teaching places. So far from today's government there has been no one. It's the teachers' international today, and I understand that it's hard to discuss the number of teachers. But let's discuss what it's really about, and that's time. What concrete proposals in the state budget that will be presented tomorrow will the government come forward with to give teachers better time – what they have said they need – to help students achieve their goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e1996	Firstly, the representative will have a little more time, because the state budget will be on Wednesday and not tomorrow. Secondly, of course, I will not – and this I have learned on course – leak from the state budget about this. This will be exciting to see on Wednesday, when the state budget is presented. But then it's like that, even though the representative Thinning Bjørnø and the Workers' Party don't want to talk so much about the story, I think it's pretty relevant to looking at what kind of school we took over, and why we're doing the grips we're doing now. In fact, the teachers in all these years demanded a teacher's scholarship, which we've now tripled the bet, compared to what the red-green government did. It's been very important. If you're to have respect for the teachers on the world's international teacher's day, you also have to have respect for the profession it is to be a teacher. That's why I'm very critical of an idea of e.g. increasing the density, which may mean far more unskilled people entering school, rather than using resources to respect the teacher as a teacher. It also means professional competence for those in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2005	The majority of the population has decided, and the government has also stated that a standard of staffing should be introduced in kindergartens by 2020. The State Council responsible has previously confirmed that this means that the objective is to introduce a standard of manning by 2020. But he has also said that the government wants to look at the issue of a new financing scheme for private kindergartens and to see this in context. It shall be introduced already on 1 January 2016. The Christian People's Party therefore believes, and has suggested, that there is no need to sit and wait until 2020 with the standard of manning, but that we must try to get this reform started earlier. Can the representative Asheim in the Right agree that it is time for the government to present a case on the introduction of a standard of personnel in the nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2010	Thank you for the question. Some of the things I experience that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are all about on the Stortinget are just the importance that kindergartens are not just something you have as an offer for your parents to go to work. It's actually an offer that also has to have quality and content. A lot of time has been spent in the last ten years building up capacity. It's been the right priority, but now it's about content. We agree that we should have such a density, and that we should treat the public and private kindergartens better. I think the representative and I can agree that some of the main challenge is not just to put a number and say a year, but actually get enough pedagogues and have that density. That's why we've also been together in the budget just to offer those who already work in kindergarten, but who are currently unskilled, the level of competence they need to become skilled pedagogues in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2019	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2022	Europe and Norway are facing the greatest challenge of our time. 60 million people are fleeing, and we have an asylum system that distributes resources extremely unfairly. The few are being helped at the expense of the many, and the world community does not have the right tools to combat distress effectively. Within today's system, the government has taken the necessary and effective steps. A sharp increase in emergency aid in the neighbourhoods has always been important for the Progress Party, and I am pleased that the support for the Syrian refugees is now approaching 2 billion. kr. That Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg have taken the initiative for a donor country conference is both historic and important. We need to find far more solutions that help as much as possible to escape. I am happy to belong to a party that has taken on board that the refugee crisis cannot be resolved within today's asylum and refugee system. It should be obvious to most people that today's asylum system is inefficient, unfair and leaves millions of people in extreme need. Only a few percent of the world's refugees manage to get to Europe to seek asylum. Those who cope with this difficult and dangerous journey are also often the most resource-intensive. The weakest, those who need the help most, are left to themselves to a great extent. We should address the obvious weaknesses of today's system and discuss concrete ways of making refugee management more humane. Humanity towards the very weakest must be the goal, and we must bear in mind that maintaining today's asylum system in practice makes it impossible to help the weakest. The resources should be allocated by means of whomever assistance is needed, not by reference to who, incidentally, is able to put their legs on European soil. Millions do not get enough relief, and only a small proportion of the refugees will ever have the financial or resources to get to Europe. Only in Syria is the UN more than 30 billion missing. NOK in emergency aid. This huge need of the vast majority of Syrian movements was the reason why the Progress Party made a proposal in June to increase emergency aid to Syria by 1 billion. kr. However, the Progress Party sees that we can't just increase the help in the neighbourhoods, even though this is also a very necessary step to save lives. It is absolutely necessary to amend an asylum system that is dysfunctional and fundamentally unfair to people on the run. The Progress Party believes that it should not be necessary to travel half the world in order to seek protection. Nor can Europe accept the refugees of the entire world. The aim must be security, security and human dignity for as much as possible, not a dramatic increase in living standards for a small minority. The 1951 Refugee Convention was originally a convention with strict geographical restrictions. Until 1967, only Europeans were able to seek asylum under the Refugee Convention. When the Additional Protocol to the Refugee Convention was adopted in 1967, no one could imagine the huge refugee flows we see today. Today, people are at risk of life in the hope of a better life in Europe, while there are a number of safe countries in the neighbourhoods. The result, as I pointed out, is that the most resourceful refugees have the opportunity to get to Europe, pass a number of safe countries on their way to Norway and seek asylum here. At the same time, we see that the world community does not have enough resources to grant the resources that the UN believes are necessary to meet the most basic needs of 60 million people in the neighbourhoods. According to the UN's own figures, we can help 13–26 times as many in the neighbourhoods for the cost of one refugee in Norway. Often I hear horrifying counter-arguments that it is not possible to count on human life. I believe, however, that it is our duty to save as many people as possible who are in extreme distress. To do that, we need to use common sense and not help them at the expense of the many. When women and children starve because the UN food program does not have enough resources, it is about money. When 90 pst. of the money spent on the world's refugees is spent on the 1-2 pst. Coming to the West, this is about money. That's why I hope we can get away from the stupid rhetoric that many have chosen to use when discussing who should be the kindest in the class, and start looking at how we can save as many human lives as possible. Everyone can see that today's system is not addressing the enormous challenges we are now facing. That is why I am pleased that many countries have started a fundamental debate on whether today's asylum system will be sustainable, which I do not think it is. The Progress Party is committed to finding solutions. A more equitable allocation of resources could be a regionalisation of the asylum institution. I hope that more people will take part in this important debate on how to reform the Asylum Institute in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2044	The languages of the throne had an important and correct focus on the humanitarian disaster we now see, but the languages of the throne also had a focus on postponed children. As a member of the Legal Affairs Committee of Leirstein, I would like to refer to the case that VG has had in the last few days about children who have been sexually assaulted and who end up as “raw materials” in an inhuman industry, where images and films of sexual abuse are sold and shared over the Internet. VG met the Nordics who sell and share such images online and are involved in creating and maintaining a market for child abuse. In our red-green reign, we strengthened Kripos, we strengthened the punishments, and we established children's houses. I wonder what Leirstein thinks is the three most important measures that the Minister of Justice has put in place over the last two years to reduce the market that exists for child abuse, and what the representative thinks we have to do to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2051	Most of us -- I think all of us -- get very upset when you see what VG has revealed, and that's not the first time you reveal the kind of criminal ring that exploits children. We who are parents themselves are completely out of the question that people can hold on to things like you do. It was also quite shocking to see how the "light" VG came up with this, while the police have not found the same people. Much of this, of course, is about resources. That is why I am very pleased that we have agreed across-the-board that we need to have increased resources for the police and the investigation capacity in order to deal with the new type of crime, which to a very large extent is also online. The second is that we have to open up to more people in the police with a different type of background, which has, among other things, IT competence. And thirdly, as I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Government of today and we have agreed on a cross-political basis, it has also been to strengthen the children's houses and the kind of follow-up. We've been very much in agreement that we should do that. I also hope that the government will follow up on Wednesday, when the state budget comes. So it's done very well, but I look forward to further good cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2058	I will continue in the same track when it comes to combating violence and sexual abuse against children. The representative, Mr. Leirstein, and others in the Judicial Committee have worked hard to create a rapprochement plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children. We know that there are great numbers of darkness, while we see that more and more people are being revealed, more interviews are being taken, more cases are being raised before the court. That's good. But together we also say that we recognise that the situation today is not good enough – we have a big step to get up to the level we should be. There's the thing right. But then I was a little disappointed when I heard the speech of the throne, where the plan for stepping up the fight against violence against children was not mentioned. When you talk about big visions for the next year, I've at least looked forward to the treatment of this particular escalation plan, which I think can mean enormously, and there's going to be a lot of money when you talk about the cross-political and the different sectors that you have to work on. What does the representative, Leirstein, think that the escalation plan was not mentioned? Is this bad news for the undersigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2068	Now it's like we've joined forces for an escalation plan. I'm not responsible for the persuasion – I'm sure many people are happy about it – but I'm responsible for what we might do in the Justice Committee, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party. If there is nothing good from the government on Wednesday – I hope of course that it is – and we have to strengthen it, I expect that we will be able to do it in the Justice Committee as well. We are very united, not least the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Justice Committee, to strengthen that field. I feel that there is a great goodwill also from the rest of the opposition in that area. So I'm sure we'll get it done. I have also registered that the representative Ropstad on yesterday's VG network was clear that he would include in the budget discussions to increase the resources for the field, so I expect this to be one of the points on the requirement list from the Christian People's Party. But this is an important area that I think we all quite agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2075	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2078	On 14 September, the Norwegian people elected their local municipal and county representatives throughout the country. They did this to take care of their community and to ensure that their meanings and desires were heard over the next four years. However, during that time, Norway can conclude agreements that will severely limit the local people's elected representatives' ability to govern the municipalities and county councils for the benefit of their citizens. As the Central Party's parliamentary leaders pointed out, there is a number of examples of investment agreements with ISDS mechanisms going to take action at national level on democracy. But it's not only here that one can get a grip. This type of investment agreement also happens to democracy locally and regionally. After Buenos Aires took back the supply of municipal water, Argentina was sentenced to $405 million. dollars in compensation for the French company Suez. What happens when a local government wants to take back to public services? What are the consequences of introducing new regulations to protect the environment or the rights of its citizens to work? Do they want to be allowed to do so? How much would they have to pay in compensation because of a breach of the principle of ‘executive framework conditions’? The consequences of both the TISA Agreement and the bilateral investment agreements that the government will establish are unclear. Among others, LO has understood this. Therefore, in its response to the big trade and globalisation bigotry report, LO writes that the trends we have seen over the last few years with investor-state dispute resolution mechanisms give good cause for concern. Therefore, LO cannot support the introduction of an ISDS solution in the Norwegian framework proposal for bilateral investment agreements. It is interesting to see if the Labour Party will support LO's assessment on this issue during Storting's management of the message. On 5 November 1975 there was a decisive debate in this Chamber on the development of Norway. Then discussed how Norway would use the North Sea oil resources. Should we ensure national control of them? Should we, through political governance, ensure that the resources benefited the whole people? At the time, we had market liberals who didn't believe in regulation or political governance. Carl I. Hagen went against Norway's strategic use of oil resources. He could then, on behalf of Anders Lange's Party, tell: ‘We therefore propose to sell the rights of Statoil, among others. in the Statfjord field to others. As far as we have examined, there is no problem today with selling 10 billion kroner of rights." When Norway found oil, we had farsighted and visionary peoples who would use the resources to build the country and ensure good welfare for the Norwegian people. National strategists like Finn Lied and Jens Evensen saw that through political governance we had to secure national jobs. Fortunately, Norway was not bound by any TISA agreement. We had national political space to build up Norwegian production. History I tell is a success story. It's a story of hard work and political leadership. But would this history have existed if Norway had at the time been bound by the TISA agreement or by bilateral investment agreements according to the government's model for investment agreements? That's a big question. The bilateral investment agreements proposed by the government will prevent States from imposing requirements that restrict the commercial freedom of the investor. What does that mean? Well, that means, among other things. developing countries shall not be able to require the use of local labour or raw materials. In the same way that Norway protected its own industry and gave tens of thousands of Northmen the opportunity to find work in a new industry, we will now prevent other countries from doing the same. It takes time to build knowledge and competence. In order to do this, developing countries must be given room to protect their own industry. This is what they do, among other things. precisely by requiring foreign enterprises to benefit from local labour or raw materials. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has written in one of his many answers to me about TISA that one of the great advantages of TISA is that one can refuse the other TISA countries to make demands for local co-ownership, or refuse to set a limit on foreign ownership in service industries. The government itself claims that the WTO is the cornerstone of Norwegian trade policy. At the same time, we are now an active driver of an agreement that undermines the WTO as a forum for new trade agreements. The reason why one does not take these negotiations in the WTO is, of course, that many countries, especially developing countries, benefit from their right to veto the interests of their citizens. Now one goes around the WTO, putting pressure on developing countries to join an agreement that they could otherwise have stopped. It is difficult to get good answers to questions about TISA. There is now a time for openness and open processes around this appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2114	Investment agreements and trade agreements are a noble theme for the Centre Party. While we've been sitting here in the throne debate, there's been news that we're now agreeing on the TPP, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The world is moving forward. The next step that will come is the full speed of TTIP and the negotiations between the EU and the United States. Investment agreements are an important part of it. Today, there are almost 3,500 investment agreements around the world. Norway has almost none. It is about providing Norwegian business with protection when going out to the international arena. It's almost incomprehensible that the centre party can be so against that trade is actually the basis of well-being. We have to have a business that dares to be out there so that we can also support those parts of the business that the Center Party is interested in. So how can the Center Party be so negative when it comes to creating security for those on the international stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2121	Who Creates Security for? Is there security for those who may not get better working conditions, their ability to have good standards of health and the environment because it may weaken the interests of global companies and investors? Does a benefit to developing countries that will protect their resources, say labour and build up their countries in the same way we have? One doesn't. The question is: Who should be prepared for this? It's also interesting, if we look at it a little bit historically, how Norway has managed to build up to become a rich country where we've also managed to take care of the interests of the inhabitants, precisely because we haven't had the kind of clauses that have prevented us in this room from taking important decisions for the benefit of the inhabitants, without having to beg investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2126	Once again, the angle of incidence wonders me. Cross-border investments are extremely important, and Navarsete is itself part of an alliance that wants to discriminate against Norwegian capital rather than foreign capital. Norway is to a very large extent created by investments coming from abroad. It does, of course, because we have a good legal society in Norway, and you have a guarantee that investment is actually managed properly. That is what investor-state agreements are all about. It is about creating a security for those who invest in countries other than where you exist. I am quite convinced that the way out of poverty for the Third World is to attract investment. Then investor-state agreements are a fundamental pillar for attracting investment. So I want to repeat the question: how can the Central Party ignore the fact that the rest of the world is going for investor-state agreements, while Norway is going to be outside, as one of the countries that have the best prospects for investing elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2133	First of all, the whole value of investor-state agreements does not go. There is a reason why the WTO did not come ashore with its rounds, precisely because developing countries would not have such agreements. They will also be able to protect their industry, protect their national interests, as well as others. Anyone who is discriminated against can discuss, because ISDS mechanisms in investor-state agreements will allow foreign companies to sue the Norwegian State. But it cannot be done by Norwegian companies, so this will not help Norwegian companies to become less discriminated against in Norway – on the contrary, they will use the Norwegian legal system if one is in dispute with the Norwegian State, but foreign companies can and will then use other courts, such as their borders, with different rules from those of the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2140	This is where Navarsette has to talk to better people. Thus, since Norway signed the last investor-state agreement in the 1990s, those agreements have increased from between 500 and 1000 to today almost 3,500 contracts. It says something about the rest of the world being on the trail that it's also about creating security. If we go in and look at who actually sues, and what's the outcome, there's not a lot of examples of actually being sued. There are quite a few examples of the state winning that kind of case, but there are also some examples of states losing. But it's the way in a legal world that you have a certain set of rules to deal with, and that's what we're discussing right now. Is it necessary to have international legislation that also provides some protection for investors when investing in other countries? Does the Central Party feel that there is a need for some security when it comes to investing in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2145	Yes, we would like to see that there is security and good international driving rules. That is why we want the WTO to be the agency that negotiates it at a level that also makes developing countries listen. What is happening now is that the great, the rich are going to lead, and it will threaten developing countries to follow suit. ISDS mechanisms will not respond to developing countries in the way that the government in the government statement claims it will. On the contrary, it will bring power from elected bodies into closed rooms. There are closed processes. The justice that goes is also closed. It's impossible to get insight, it's very difficult -- WikiLeaks comes with some information, otherwise it's almost impossible to get insight. Australia has been sued by tobacco giants. New Zealand wanted to introduce a warning against smoking on tobacco packages, but does not fear to be sued. This will also change the political agenda. Politicians dare not take important decisions in fear of being sued.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2150	This with transparency is also a very easy argument to resort to. I mean, there's so much openness around a lot of this that it could be at all. You can only apply for, among other things. the government's web pages to find all the information you want. So the Central Party and the Navarsete believe that, like now, where you agree on TPP, not all the countries that sit around the Pacific know their own best, they don't realize that it's really the rich countries that just want to exploit the poor. I don't think so. I think it's a world that sees well-being being built, and you also build peace, by developing good trade relations. That's actually a very good proof of progress. So I want to appeal again to the Center Party that you think about it. The business we want to support in Norway needs this kind of agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2158	Does the representative believe that it is by chance that millions of people protest against this kind of mechanism in trade agreements? Are people the most stupid? Do they actually not know that there are strong commercial interests and lobbyists running this race? It's not ordinary people's interests that's taken care of, it's big global company that's running the race. The representative knows that very well. It's those who "lobby" forward, it's those who get through, and power is being moved from national parliaments and from elected bodies into closed governance. That's what ISDS is all about. It takes care of investors, yes, but we, as elected representatives, are not only to look after investors; we are to take care of people's interests, health, environment, security, employee rights and the ability to build good nations, even for those who are not as far away in their national construction as Norway is. It's both solidarity and building good welfare countries around.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2163	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2166	A few years ago, the NRK problemed the lack of access of new trailers to libraries along the road. The conclusion was that the State did not take responsibility and that the annual operating resources had to be included here. For me, this illustrates a strange attitude, where the state should be comprehensive: everything for everyone – not much for those who need it the most, and less for us who can and should manage ourselves. It reduces real redistribution from those who have, to those who don't. When they're all going to get, they're all going to get a little bit less. During this fall we have heard criticism from the Workers' Party that the Right and Advance Party are doing too little, too late, in terms of conversion and unemployment. It is, to put it mildly, exciting from a batch that less than a year ago did not even recognise the need for conversion. As late as last December, the Labour Party's fiscal figures attacked the Right and the Advance Party by the fact that the government played the 'uppole, but necessary' card when it was 'not at all the basis for it'. In its alternative government budget for 2015, the Labour Party even writes that the government has provided the most expansive budgets in recent times. So the government did too much, too soon. And the government is doing quite a lot, but not a moment too early. The red-green heritage was a welfare state that is not sustainable in the long term. Lack of conversion and priorities contributed to increased oil dependence. The two-way distribution of the economy is shown, among others: by investing 200 billion in 2012. DKK annually in the petroleum industry, against 20 billion. kr on the mainland. The Right and Advance Party are engaged in close police reform, municipal reform, rail reform, modernisation of the public sector, structural reform in the university and higher education sectors, has given a historic teaching promise and introduced patients’ health care – all of this in order to facilitate economic growth and a sustainable welfare state for the future. It's transition. Already in the context of the revised budget in April, the government was praised by several teams for providing important measures to stimulate increased value creation and strengthen growth in the Norwegian economy. That same month, the leader of the Labour Party gave his national meeting speech. In it, the need for structural change was made with the fact that change is something people experience at work every day. Unemployment was not mentioned in a word. The only concrete proposal for conversion was to reverse the government's changes to the Working Environment Act. The representative Gahr Støre repeated both parts of his post today. From a party that otherwise always believes that changes are never random, it seems that they have a stronger laissez-faire attitude to conversion than me – and that does not say so little. Conversion was thus described as a political cover for changes Norway does not need. It was not until August that the Workers' Party action plan called for action by the government to be more or less already underway: increasing apprenticeship grants, more action places and better follow-up of young people at Nav. What the Workers' Party is asking for in addition, and I want to warn you about, is to increase the period of leave from 30 weeks to an entire year. I do not doubt for a moment that employers would like to transfer the cost of locking workers into an uncertain life situation on taxpayers through leave on Nav. However, employees will experience half of their salary for up to one year, while loans on the house will be paid and food will be put on the table, without any guarantee that they will get their job back. The challenges we face are not just due to a short-term downturn that is to be smoothed over. We are facing major structural challenges. Demand from the oil and gas industries will fall in the years ahead, even if the oil price would rise. Solutions that may reduce short-term unemployment may increase long-term unemployment if workers are locked in and the transition is absent. Increased permitting or increasing the number of public employees is not an answer to these challenges. Instead, we need to facilitate a diverse private business to get the transition we need. Then it would have been a start to put away the stupid rhetoric about tax relief to the rich, when it comes to triggering investment and safe Norwegian-owned jobs. Wide tax relief makes it more profitable to invest, create new jobs and increase productivity. This in turn makes it more profitable to save and work. The latter is important to ensure the long-term sustainability of the welfare country. Then we should just make it more profitable to work. The government shall manage the long-term transition and the short-term uncertainty simultaneously. Then it is important not to go for short-term solutions that prevent long-term change, but to focus on work, activity and change, as the government has shown that it is already doing and will continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2189	If there is something that has been made visible in the last two years, it is precisely that this government has shown action. Transport is about so much more than just building concrete projects. We have now increased the pace of road construction and other infrastructure, not least because we want to increase the competitiveness and capacity of business. We want to expand the living and working regions, which I am sure the representatives of the Center Party will cheer up more. We increase road safety with safe and safe roads to drive to rust Norway for the future. Let me take a brief summary of what has now been adopted and started, in particular given that the representative Gahr Støre called for a talk about reforms, which was the big theme of the last chronology debate. Railway reform: Rail Norway now has an appropriate governance structure where we distinguish between authority and production tasks. The railway must be developed more rapidly and the offer must be much more focused on the customer’s needs. We will let go of all the good forces in both the private and public sectors to make the railway better. Resources for new trainsets, new lighting systems and several crossing tracks are just one of the things we are now seeing coming. More goods from road to road is a betting area where long freight trains will have the opportunity to transport goods when most appropriate to the customer and the market. Likewise, we have to get more goods on the keel. But no matter how we succeed on the track and on the sea, it has to be built a road. Yes, it's always nice and great to be able to start new projects if it's on the road or on the track, but what this government also has to do, it's to reduce the maintenance run after many decades when this is allowed to grow year after year. This improves road safety and not least punctual trains. This government takes road safety seriously. A wide range of measures are being taken to make roads safe. Several mincers and, not least, reinforced mid-pointing are priority, and I am sure that many who are now listening to the debate are familiar with the feeling of a new space field on the road they are using every day. The state road services now make significant efforts to improve side terrain, road lighting, curve and cross-repairs, and not least railings. Through increased appropriations and clear priorities, the State Road Administration, in cooperation with other agencies, has quadrupled the control of vehicle combinations — which in turn has led to a five-fold increase in the number of trailers banned from driving. Clearly, it has consequences. Now that we see results from reducing the number of accidents, it's not surprising. Better roads cause fewer accidents, even if speed increases. The accidents on the roads from 2014 until now are actually the lowest we've seen since the 1950s. We can do further for road safety by facilitating the modernisation of the Norwegian car park, which is one of Europe’s oldest. It is worrying that the charging policy places such a high level of taxation on safety, so now the government is working with a full review of the car charges. Driving safe cars is to be rewarded and family-friendly cars are to be paid. In these days, the last hand is also put at work for a toll reform, where we know that fewer toll companies provide less red tape and lower funding costs. The effects shall benefit all drivers through lower bomb tariffs or shorter payment times – and preferably both. Of course, many of our advance party voters had a hope that the Stortinget would see that by spending more money on community construction like road, track, etc., we would get four times as much back to the inhabitants as by investing in foreign shares, which could have strictly quickly given us poor returns. It's beginning to be a while since I realized that the world of politics is very different from the world of logic. But a solid majority of 83.7 pst. voted in favour of other parties, i.e. that that majority voted in favour of the use of tolls, for a sky-high import charge on cars, for Europe's most expensive fuel and not least for a low-estimated rule of action. That is why I am very pleased that we have managed to put in place a journey promise that Norway has not seen in a long, long time – together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2217	The security policy environment around Norway and Europe is more demanding than in a very long time. Through its annexation of Crimea in March 2014 and the continued destabilisation in eastern Ukraine, Russia has violated international law and changed its relationship with the western countries. We have clearly condemned Russia's actions and have given our full support to the EU's restrictive measures. On the military side, we have suspended most of our bilateral military cooperation, but we maintain those parts of the cooperation that we consider important for our joint responsibility for resource management and life. We maintain cooperation on coastguards, on border guards, on search and rescue, and also the open line and the contact between our operational headquarters and the North Fleet. Until Russia itself changes its behaviour, relations with Western countries will remain demanding. Russia’s offensive use of military power to promote its own interests contributes to further complicate the relationship. The use of military power towards Ukraine, combined with a significant increase in military capability, the large number of unannounced preparedness exercises and major strategic exercises in our neighbourhoods have contributed to increasing the tension and concern about Russian intentions. The security policy situation has also changed in Europe's southern neighbourhoods. The emergence of extremist groups in the Middle East and North Africa is alarming. Terrorist organisations benefit from weak states where chaos, civil war and sectarian tension give extremists good conditions. This has implications for regional, European and Norwegian security. Development and stability throughout the Middle East are threatened by ISIL’s extremely violent behaviour and by Al Qaida’s continued extensive presence in the region. At the same time, ISIL and Al Qaida also have a target of hitting western countries. Several tragic events in the last six months have shown this ability and will. The worsening security policy situation in our neighbourhoods and in the south update the need for Norway to take greater responsibility for its own and allied security. Defence preparedness and operational capability must be strengthened. The government will come back to how the defence will be set up to meet this challenge image in the future long-term defence sector plan. In Syria, the civilian population is affected by the brutality and abuse of the Assad regime by ISIL and other terrorist groups. Last week Russia also went in with direct military support to the Assad regime. This may help to further escalate the conflict. What we now see is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time, and Norway is among the greatest humanitarian contributors. From 2011 to 2014, Norway contributed in excess of SEK 1.8 billion. humanitarian and development aid to Syria and neighbouring countries. This year we have now contributed over 1.4 billion. kr. It makes us the sixth largest donor country, the second largest in relation to the population. This figure will increase further next year, and we also have to take into account the need for additional funds. Millions of people are displaced as a result of the Syrian Civil War, who internally displaced or forced to seek refuge in neighbouring countries or in Europe. Criminal networks exploit the desperate situation of these people. Through the newsprint, we are witnessing tragic scenes from the Mediterranean. The government supports the ongoing Frontex operation Triton with a civil vessel, Siem Pilot, under the leadership of the Civil Force Police and supported by the Defence by personnel. An essential part of the task of Triton is search and rescue operations. Until 27 September this year, Siem Pilot has taken 7 281 shipwrecks and 56 fatalities. On 1 October the Government decided to continue the Norwegian contribution for a further three months from 1 December of this year, with the possibility of a further extension. Norway also supports the Frontex operation Poseidon outside Greece with a civil vessel. We note a marked increase in the influx of asylum seekers to Norway. This requires a broad public effort. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the civil service have the primary responsibility to deal with the situation, but since August the Ministry of Defence and Defence have had a close dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the departments. We can be an important contributor when it comes to, for example: buildings, materials, sanitation, such as: sleeping bags and beds, and transportation. The Ministry of Defence has been very clear that we want to contribute, and it is well received by civil institutions. As a result of the request made by the Ministry of Justice and Defence last week, I decided that the defense included: shall contribute 500 cots, i.e. 1000 bed places for the reception to be established in the City Council. We are also preparing for the situation to be long-lasting and more extensive than what we see today. We therefore need to look for long-term solutions to care for the refugees arriving in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2246	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and Prospective contribution. There is no doubt that there is a need for a strengthened defence in the years to come. This is due to the international situation, and we also need to take greater responsibility in our neighbourhoods. But I really want to ask the government council to comment on a lot of what has been the topic in this room today in other discussions, and that has been the strategy of this government, namely always to attack the red-green, and especially the Workers' Party, not to want to change. If we look at the changes that the Defense has been over the last few years, they have been quite extensive. When we were in government, it wasn't like the Right necessarily set up, and in the difficult decisions they were pretty much against all the changes. The reason why things are going pretty well today is that we have changed the defence a lot. So my question is, is the Council of State satisfied with the way the Right in Opposition set up for the changes in Defence, and how will she contribute to cross-political agreement on the transitions we're about to undergo?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2253	First of all, I think we have to be very honest that the change in defence has been completely necessary, but it has also been led by changing governments from the beginning of the 2000s. When we last sat with the government, we also had to take some rather heavy and difficult grips, which were absolutely necessary for the Defense to be where it is today. So there are still challenges. I am very clear that what we are now facing, the challenging situation, and not least the challenge we are facing, which is not going to be smaller in months and years to come, means that we need to seek out broad solutions. I'm also going to add up to that. We had a good presentation from the head of defense on Thursday, where he based on what he thinks is necessary. Then we're going to have a political process where the chief of defence's professional military advice, as well as several other recordings, is going to be important for what we finally present to the Stortinget, and there, as I said, we want a broad political consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2258	Recently, the Institute for Defence Studies published a book describing the change in defence since 2000, which shows that at the beginning of the 2000s, the Right used all the energy to be against the transitions. Then they even came into the government position and wanted the upswing from among others. The working party in Stortinget, and we set up the conversion in the Defence, but when you were in opposition yourself, you were almost against everything. So it's very important now that we get a broad consensus, but that the government also takes responsibility for its watch. For one thing, pointing backwards and saying what hasn't worked before, but it's just as irresponsible to point forward and say that everyone else in the future will solve the defence challenges. What will the Council of State do to take greater responsibility for strengthening defence on its own guard? Now we've got a professional-military advice that says you shouldn't have to streamline this kind of government council in last year's budget, with a cut of over 100 million. kr. What does the Council of State do to increase defence and strengthen defence on its own guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2263	This government and I as the state council have done nothing but strengthen the defense of our own guard. We strengthened the budget by 3.3 pst. for the current year. There will be a new budget on Wednesday that will also show that we are continuing that trend. Then we have to add here that over the last eight years before we took over, there was a budget increase that was on average 0.2 pst. – for four years it was a real downturn. So the starting point was that we had to increase relatively much, and we'll see that we also keep going. It has also been important for us to stress that the defence must continue to take its share of the responsibility to use the money as efficiently as possible. For this reason, the Chief of Defense also explains to his professional-military advice that there will also be reductions in, among other things. staff and support functions – at least he suggests it – and you want to make the operation more efficient, so that the money we put into the defence will be spent in the best possible and most efficient way. It must apply to the defence as to all other sectors. And when the head of defense has so clearly taken it into account in his advice, it is because he believes that it can still be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2276	I would also like to thank you for the excellent article. I think it was the council's own words that we now have a demanding security picture. what we see, Russia's involvement in the Syrian conflict, and that is the assessment of what I want to challenge the Council of States. We have already received a debate, including in Norway, on whether we need to accept some cooperation with the Assad regime in order to win out in the fight against IS, or ISIL. I'd like to challenge the Council of State what she thinks about it. So we know that others, including Kai Kverme, a Middle East researcher, has also shown that as long as the United States and Russia coexist with different parties in Syria, it is difficult to see the end of the civil war in Syria. So it's a demanding image. I would like to challenge the Council of State on how it assesses this.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2285	That's a very good and timely question. As I was a little bit involved in my post on Russian action towards Ukraine, and in Ukraine, there is also considerable uncertainty in this area about what is Russian intention. It also makes the image more difficult to read. There are several possible explanation factors. One possibility is to seek to maintain an influence in the Middle East, the other is to seek to support Assad and Assad's regime. We should remember that arms sales to Syria have been an important source of income for Russia for many years and are still. Drawing attention away from Ukraine can also be a motive in addition to domestic policy motives. What's at stake in my opinion is that what's happening now can help further escalate the conflict because it's seen that the attacks are now happening – based on the open source reports, at least – in far more than ISIL's posts. It's also happening to the Free Syrian Army and other moderate opposition groups, which are then going to draw, among other things. Saudi Arabia and Turkey are closer to the conflict in order to seek their support. So this is a very explosive situation, which unfortunately may seem to escalate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2292	Thank you to the Minister of Defence for one, as usual, good post. Defence is in a new era with completely different security policy challenges for our country than we saw when the previous long-term plan was presented. That's why it's not entirely relevant, either, to talk about the budget cork from the red-green government or from the Bondevik government, because one had a completely different situation than one now has. But even in that situation, when there was a need for change and there was a change, the majority in the committee in the previous period were not busy making the big changes. I had to sit down and read the setting – it could always be useful – and then I read among others. about Homeland. And the plural, which then consisted of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, were very busy strengthening the Homeland Protection and maintaining the Maritime Protection, which the Defense Manager will now lay down. Therefore, is it interesting to be able to get some assessment of whether there is anything in the defence policy situation that has changed the Right's position on these institutions in the years that have passed since that setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2301	Thank you for the question. However, I would argue that although the security policy situation is different, it is relevant to talk about the starting point we are starting from, because it is about imbalances and maintenance delays that have built up over the years and that we now need to address to get up to the operational level that the current long-term plan wants us to have. After all, it is precisely the economic underlying assumptions that were some of the reasons why there was no unanimity or a wider majority for the current long-term plan. The discussions that we had at the time included: on the Sjöheimeverterung, discussions we are now going to engage in with full weight on the basis of the defence manager's delivery. And as I was about to say, both in my previous reply and also on Thursday when the trade union council came, the chief of defence's professional military council is a very central and important document. But we also have other documents and other assessments and analyses to add up to this, and we need a good and thorough political treatment both in the Grand Duchy and in the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2310	I would like to ask you something that the Council of State did not specifically affect anything in its statement. We still participate militarily in Afghanistan, we participate humanitarianly with about. 700 million. kr in the same area, and we see that the Taliban is on the march in many areas. How can we coordinate Norwegian efforts? See if we can keep jobs clear of each other, how can we coordinate that effort and what we contribute to that country, with the structure we have today, and how can the Norwegian defence manage to coordinate the humanitarian effort so that we achieve the goals we want with our participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2315	Thank you for a good question. It is a situation that has been further updated since the events of the last two weeks, for example. Kunduz, how Afghan security forces now seem to be able to at least hold the Taliban back something, but it's of course a very incomprehensible situation and a situation that can quickly turn back, and it underlines many of the challenges, and the challenge picture, that is. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that Afghan security forces now seem to be more capable than a while ago. For us, it's important to contribute to what we do, going into a whole. It has long been based on an opinion and a way of working that says that a clear distinction should be made between civil and military action. This is also one of the areas in which the Government-appointed Afghanistan Committee is to go into, to look at what works and not. But we want, as we have also stated in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, to continue with our advisers who contribute to the Afghan Special Police Unit, and we also want to continue our financial contribution, precisely because we see that both financing of security forces, stability and economic predictability in Afghanistan will be crucial in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2322	Since I was able to count that there was one line again, I have the opportunity to raise another theme. We are discussing the refugee situation from the humanitarian point of view and everything that is important and right in that area. Then we see sudden movements in large groups of people, based on distress and persecution, but yet you can think that some states have an interest in people starting to move. We now see the pressure coming from Syria, just as we see other unstable countries around us, like, for example. Ukraine, which could also lead to a refugee situation that would then affect the Eastern European countries very much. So I wonder if the Minister for Defence has any idea from a defence point of view – security and geopolitical – that large refugee flows can also be used by forces to achieve instability of other powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2331	That's a very good question, which I would very much like to have more than one minute to answer. However, I will try to give some perspective on it, because on several occasions I have recently stated that I am concerned about the health status of European policies in a number of areas, and in particular the polarisation of the political debate. We see currents on both outer flutes that we might have hoped were gone. I believe that the fact that people are on the run is not in itself a safety problem. People have the opportunity, and should have the opportunity, to flee, and they should have the opportunity to seek asylum, but in many countries we see how that pressure comes at the top of an already polarized political situation, thus contributing to creating flows that we prefer not to see. It is, and may be, a significant challenge. We are also seeing now how the conflict in Syria can escalate at the Russian intervention, so that the flows of refugees from neighbouring countries, where people from Syria have fled, can also begin to move, because one sees even less hope for the future in Syria. So this is a pretty complicated situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2341	We're used to talking about Norway as a different country. Over the years of financial crisis, Norway emerged as the exception, where unemployment remained low, lowest in Europe, and where the growth of new jobs was high despite the fact that the world around us experienced the greatest economic downturn since the 1930s. It was a mixture of some lucky circumstances, e.g. a solid development in our exchange relationship with the rest of the world, we should not underestimate that, and secure economic governance that made us feel healthy. Where other countries chose general tax cuts as medicines to meet failing business cycles, we chose another way. It turned out to be absolutely right. Just a few weeks ago, the SSB presented its last business cycle report, which correctly states that macro-economic research after the financial crisis has shown that general tax cuts to counteract downturns in economic activity are not working properly. Now Europe is coming slowly, but surely back. GDP growth is taking place cautiously, at least in most countries, unemployment falls almost everywhere, and Norway is a different country, but now with a different sign. We're one of the few countries where the unemployment rate is rising. Continuing the development that is now, it is not long before Norway has higher unemployment than Germany, and I think there are few who had witnessed it for just one year ago, when we stood here in this room and had a chronology debate last. The situation we are in now has some common features, but also great differences from what we met in 2008 and 2009. If we look at the gross unemployment figures, the engineers are driving the growth in unemployment, and it's mostly in the West it's happening. So this is, unlike 2008, sector-specific, and it's geographically specific, at least provisionally. The fall in oil prices experienced as a crisis for the oil industry and the supplier industry in the west coast includes a fall in the price of crowns, giving rise to increased investment and renewed optimism in other parts of the mainland industry. When some are concerned that the budget presented in a few days is going to be too expansive, there is a concern that the huge gain that the fall in the krone will bring will be put into play. When I hear, for example. posts of the kind that Nordby Lunde's representative held, I am particularly concerned, for her comments suggest that the more money the government spends, the more the government has done to meet the vacancy. There is a fatal error. What is needed is targeted measures aimed at those who lose their jobs, at the industries that are really struggling, and, of course, measures to ensure long-term adaptability. We have to do what actually works. The government, on its side, seems most concerned about using the word ‘conversion’ to legitimize actions and suggestions that are unpopular among people. Our criticism is not about the government doing too much too early, as it has been said from the pulpit here, but about the fact that they are doing the wrong thing. When the government weakens employees' rights, they call it conversion. When they cut the taxes for the richest and repeat and repeat that this increases the investment will, when they get reports that show it's not right, they call it conversion. When they want Sunday-open shops, it's also conversion. There is an incorrect use of the word. The switchover has been successful in Norway for many decades. For enterprises, there is a continuous process, often in interaction with the public. Therefore, we will pursue an active enterprise policy to facilitate that transition. Then we will not least ensure that people's ability to adapt – each one of us – is still high, by providing for small differences and even distribution. I have heard some government representatives call it presumptuous to talk about distribution. In the census, the government actually put emphasis on the importance of even distribution to ensure long-term conversion. I was probably not the only one who noticed that the Prime Minister of the United Nations, in a sentence where it was about justice and poverty reduction, suggested reducing differences among others. using the tax system. It is my hope that this goal of reducing differences and ensuring people's ability to make transitions, also marks the budget we get presented in two days' time – that there will be a budget that will set aside the great ineffective, general tax cuts to the most prosperous, and that will focus on measures aimed at those parts of business and those people who need it. Last year there was a sea of distance between the honorary words that were also found in the Common Era of even distribution and the economic realities that we saw when the budget was presented. The combination of enormous reliefs to the most prosperous and painful cuts that hit some of the weakest, triggered a reaction out among people that I think must have shaken the government parties as well. On Wednesday we learn about the Prime Minister's words in the United Nations actually matter, or whether it was just something she said because she was far away from the Norwegian political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2360	The right is committed to creating a competitive business, secure jobs and providing the basis for sustainable well-being. We have to create more, not more treasure. This is why we focus on knowledge, research and innovation, infrastructure development and tax incentives that make Norwegian business more competitive. Norway is a country with great potential. We have knowledge, technology and capital, and we have great natural resources both on land and in the sea. But we also have some challenges. It is expensive to operate in Norway. We have a high cost level. We have a high level of well-being that we want to maintain, and we have some strange tax rules that make it difficult for Norwegian companies to compete in a demanding market. Why should foreign investors investing in Norway drop property taxes, while this tax limits Norwegian investors’ ability to invest in Norwegian companies? Much goes well in Norwegian business. At the same time, we see jobs in the oil and gas industry disappear. Although the world will need oil and gas for many years to come, it is obvious that we need to move in a more environmentally friendly direction. New industries will see the light of day, and we see great potential in, among other things. the bioeconomy and in the sea-based industry. In the following year, the Norwegian economy became more and more dependent on oil. When the oil price drops, we pay the price that the previous government chose the simple solution for many years. They went on in the same tracks, without any conversion. It is not the government's fault that the oil price falls. It was also not the fault of the red-green government that the financial crisis came. But it's the red-greens' responsibility that they didn't start the necessary conversion in the eight years they crashed. Short-term interventions to address increased unemployment are important, but even more important is to rehabilitate and equip the country for the future and ensure that critical competences do not confuse and disappear. We need more legs to stand on, and we need more viable businesses. Therefore, we provide tax incentives so that business can use the money to create the new jobs, unlike the Workers' Party, which will return to a tax level from the time when the oil price and oil activity were record high. This is obviously the wrong medicine and also not what companies are asking for. Enterprises are asking for regulatory simplification, more research, organisation of migration and framework conditions so that they can bring forward the new ideas that can give us the long-term jobs in the future. Our government has reduced taxes and taxes by 15 billion. kr since 2013. For industry, in particular, reduced corporate taxes, reduced property taxes, the extension of the TaxFUNN scheme and the simplification of VAT are important contributions. This improves the ability of enterprises to generate profits that can be re-invested in enterprises. We need to increase competitiveness. That's why we're betting at school. We carry out the teacher's vows of time, and we put on the apprenticeship system – both in order to improve the ability of our children and young people to contribute in the future. We're betting on research and development. It's given 1.5 billion. kr more within this field than when the red-green ones crashed. Some of the funds are designed to address needs especially in the south and west, which are most affected by the oil price. We strengthen our efforts through the Research Council, Innovation Norway and SkattenFUNN. We increase access to risk capital both in the form of seed funds and pre-seed funds, and we strengthen the User-driven Innovation Arena, Enova's Climate Technology Fund and Innovation Norway's Environmental Technology Scheme. We have a historic commitment on the road and the railways and we see for the first time in many years that we are also starting to re-engage in maintenance in this sector. This and much more will help business to create the new and forward-looking jobs that we need, which can provide work and security to people. In the autumn of 2014, the Workers' Party considered that the use of money in the state budget was ‘too much and too early’. In the revised budget only half a year later, the Labour Party considered that the use of money was ‘too small and too late’. It's hard to take this criticism seriously. The fact that the oil price falls is not the responsibility of the current government or the previous government, but the Workers' Party has a special responsibility to ensure that they did not start a conversion that everyone had to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2393	The census showed clearly that Norway is facing challenges in the coming year. The fall in the oil price has resulted in more people losing their jobs, and many feel uncertain about both job and income. The speech also showed that the government takes hold and shows action. The Progress Party believes that investment in the transport sector, good business environment, cut-offs in the form field and a good education and research sector are the cornerstones of the welfare society and a prerequisite for securing jobs and value creation. With the Progress Party in government, we see simplifications, tax cuts and improvements in the framework conditions for business every day. The Group of the Progressive Party will continue to work towards this end. The impact of the Progress Party on government education policy is now very clear. A number of measures are being taken in the professional and real-time sector, for which the Progress Party has been working for years. There is also a lot of recognizable progress party policy in the fields of industrial research, structural communication and marine strategy. This will facilitate the development and growth of the welfare society of today and the future. Both enterprises and the public sector will in the future have a major need for skilled workers in vocational and vocational training. It is therefore necessary to raise the status of the professions and to combat an unacceptable level of non-compliance. This is now done by allowing alternative training courses, such as: practical training programmes in enterprises. The practical letter system is being extended, the offer for students who want to combine letter and study skills is being further developed, for example: general technical subjects, the professional correction of the common subjects is carried out on vocational training programmes, the possibility for professionals to switch between school and business training, and the Y-way is strengthened. Furthermore, the government has increased the apprenticeship grant by a total of NOK 10,000 per apprentice since we took over. Competence measures have also been put in place for vocational trainers, with an increasing number of business-hospitals. Norway must have good education at all levels, from kindergarten and primary school to vocational schools, universities and adult education. Norway, as a knowledge-based society, is fully dependent on primary school students acquiring knowledge to master the challenges they face in vocational education, study and working life. Real science, teacher-leaving and other quality promotions, flexible exchange schemes, better apprenticeships, increased dialogue and cooperation with business, practical correction – all these contribute to improving school quality. We get less disqualification, several qualified students who are motivated to become skilled professionals, academics and researchers. This is reflected in the government’s increased focus on research and higher education and the special focus on engineering and real science studies, innovation and business research – and innovation is once again a prerequisite for future value-creating businesses. Norway’s value-generating industries are competence-based, and this will be even stronger in the future. Oil and gas, renewable energy, maritime/offshore and marine, finance and ICT are value drivers to safeguard the welfare society of the future. There are different industries, but everyone has one thing in common: they're based on real science. The value creation we depend on, stands and falls on good real science. Many Norwegian students today have major problems with the real subjects, especially mathematics. The Progress Party has long pointed out this challenge and is pleased that the government is clear, offensive and practical in its efforts to gain real-life knowledge at a level that the ‘richest country in the world’ can be familiar with. The provision of continuing training to teachers places particular emphasis on mathematics and natural sciences. The quality of teachers is to be improved and the character requirements for teacher training are to be introduced, so that both status and competence are increased. Some claim that well-funded public universities are the most important for innovation. Others believe that it is in the entrepreneurial environment that innovation takes place. Others believe that it is the big companies that are driving innovation in the future. We in the Progress Party believe they are all right. That is why we are pleased that a broad front is being put in place to strengthen Norway’s innovative capacity and future value creation. We live in exciting and challenging times. Future wealth and value creation depend on the fact that collapse and government show action and dare to make courageous decisions, and the Progress Party will do what we can to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2423	In this year’s census, the refugee situation was rightly highlighted as one of the main challenges. Nearly 60 million people are fleeing. It equals twelve times the population of Norway, and think, half of them are minors. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees calls this a major refugee crisis. Increasingly, people are fleeing their lives from war and conflict zones via Italy and Greece, and that concerns us. Norwegian history tells of similar states in our own people. I've met Shetlands-Larsen, who sailed 52 times across the North Sea with lifesaving northern men. This summer, at an invitation from the Jewish Museum in Oslo, I experienced Carl Fredriksen's transport from Oslo to Sweden. About 50,000 Norwegians needed pilots and assistance to escape from Nazi terror and persecution to Sweden. In Finnmark and Troms, civilian forced evacuation and deportation were carried out to an unknown internal refugee, approximately. 50 000 from Finnmark only. From the same period of time, we have a problematic story of the deportation of Jews. Last week I experienced attending the reception of refugees at Sicilia and Lampedusa. As a decent and civilised nation, Norway has a responsibility — yes, a duty — to stand up for people in flight. This situation can only be resolved by internationally committed cooperation, with all countries contributing. This applies both to the long-term fight against the causes of migration and to the short-term expansion of the UN's capacity for relief work in the neighbourhoods and to the reception of refugees arriving in Europe. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to strengthen this acute aid work, preferably by maintaining, at the same time, appropriations for aid work that can counteract refugees. Now we have to be aware of several aspects at the same time. We need to renew the reception situation and improve housing and integration policies in our own country. We are therefore pleased that, in cooperation with the government, we are now also starting work on developing a new and better reception structure in Norway. The size is responsible for facilitating better housing and integration of municipalities. The municipalities have now agreed to settle even more, the government has taken responsibility, and there is more living than ever before. This work is now more important than ever and needs to be strengthened by increasing the compensation schemes for municipalities. At the same time, we all have a personal responsibility for how we meet fellow humans. It's just as much up to us how we accept fellow people in our communities, teams and organisations, communities and neighbourhoods. Each of us can make a difference for our new fellow citizens and contribute to good integration. I may recall our ancestors, who had experienced the war, in poorer Norway in the 1950s, where many communities accepted refugees from Hungary in a warm and exemplary way. Relations change quickly when we know a name, say hello in the store queue, hear their life story over a cup of coffee in our homes. Such close social contact points are important for all people, and especially for those who have fled their homes, families and friends. It provides a point of reference and a basis for good integration. I am therefore proud to see the commitment volunteer has shown in this situation. Norway’s population says yes to receiving refugees as well as to contributing to the welcome of refugees. This year we have seen a strong increase in the number of single asylum seekers coming to the country. This group is particularly vulnerable and needs good care and protection. So far this year, 18 children have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients, last year the number was 42. We can't have it that way. Most of them are between 15 and 18 years of age and are therefore under the responsibility of the UDI. These are currently placed in separate sections of the recipients of asylum and the UDI shall ensure that they are followed up and prevented from such disappearances. In 2007, care for single asylum children under 15 years of age was transferred from the UDI to child protection. This should now be done for children aged 15 to 18. I am therefore promoting, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, a proposal that the government return to Stortinget with a case of improving care for these by transferring the care of lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age to child protection. This will ensure that children receive a good and safe care provision, where there is child-care competence and one will be able to follow up their children better, so that they become good citizens in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2446	Then the representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2449	The current economic situation has been addressed in both the languages of the throne and in the debate today. I am from a region and from a city that is very affected by the fall in the oil price. People lose their jobs, and a lot of people go unemployed over time. This characterizes our country, it characterizes our cities, and it characterizes the families affected by unemployment. I am pleased that many have raised this issue today and that it points to different solutions. Both short-term and long-term solutions are necessary. Several have talked about the green shift that is absolutely necessary. I agree. Several have also talked about short-term counter-cyclical measures, which can also contribute to the current situation. But what is always important, not least in the times of decline that we see now, is to focus on knowledge and education. The throne doesn't have much time for this issue, but it's an area where the government has invested in the past, so we have great hopes when the state budget is presented on Wednesday. I believe that we started something very positive in the previous budget. Then the left-hand side got a pass so that it would be set of 50 million. kr for scholarships to so-called non-qualified teachers. As a result, 750 people have received scholarships. These scholarships are divided into PPU, PPU-Y and vocational teacher training. We have received many positive feedback on that initiative, feedback that makes it important that we follow this up in the budgets that are coming in the future. I therefore hope that Norway will receive more scholarships — to get more in the teaching profession and to qualify teachers who are already in school today. Several have also pointed out over time that there is a need for more professionals. Now we're in a situation where there's a lot of people who are involved in such jobs, and who, with the right education in place, could well imagine going into school. It's an interesting and rewarding job, and there's schools out there that need these qualified teachers. In the left, we are also concerned about finding good solutions to people's real problems. Then we have to venture to think a little bit new. We have arranged to try out the free SFO, initially as a trial project to gain some important experience. Already now we see that the few trial projects with free SFO report high participation and positive feedback that it is an attractive offer. For us, it's primarily about looking at school life as a whole. Is it certain that the best way to organise the everyday life of children is the way we do it today – which is the same way we've been doing it for years? The rest of the world has gone forward, changed, but the organization of school life is the way it has always been. Free SFO has many advantages. It makes the SFO available to everyone, not just to those who can afford it. Children in poor families may participate in activities that are quite common at a later stage, in line with other young people. The experiment here in Oslo shows that if the offer is free, people want the kids to participate. It gives us room to look at school life as a whole, it gives the kids room to try to finish the homework before they go home for the day. Many parents are distressed by the so - called pastime and feel that they do not have enough time with their children. Of course, not all homework is as suitable to do at school, as for example. The reading lesson, where parents have to hear and like to contribute a little at home too, but as a starting point, a few can do a lot at school and have time off when one comes home. It also gives us an opportunity to look at the leisure activities and other things that can be put into school everyday. I am sure that many people could as well use the cultural school's offer if it were given in the SFO. I think it could be positive both for the family – who get more leisure time in the evening – and for those who work in the cultural school, to finish by day. We can also imagine that we can get a little bit more systematized working around physical activity in school. Then it's clear that the voluntary organisational life that we have today, we're still going to have. We're proud of that, and we're going to appreciate it. But we have to be able to think about some new thoughts. For us, it is important that we do not allow old principles to stop innovation in the field of school. Schools are primarily about education, but it is also about giving all children the same opportunities to exploit their potential. It's about giving kids social mobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2468	There are especially three major things that characterize my mind through this persuasion debate. One is the serious refugee situation, the other is the increasing unemployment, and the third is the climate challenges, where we are already seeing the drama of climate change. Let me start with the serious refugee situation. I am very pleased that before the summer, the majority of the population took responsibility for a broad settlement, a settlement in which one initially accepts several refugees to provide protection and to give room to live a safer life in Norway. The reconciliation is characterized by humanity, where we conduct a humane, fair and consistent refugee policy. Such broad settlements are absolutely necessary, and are part of shaping our human values into a future, a future that we can experience becomes even more troubled, and a future in which many more may choose to take refuge in order to avoid war and persecution – or, for that matter, flee from climate change. As a black contrast to the agreement before the summer, the leader of the Progress Party and the country's finance minister Siv Jensen's call to the municipalities for the boycotting of the settlement of refugees. Through that boycott, the Minister of Finance has a conscious desire to spread fear that by helping others, we will lose much, while the message builds up under individualism and that self-goodness should govern the mind of man, and where ultimately one is more than enough. This is a small-scale action by the Norwegian Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance should definitely come to Stortinget and answer during this debate to the question of Jonas Gahr Støre, among others. recorded earlier today. The second major issue is unemployment. There is reason for concern. Unemployment has not been as high as it is now in 20 years. It is the West that is affected, and in Rogaland unemployment has increased by 70 pst. in one year. We have taken the matter up with the government over a long time from the opposition and said that we believe that what is ahead of us is worse than what the government is basing on. In retrospect, we see that what we've been raising is more consistent with the real world now in October. We got the answer every time we raised the issue, that the government followed the situation closely, and even we could read in the newspaper as early as 8 January this year that the Prime Minister had some sort of ‘secret crisis plan’ at low oil prices. The reality is that the government is in arrears. No plan has been submitted to meet the time we are now in in the labour market. We would put in place measures for those who lose the job. We proposed a youth package here earlier this year. Then we heard from the finance minister that she didn't think it was necessary. It is synonymous with what is the government's answer: they have doubts about action. We want to use the freedom of action, and it is important that we do so now, to ensure that businesses in vulnerable sectors can cope with the situation. That is why, earlier today, we proposed strengthening the permitting mechanisms, which will help companies to maintain their skills for a demanding period of time. I hope that the bulk of the population understands the importance of such a type of proposal against the companies that now have demanding times. We have proposed a wide range of measures to stimulate green transition and new jobs. I'm not going to mention the whole list, but the proposals are many. For the government, conversion has become a motto, but it's hard to see what they're actually adding to the word conversion. We are in favour of conversion – continuous conversion – and it is also a transformation that has shaped our whole modern history. In Norway, business is characterised, I think, by the fact that we are good at converting. Then we have to lay a foundation for it and define it, and I hope that the government budget actually helps to frame what is meant by conversion. In the end, I would have mentioned the climate, but in the census, there is almost nothing about climate and climate challenges. I'm going to be very careful to say that the way forward in climate change work is important that we stand together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2489	The concept of ‘transition’ and who started to talk about it at the earliest and best has shaped this debate today. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre stood on the platform here earlier today and felt that the Workers' Party had been talking about this for decades. That was new to me. And it's funny that we haven't come to prepare Norway for the situation we're in now because of the fall in the oil price, whether this has been on the agenda of the Workers' Party for decades. On the contrary, the last ten years have been marked by an adventurous growth in the oil and gas industry and by a one-sided policy. And Norway has some good things to do. That's only now that we're starting to label the back. Our greatest collective responsibility as politicians is the misapprehension that we did not, in parallel with this growth, use our enormous space of action to build more bones on which Norway could stand. And it's a responsibility first and foremost the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government must take, all the time they put in a government that had a room of action no other government had previously had to equip Norway for the future. But they didn't seize the opportunity. The right has long tried to warn against the strong two-way division of the Norwegian economy, but we were deformed. Now we're in the middle of the consequences. In 2011, the Left promoted a proposal to set up a green tax commission to explore a green transformation of the tax system and to strengthen our competitiveness in a green perspective. It was a good suggestion, and it got Right-wing support in Stortinget. But the Workers' Party was skeptical. They called the proposal 'a little strange' and voted it down. They claimed that this work was already in progress. If that was the case, it is strange that the Workers' Party today draws a scare picture of the fact that the government and Norway have not in any way started to convert us into a greener and more oil-independent economy, and that Norway is following. Yes, Norway is following. That's partly correct, but it's a state of the Workers' Party must take a large part of the honor for. Since its first day in the government, the government has been busy having correct and good answers to solve important tasks today. At the same time, we work to equip Norway for the future. In fact, creating a green tax commission is part of this work. Work, activity and change are key words that must shape the political debate in Norway in the future. And there are particularly two major challenges Norway faces in the coming year. One is to help secure a binding international climate agreement in Paris in December, so that we and the world can move in a greener direction. The green shift is going on in Norway, and we are facing a greener economy. This conversion, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has worked continuously since we took over the government offices. Among other things, we have Therefore, strengthened the Climate Technology Fund considerably launched a record-breaking commitment to collective and rail development increased our international commitment to the conservation of rainforest and improved framework conditions for renewable energy stimulated to a greener fleet of ships And we're going to continue the bet in the future. The second major challenge is to secure Norwegian jobs for the future. Right now there are many families, not least in my home country, who are in a very difficult situation. Maybe Mom's lost her job, and maybe Dad's in danger of losing his. In August I visited a big fair in Stavanger, which was called the Possibility Fair. It was a cooperation between the county council and Nav in Rogaland, and over 3,000 unemployed people were in search of new opportunities. Many of them were young. It made a strong impression on me. There is no doubt that the fall in the oil price has hit parts of Norway hard. For those who now lose their jobs, it's a personal crisis. Our most important task as politicians must therefore be to do what we can to help those who are out of work into new work. On the one hand, it is about remedying the situation of rapid action, such as: an extended regulatory framework for trainees, several action places, several study places and individual initiatives for young unemployed and apprentices. At the same time, we have to work to keep the activity of the Norwegian economy up. In addition, the government has announced a separate package for the yard industry, which is particularly vulnerable. On the other hand, it is about securing remaining jobs for the future while at the same time facilitating the creation of new ones. Work is the foundation of our welfare state, and we need to prepare for a future in which the oil and gas sector will probably form a smaller part of the total economy and employ fewer than today. The competence of this industry is invaluable. We must ensure that we are able to maintain and develop this competence, and also put it into use in new industries. If we are to be able to maintain and preferably increase our welfare level in the future, this becomes crucial. The big transition debate in Norway must therefore be about how to increase Norwegian productivity, ensure our international competitiveness, include more in work and further develop the technology nation of Norway, regardless of what the oil price is. Our task is not just to ‘build more legs to stand on’, but to give our knowledge and technology environments more legs to run with. The willingness to work, the intrusion and the ability to seize the opportunities lies in the Norwegian People's Party. It was these three characteristics that made Norway an energy nation, and it is these three characteristics that will take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2539	It's good to get started again. The election campaign has shown us that the challenges are still in line. A lot has been delivered, and a lot is already ready for consideration in the committees, and even more has been notified by the government beyond the fall, so there will be no lack of work tasks for us. The government has also announced that it will provide a budget with a further focus on work, activity and change. In terms of health, we have already delivered a lot. This has given us shorter waiting times, fewer queues and better and safer services for many. In particular, the packaging processes in the care of cancer have been a major success. It's great to see improvements that the Progress Party promoted in the opposition, and that we were voted upon, now be an important and proper arrangement for the joy of very many. It's about making everyday life easier and safer for most people. Legal rights to User-controlled personal assistance, a commitment to health sisters and community psychologists and a five-fold reduction of the de minimis limit for new medicines have all contributed to a marked improvement in their fields. Public health was treated just before the summer and was an important recording to show that good public health is also highly concerned with mental health. The golden rule, together with earmarked funds for municipalities, is both an important step towards raising mental health as a priority for the Progress Party and for the Government. The Primary Health Communication will take new steps in a much better way to meet all those with complex needs and the chroniclers. The hearing showed that there was broad support for our thinking about working a lot more in teams across professionals. And competence requirements are to be incorporated into municipal law. During the autumn, there is also the escalating plan for the drug field. Never before has there been any further effort in this area. The government has strengthened the specialised treatment. We are constantly getting feedback that this has given us shorter waiting time, and several receive long-term treatment. As of 1 November, these will also benefit from the free choice of treatment. This is what many people are looking forward to. Therefore, the escalation plan should mainly focus on what is happening in municipalities, i.e. before and after treatment. The whole of Mr. 2.4. NOK has been notified of this work. During the harvest, the national health and health plan also comes. For the first time, we're going to have a real review of what we have, what are the weaknesses, and how we can ensure equivalent services to everyone today and in the future. The hospital plan, as some have tried to produce it, will not deal with which hospitals are to be closed. On the contrary, it will be about the opposite: how do our hospitals survive the challenges we face in terms of building mass, competence, innovation, medical development and medical material? Just before the weekend, work was started on shutting down regional health businesses. The progress party has been very clear all the way on two things: Regional health establishments shall be closed down. What's going to happen instead, we've never been investigated in such a way that we feel confident that the model of the Progress Party is the best. We therefore meet with excitement the sample report. We believe it is for the benefit of hospitals that the model we choose has a broad political base. Finally, I would like to mention the pilot scheme for the state funding of the care of the elderly. The red-green government has always claimed that they gave the municipalities good finances. At the same time, they have recognised that care for the elderly did not improve, and that 12,000 new sick homes became just 567. So even though everyone through the campaign has recognised that care for the elderly is still too poor, the answer from the opposition is: More of what doesn't work. I say just one thing: Lucky is the one who lives in a municipality who gets to be part of a test scheme where the need is to control the offer, and not the priority of a random local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2567	The languages of the throne shall raise the daily gaze and send political leaders into the coming year. In working life, we see a situation that is getting worse every day and that affects the Western world in particular. When we talk about 120 000 unemployed – according to the AKU figures from the SSB – we are actually witnessing the greatest unemployment that the country has seen in 20 years. Hundreds of notices of cancellations come every week. It shows that there are challenging times for both owners, management and employees around. Therefore, uncertainty and hard cut is what many now have to deal with. Those who are in the middle of this, also have the ability and the will to see the space of opportunity in the future. At that time, we at Stortinget must support an active policy that helps to maintain skills and keep the wheels going. But the active policy does not reach into the everyday life of people if the government chooses to sit in the chair and answer the challenges of waiting and seeing. It just becomes too passive. The government must step up and out of the chair and deliver an active policy to those who become unemployed, to those who are permised and need to build up their skills. We need a reinforced green migration effort with concrete measures in both the short and long term, followed by action. It may at times seem that the government neither understands the situation out or is particularly interested in delivering the demand to the social partners. Handling power is hard to track. LO and NHO were already out last autumn and the government had to reverse their own changes to the legislation on permitting. The government has received both an invoice and a first and a second reminder from the same organisations without delivering it. Now, the message from the trustees and the management is not approaching the level of crisis, and the demands for action have increased. If the government is ready to improve the lay-off arrangements, we'll see Wednesday when the government budget comes. There are great expectations of that. The Labour Party listened to the parties already last year and included the reversal of the Permitting Code in the 2015 budget, and we listened to the clear signals that they now need to be further improved in 2016. Today we submitted a proposal to the Stortinget that we will go from 30 to 52 weeks of leave, that we will go from ten to five days of employer's period, and that we will facilitate partial leavement by allowing the leave of 40 pst. with daily allowance. We will take action for those who lose their jobs and for enterprises in vulnerable sectors, such as the supplier industry and the maritime sector, to maintain their competence during the transition period they are currently in. Long-term measures to stimulate green transition and job creation in all parts of the economy will then need to be reinforced. We need a national effort to reduce climate change emissions and pave the way for the low-carbon society. It is therefore important to increase the allocation of Gassnova in order to focus on projects specifically focused on the capture and storage of CO2 in industry and to strengthen key research and innovation programmes contributing to the innovation and development of new technologies for the future business. We will strengthen the Climate Technology Fund, and it is important to maintain and strengthen the environmental technology system established by the Stoltenberg Government. This has become enormously sought after, and we need to strengthen it further. This scheme was so important to support the testing of new climate and environmentally friendly technologies in the aquaculture industry. If this industry is to be able to exploit its potential, it must invest in climate-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies. Founders do not just need institutional grants; they need early-stage capital. That is why it is so important to set up a new accelerator programme, as the Labour Party proposed in the 2015 budget. Finally, I will order another measure from the government. It is simply a matter of transferring competences from the supplier industry to other sectors, such as renewable energy, aquaculture, services, space and health. Here Tekna, Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Oil and Gas and Abelia have wanted to launch a transferit, which is a method for identifying, exploring and developing technologies between actors that are not normally encountered. This could provide an important basis of competence for many industries and forward-looking efforts. Providing concrete measures in both the short and long term will be crucial in the future if we are to equip Norway for the future and for the common good we actually need to do in order to deliver a low-carbon society that is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2591	On Friday 2 October, large parts of both His Majesty the King's speech and the announcement from the King to the Grand Duchy of the state of the kingdom were devoted to foreign policy. This focus is necessary for a small country – in the interests of our security, which the Minister of Defence has just come up with, and because we want to make a difference in a positive direction and contribute to the humanitarian challenging situation that is taking place right outside our own living room door. In the security policy landscape, we stand firm in NATO cooperation, international law and the UN. The demanding scenario created by the conflict in Ukraine has also led us to follow the EU response pattern, and not least to the presentation by our government of a significant package of support for Ukraine's reform and modernisation. And over the past year, we have really seen how important cooperation with the EU, NATO and our most important allies are, in Europe's eastern and southern borders. The challenges of foreign policy are faced every day — when we hear and see through the media the suffering of the individual human being, in the tragedies that occur daily, not least in the Mediterranean. The images are touching us all. The conflict in Syria, in the fifth year, has created the greatest refugee crisis in our time, and we have a moral duty to contribute. The government therefore proposes the largest humanitarian budget in history, where emergency aid increases by 1 billion. kr in 2016. A significant part of the increase is aimed at helping the Syrian population and the refugees in neighbouring countries. The extra billion opens up so that the government can use more than the 1.5 billion. kr Stortinget has said that Norway will give to the neighbourhoods in 2016. Norway will then be the second largest donor to Syria and neighbouring countries, measured by population. The government, as the refugee situation has escalated, has stepped up humanitarian aid, allocated funds for immediate action and redispatched EEA funds to EU countries experiencing increased pressure across their borders. We are also now extending the mission in the Mediterranean, where Norwegian ships have saved lives. The government is proposing a government budget of 1 pst. of GNI on assistance. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has also offered to the UN that Norway can host a donor conference for the Syrian crisis, and has also announced that she will come to the Stortinget with a statement on the migration and refugee situation in Europe – we now know that it will be 13 October. It's a formidable piece of work we're now in the process of doing. The world is struggling with warriors – in Syria, in Sudan and elsewhere – with terrorist organizations such as ISIL and other groups that do not know the international law of war, but also with natural disasters and mismanagement. All of this calls for, not least, responsible and solution-oriented policies from the major powers, and that is not always the case. But the crises also call on voluntary society, both at home and outside. And they're all volunteering, all of them as one. Very many of our organisations – Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders and many more – are doing a fantastic job. Unfortunately, many people also pay the highest price to be able to help others – recently we heard about the bombing of the hospital that doctors Without Borders were operating in Kunduz in Afghanistan. In 2014, 120 voluntary lives were lost. In war and in emergencies, the weakest are always the ones who suffer the most – children understand nothing of the realities of war, just that they often have to bear the consequences. For children, few things are more important than feeling safe and happy on the school road and in the classroom. Unfortunately, there are often other realities. According to the report ‘Education under Attack 2014’, attacks and military use of educational institutions have taken place across 70 countries. And from almost 100 pst. school coverage in Syria a few years ago has lost about 3 million children the opportunity to go to school because of the war. All children have the right to education. This is why Norway is taking the global leadership to promote education for development. The government is putting particular emphasis on girls and on the poorest children, in line with the UN’s new sustainability goals. Unfortunately, the global contribution to education has fallen, but also here at home: Under the red-green government, the bet was almost halved, from 13.3 p.m. by the 2005 aid budget down to 7.2 pst. in 2013. 58 million children in the world are not allowed to attend school. Education is the key to growth and well-being. The objective is to double the share of training assistance during this major period. Work is in progress. In 2015, 2.4 billion. kr for education, an increase of 550 million. kr in relation to the 2014 budget. In the case of long-term aid, areas such as education, humanitarian aid and emergency aid, as well as the fight against extremism are areas on which this government focuses a great deal, and for a small nation with a great conscience, it is good to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2619	The king initiates his throne with the refugee situation. He asked on behalf of the government for a quick processing of the supplementary proposal to deal with the situation. The Municipal and Administrative Committee will facilitate this. We have already heard about the supplementary proposal tomorrow, and the setting if he comes on Friday, so that the Stortinget can deal with the supplementary proposal on 13 October. So we come to the meeting of the desire for quick treatment. The refugee situation is demanding for many, especially those in debt, of course, but also for Europe, Norway and Norwegian municipalities. We're all touched when we see TV images, and it's not hard to understand why the individual thoughts they're doing. For us in the Progress Party, the focus has always been on helping even more in the vicinity, and so we just suggested it with an extra run before summer. Then we didn't get multiples for it, but the situation is now even more demanding, so we have great faith that there will be greater willingness to help out more in the neighbourhoods of future possibilities. The situation we now see, with over 1,000 refugees in the week coming to Norway, and where many will be suspended, combined with the Syria agreement that the Stortinget concluded, means that the municipalities will play a very important role in the next few years to secure settlement and integration. The municipalities have been positive in cooperating on construction, so it is important to show the municipalities trust and not start talking about coercive construction, which some parties have started with. It is also important that this room listens to the signals sent by the municipalities about the capacity of Norwegian municipalities, so that there is a link between the decisions taken here and the number of refugees that Norwegian municipalities can properly bus and integrate. I would also like to congratulate all newly elected local government representatives and county representatives. They now have four exciting years ahead of them, where they will manage their trust. They have also gained great trust from the Storting and the government when we see what the Storing decided in the summer when it comes to moving down to the municipalities, by giving them more tasks and even more trust. For us in the Progress Party, it's about creating a simpler everyday life for most people, and then the municipalities play an important role, because they're closer to each individual citizen. In addition to the refugee situation, facilitating work, activity and conversion will be a very important task for the municipal sector in the next few years. The conversion that we are forced to do now when the oil price has been halved must take place more quickly. Then the municipalities play a very important role. When creating new jobs, it is important that we have yes municipalities in Norway, which meet entrepreneurs, businesses and people most in a positive way, where one rather looks for a reason to say yes than to say no to an application or an initiative. We would rather have spokesmen and advisers standing up in the morning and wondering what they can do to get more jobs and more residents to the municipality than to have spokesmen and advisers standing up and thinking about how to get more money from the state of the municipality. Then it's about making some changes to the income system, and making sure that the municipalities get to keep more of the values that are created locally. I am very pleased that the Stortinget before the summer said yes that part of the corporate tax should be returned to the municipalities to give extra income to the municipalities that facilitate growth and jobs. By making that turn, we make the municipalities more dependent on their own income, their own jobs and their own growth than on transfers from the state. Then we get the spokesmen and the advisers who in the morning think first of all: What can I do to get even more jobs to my municipality? These are important things that the municipalities must work with in the future. Local government and county councils have been given great confidence by citizens, and they have four years to make a good effort. We want them to be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2640	We've heard a lot about refugees and integration challenges from the government party Progress Party, and yes, we heard a lot about the same issues when they were in opposition, too, and not everything has been with a positive sign, to say it like that. But now the Progress Party is in a very advanced position as regards the municipalities when the representative Njåstad of the Progress Party is also head of the Municipal Committee here at Stortinget. So I just want to ask, is the head of the municipal committee, Njåstad, agree with and support his party leader, Siv Jensen, that the municipalities should say no to settle more refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2645	I agree with my party leader that this is an important task for the municipalities to decide on, because if there is something we in the Progress Party are concerned about, then it is that those we agree to accept from Norway and the municipalities should be integrated in a good way. Then the municipalities have to assess whether they have enough capacity and competence to do the job properly – do they have enough staff in medical offices, in health stations, for Norwegian training? Therefore, it is important that municipalities take a position on their competence and capacity when saying yes or no to busing more refugees. Then we have registered that Norwegian municipalities are positive, but that there is still a gap between what Stortinget has said they should accept and what the municipalities have the capacity to do. Therefore, I fully agree with my party leader that this is an important matter in this municipal election campaign, and it will be an important matter for Norwegian municipalities over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2652	Finance Minister Siv Jensen and party leader Siv Jensen may have said that she is asking the municipalities to decide whether to accept more refugees or not, but she has also – very clearly – said that it is encouraging to boycott refugees in the municipalities. And that's the question: is the representative of Njåstad in agreement with her party leader, Siv Jensen, when she asks that the decision to accept more refugees in the municipalities be boycotted?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2657	The representative, Mr Lauvås, would like to make a specific quote on what has been said. If one goes into the number that Siv Jensen held, she had more points in that number. She said, among other things: one shall assist in the vicinity – and it was in the wake of the submission of 1 billion by the Progress Party. kr more than both the Labour Party and the Storing majority wanted to use in the vicinity – which was its most important point. Words like 'boicotte' were not used, but she has stressed very strongly that this is an important issue in the municipal election campaign, and she stressed that our local elected representatives must consider how many refugees they are able to integrate with the capacity and competence of the municipality. And if they can accept it is good, and if they can't accept it because they don't have enough skills and capacity, we have to accept that the municipalities say they don't have enough capacity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2662	The party of progress has traditionally been a very champion of referendum. If there have been big or small questions, the people will be heard, and then I expect them to be respected as well. Now, at the same time as the municipal elections, there has been a referendum on municipal mergers in 14 municipalities. In one municipality, there were exactly 949-949. In one municipality it became a yes-majority, and in 12 municipalities it became a clearly no-majority. So my question is, will the Progress Party respect that no-majority and follow that advice from the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2669	Now it is the municipalities that have put this into referendum, and it is the municipalities that have to decide what to return within a deadline that the Stortinget has given, which is 1 July next year. So it's going to be a mistake from this pulpit to say something about what individual municipalities are supposed to mean before 1 July. Then the Stortinget will have the opportunity, after the state and government have assessed the matter, to sum up the reform and make the necessary decisions in the spring of 2017, and then of course we will look at the health and look at the advice we get. However, in the current phase of the municipal reform, local authorities are the ones who control the process locally and involve the inhabitants in the way they find their own. Then they sum up and make their decisions on 1 July, and then I'm going to be careful to mean so much about it before the municipalities report back on 1 July what they think is best for their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2674	Many asylum seekers come to Norway now, and very many of them are allowed to stay because they have grounds for protection, and they remain in reception for a long time. It is important that they are well integrated, says the representative, Njåstad. At the same time, he refuses to respond to his support for his party leader, who has asked the municipal government representatives of the Progress Party to refuse to settle several refugees. The SV's proposal today on a new settlement scheme is precisely about good integration and is about a task that all municipalities must do continuously in the foreseeable future. The proposal also requires municipalities to cover the costs incurred by municipalities, for example: health, school, housing – the things that municipalities of course need to have money to do. So then I have to ask directly: Does the representative of Njåstad agree with his party leader that the representatives of the City Council Party will vote no to accept and settle more refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2683	It becomes a little difficult when, in a way, the quotations are produced – both in early questions and now – as if my party leader has said nothing and only the one thing. I would also suggest that a question be asked if a person would like to know what she meant. What I am recording is that many progressive party politicians, both spokesmen and others, have our positive – on the same line with other parties – to accept more refugees within what the municipalities have in mind, and I think that is a wise approach. When it comes to reimbursing the expenses that municipalities have for settlement, this government and this large-scale majority have increased the funds compared to the previous eight years, and that's positive, so we're approaching that there's a hundred percent coverage of average costs. But it is also important to stress that some municipalities are very good at this and actually are so happy with the construction that they are making money for the municipal fund in good housing, and then it is important that the municipalities look at those who are good and learn from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2692	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2695	Developing society is about creating good housing and work regions. It will be a very important competitive advantage for business, and it will be important for employees, who can easily find new employers by having a simple commuter distance and by being able to easily live in an area. Good housing and work regions mean that business has lower costs. The time frame for families is reduced, and not least improves road safety for all. This government is building more roads and more railways than ever before. We're developing both city and country. We're investing more money in the way than we've seen before. At the same time, we are building up the collective effort in the cities. Only in the two years that we've run, have we allowed more money for collective investment in the nine largest cities than the last government has done in the entire previous magnificence period. It bears witness to bets. In addition, we have increased the appropriations for the railway by over 50 pst. in two years. This means, among other things: That now goes over a hundred more trains from Oslo S every day, all year round. In addition, we improve predictability on the roads in everyday life. We do that through increased maintenance. Over the eight years that went under the previous government, there was an ever-increasing growth in the decay of roads and railways. It took this government by today's majority one year to reverse that trend, and we are now reducing the downturn on both road and rail. This means increasing road safety. It means better travel experience, and it means more employment. For some of the measures that really help when we want to get more people to work, it's just to maintain more of what we already have. It's fast processes. One does not have to plan, one does not get a lot of complaint management, it is just to make sure that the money comes and the projects are started. Today's majority have said that we should have a package of measures that is very large in just maintenance and renewal, while the Workers' Party, the largest party in the Stortinget, has added zero kroner to its package of measures for the purpose. It also explains why the maturity increased while the Workers' Party was directing the country, when not even a package of measures in a crisis situation found maintenance worthwhile. Then we work to get more goods on track and on the keel. We have a situation where almost three-quarters of all goods already go on shipping, but what's pleasing is that in 2014 we saw a rise in freight by rail for the first time in many years. It's about increased maintenance on the railway. It is about several preparedness measures that improve the functioning of terminals and equipment and restore confidence from business. Then we've increased the traffic safety bet. We've built 50 pst. more mid-terms in 2014 than planned by the previous government. It was built three times more space, 34 pst. more cycle path – to mention something. So 2015 seems to be the safest year on Norwegian roads since World War II. There is a lot of investment in the telecoms sector. Getting good digital infrastructure in a society is very important for business, and it makes it easier for us to have business throughout the country, both large and small businesses. 28 billion will be invested. kr from the market. In addition, the government is doing a job to make sure that it is cheaper to invest in fiber through lower excavation costs, and we work with the industry to ensure that several existing infrastructures are used in a good way, so that one does not always have to build a new one. 2016 will be a year in which we will also make many small and big improvements in the way we run the state. We set up a road company to build roads faster, better and cheaper. It's not going to be stopped by an opposition that wants to put brakes on, because this is going to do a lot for the way we think and build on in the future. 2016 will be the year we get the toll reform implemented, which means that the drivers get a little less toll than what was planned for the previous government, and that is where we turn a trend. With the rail reform, a better and clearer division of responsibilities in the railway sector will be seen. We have new parking rules in place – which have been lying for ten years without having been done anything about – new postal laws, and we are making many changes that are about a better and simpler everyday life for people, namely simpler rules for those with cars, simpler rules for car enthusiasts, etc. Then it's important that we also take more steps to ensure increased employment. I think it's been an interesting debate when you've been talking about the need for conversion, but we know that the list of missing conversions in the last eight years was very long. Nothing was done for the green data centre, as far as hydropower is concerned, lost a check so that Hydro could no longer control it, there was no renewal on the ferry, no write-off for renewable energy – there were many things that a job with for eight years to try to get improvements on and get just no, no, no. With today's government and today's majority, there are now changes, and we are getting an improvement on what are the framework conditions in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2722	Air is also important for people, and in the census on Friday the government said that air quality in several Norwegian cities and towns has improved in recent years. At the same time, the government acknowledges that there are problems in particular with concentrations of nitrogen dioxide and that both national targets and limit values in the EU Air Quality Directive are being exceeded. In the census, it is announced that the government will, at the hearing, send a proposal to tighten the limit values for particulate matter from 2016, but there is nothing to say about what you want to do with nitrogen dioxide or with sulphur dioxide. At the same time as we heard the census here, Norway was convicted by the EFTA Court of Justice of these exceedances. My question to the Council of State will be: What action will the Council of State take to bring us below the limit values of the EU Air Quality Directive and achieve our own national targets for nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, and when can we expect acceptable air quality in all cities and agglomerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2729	The EFTA judgment against Norway just before the weekend was a total slaughter of red-green environmental policies between 2009 and 2012. In fact, it was the period that the EFTA looked at and said this is not in line with the rules and obligations that Norway has. Blaming today's government for something that happened under the previous government, I think it's pretty interesting, but it's going to pay the questioner's bill. As in any case, while the previous government made diesel cars cheaper and thus increased the market share for it, we have seen that electric cars and plug-in hybrid sales have increased during today's government, and we also see that the diesel car share is falling sharply, at the expense of also increasing the petrol share. In addition, we see that we have increased collective investment with today's government. We have an increased stake on the railway. There will now be an Enova programme which will provide more shore-side electricity at berths in the largest cities. All of this helps to make it more attractive to choose collective solutions and not drive a car, and one removes the emissions from the big emitters in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2736	Then I have to be allowed to say that it is disappointing. Here I invite the Council of State to say something about what you want to do in the future. I was not at all concerned with allocating blame. But it's very important in the Council of States' worldview. It is a fact, as the government itself admitted on Friday, that we have too poor air quality in several cities and agglomerations. My question was: What action will the Council of State take, and when can we expect to have satisfactory air quality for the people living in all cities and agglomerations in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2743	I understand that the questioner doesn't want to deal with the causal relationship here, but when the previous government made it cheaper to increase the emissions that we are concerned about here, you also have to take it into account. Today’s government does not believe diesel vehicles should be the most competitive vehicle. On the contrary, we're making sure hybrid cars are cheaper to drive. There's one answer to the question. Land current I mentioned – to make sure that the offshore vessels that are especially at the port of Bergen, or larger boats that are in the port of Oslo, do not go on diesel power, but get electricity on board. There is another important tool precisely to get these discharge points out of the big cities. It is a third measure to focus on improving the provision of collective services, choosing buses or trains to and from work rather than driving a private car. We've increased the railway appropriations by 50 pst. in two years. That's six billion. kr more. We've made sure that a city like Oslo has been allocated four times more money for collective action in two years than one has done in the last two years with a red-green government. So it's happening a lot, but it's a lot to take back.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2754	As the Council of State said, there has been a shift in social policy with the new majority since 2013. It is granted and built significantly more both road and rail than before. The maintenance run, as was also said, is being reduced for the first time in the case of national roads, in 2015. But through visits to a number of counties in the last year, I still record great concern about the lack of maintenance of part of our county roads. This is not least from enterprises that depend on good and predictable availability every day 365 days of the year. In many counties, there is an actual increase in the maintenance run. What will the Minister of Transport do to achieve the same reduction in the maintenance of our county roads that is now being seen on the highways?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2761	Let me first thank you for the question and say that, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are lifting in stock and are making sure that the development that has been going on for many years, so that we have now started to decrease in years – and one who knew about it from the previous government's team as well. The same promise we're working on is also on the county roads. If you see, for example, in the three northernmost states, each of the counties has an earmarked allocation of between 100 and 150 pst. in the case of county roads. It makes them better able to do that job. At the same time, there are a lot of means that they use on transportation, which also came into the general framework pot. Therefore, it is important that we work to ensure that each county also prioritizes road and road maintenance in order to help take this reduction. But the earmarked share that the government proposed and the Stortinge granted has increased by a three-digit percentage in most states. It shows that the budgetary balances we have achieved together are a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2766	In the election campaign the Senterparte proposed to halve the toll rates for heavy-duty vehicles. This would have been a targeted measure to reduce business transport costs, and it would in fact not have gone beyond the toll revenue of the Council of State than he would still have had more toll at his disposal than all his predecessors. I was surprised at the Council's response then, which referred to this as an election bottle. I can promise that we will promote the proposal for the Storting and vote in favour of it. The councils also explained it with a vote in Stortinget, and the view of the Central Party on it, in June – it is a vote that has never taken place. But great was the surprise when the state council itself later in the election campaign proposed to halve the toll rates – not for business, but for mobile homes. Then my question is, who needs the most relief in the toll rates now? Is it cars, or is it Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2773	I think it is heartwarming to get such a question from a former State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport who has helped increase the level of tolls – yes, it has quadrupled while he was in the government system and working – and now he is suddenly concerned about the level. Then I'll promise him that as a FrP, I've fought against tolls every time Geir Pollestad and others in the red-green parties struggled through the tolls. So we want less tolls because it's an extra cost for business, it's a double taxation of the drivers. We have not been able to achieve all of this, but we have had the advantage of having a toll reform together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – unfortunately not together with the Centre Party, because the Centre Party has argued against the interest compensation system in the toll reform. Indeed, the interest-rate compensation scheme is the means by which increased State contributions are to be granted in order to reduce tariffs. That's why I said it was populist when the Center Party in Stortinget in June argued against increased government appropriations to cut tolls, while in the election campaign they suddenly were for increased government appropriations to cut tolls. I wish the Center Party would argue with us in June. Then you would have gotten through even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2785	I was so happy and relieved when the government confirmed the promise of 50 p.m. State funding of the roads to Fornebu and Aarhus and to the new T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo centre by now in August. These projects have a major impact on the value creation of the entire country in terms of both prosperity and our environment. Can the Council confirm the promise that these projects will receive the State share when the projects need it, and do not need to wait for the next state budget to receive concrete appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2792	In the work on e.g. We've been very clear on the fornebuban that we're working closely with Oslo and Akershus to figure out what appropriations they're going to need every year. That's what we're also adding to the budgets. The cooperation here is very important, that we get information from Oslo and Akershus, but I have experienced a very good climate of cooperation with these two states just because one experienced that under the previous government it was not even certain that the Fornebuban was to be built. Then the Fornebubane was described as a possible project, while today's four parties that govern the country agreed that this would be carried out, and that it should be a state contribution, not only can, as the previous government said, but must, and that it should be 50 pst. It gives us a completely different predictability for Oslo and Akershus when they plan this project. This means that they can commit, because they know that the state will join and not go round and undecided. Then we also have to make sure that this is going to be the same progress, and we're working on the Ahus Railway and on the T-Bahn Tunnel under Oslo. There are projects that lie a little further ahead in time, but that we have also signaled that it is natural to work together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2804	Recently, Oslo's citizens opted for 18 years with different blue plurals, and many of us on the oslope are excited about what's going on in the city council negotiations on East Marksetra. Both the Labour Party, the Green Party and my party, SV, have continued the gigantic road project E18 to 40 billion. kr plus, the West Corridor, as an important matter, and much more so this vision now than last December when we discussed it here in the hall last. In short, it is possible that the City Council statement will demand that the project be renegotiated and strongly reduced. How will the Council of State meet such a unity in the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2811	It is an incredibly important theme to address, and I see that more people in the Workers' Party are already starting to turn around in the chair because the Labour Party in the Stortinget is very disagreeable with the Labour Party in Oslo. That's why I'm very happy to see what kind of solution is coming. In the last week, several debate programmes both at NRK and on TV 2 have wanted to discuss E18 with both the Labour Party and the Green Party, and none of them have wanted to debate. It just shows that this is a difficult case, where it was easy to run a campaign on a superficial topic, but difficult to get in and start to justify it a shell. One of the things I noticed was that Raymond Johansen from the Workers' Party was talking here about a 16-field highway when he was interrogated at the NRK. I haven't seen any place where this is going to be close to 16 fields. In that case, it's like saying that there's a 12-field motorway going through the Oslo Centre. Yeah, that's right, there's 12 files going one kilometer away, but there's not a 12-field road for that reason. When you see how little reality there has been in the way it has been argued about the project, it is difficult to agree on the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2818	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2821	As a starting point for this debate, we have both the census and, not least, I think, the report on the state of the state of the state of the state — and the major issues that have been raised by many, not least the international situation, with consequences also for Europe and Norway. There are many who need to seek refuge with us. It's a question that we're going to discuss widely, and where the actual opposition was the initiator of the deal that was made before the summer. With regard to the challenges in the climate field, the Paris meeting and the challenges in our everyday lives, perhaps we are competing first and foremost for the most offensive and finding the best solutions, with some exceptions, that deny that the climate is a problem. But what I think is perhaps one of the most important questions this time, the situation in the labour market, the unemployment rate, we're recording that the difference is large. My impression of the state of the state report is that unemployment and the challenges with it actually fade down and are being tried dedramatized. But it's been over 20 years since we last had as high unemployment as we now have in Norway, and I think it's dramatic that far away from 10 pst. by young people in Norway today do not get a job. It's one of our big challenges. Of course, we do not criticize the government for falling the oil price. But we believe that an active government must meet the situation when we face challenges in the labour market. In fact, the announcement of the increase in unemployment occurred before the fall in oil prices. We had an interpellation in this Chamber last June where the Prime Minister responded to an interpellation from me that challenged her to put full employment as the top theme for all the ministry's work. But at that point, we heard that what we had warned against in terms of cutting in action areas, what we had warned against when it was tightening the law of the permit, was not heard. Yes, it was so bad that Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said in a debate the same spring that it was important not to call the alarm clock too early. Policy is very different in this area. We believe that this is an area in which the precautionary principle should really apply. Because if we don't take action to meet an increasing unemployment rate, we know it's self-enhancing, and that's the worst a society can experience. Instead, the answer to the government is that it cuts 1 billion. kr for the benefits of those who are on a daily allowance – yes, because the holiday allowance supplement was removed. They're taking it from them, while using 12 billion. kr to give tax relief to those who have the most in this country. Then the political difference becomes clear, and it becomes particularly clear because the government repeats and repeats that it provides tax relief to meet the challenges of the labour market, after all experience says that meeting the unemployment rate with tax breaks does not work. Yes, it doesn't work in particular, shows the government's own investigations, cutting taxes on wealth – that it would have some employment effect. It's not a business tax, it's a personal tax. Here, the political difference is great, and experience from those countries that have tried tax havens to meet increased unemployment is also clearly poor. When we met the major challenge with the international economic situation in 2008 and 2009, we also received tips and advice from the Right in the opposition to use tax lighters as tools. Yes, we did what we were at the same meetings, Prime Minister. That was the recommendation of the bourgeois side. But we chose another way, we chose activity. Sweden opted for tax breaks, so they got huge unemployment. As late as today, we have put forward a proposal for measures to improve the regulatory framework for permitting, which could dampen the situation for those who now face challenges. I hope that we can also find common solutions in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2838	It makes a strong impression on me that unemployment is increasing in large parts of Norway, especially where I am from, the West, and in the South. The fact that the oil price in a relatively short time has been halved with no immediate lighting in sight, combined with reduced growth in China, means that we are facing a conversion faster than we thought at the same time last year in this debate. It is therefore important that the government and the Storting find solutions that contribute to the necessary conversion, which the red-greens completely ignored, but which also contribute to work and activity and a commitment to the green shift. The government has announced that in the government budget now presented on Wednesday, there will be a number of concrete projects that could help the unemployed to solve their responsibilities in society. The government has carried out significant changes in Nav’s legislation in the last six months and year, and now a new Nav director has also been appointed, but significant changes remain at Nav’s to make each individual’s leave as short as possible. Much depends, of course, on the fact that we have companies that want to and get opportunities to bet offensively. That is why the government has a very business-friendly tax policy, which the representative Andersen was just about to discuss. We've reduced the tax burden by over 12 billion. kr and has said that it should be further down. I believe that the new work environment law, which has now only worked for a few months, from 1 July, could help to make it easier for some of those who have fallen out of the labour market and into unemployment rates, because although we have many action places – and through the revised budget, we increased the number of action places – it is actually better to have full pay in the temporary position than often half pay in temporary Nav measures, either within or outside the ordinary working life. At the macro level, which is also to be considered by the Storting, there is no doubt that the krone price helps to strengthen Norwegian export-oriented business and Norwegian travel. In addition, the low level of interest rates makes investments cheaper than in the past. The social partners made a second consecutive salary settlement that reduced pay growth in Norway. It also helps to make a positive contribution to winning future jobs. I am pleased that the government has already announced an additional maintenance package in the public sector, which in total is larger than the entire package of measures, the Workers' Party came to the end of the day. We know that the advantage of maintenance is that it can be started reasonably immediately, that the plans and needs are present immediately. We know where it's going to be, and it's pretty easy to distribute it. This applies to both construction, roads and ports. We have also proposed a one-year grant to support maintenance investments in hospitals in the West and South. In addition, there will be a number of major grants for cultural buildings, museums and buildings, including: in Rogaland and Hordaland, specifically mentioned – and what kind of information do we get when the budget is presented? There's no doubt that it's going to be built more road and railway ahead. Many infrastructure companies are recruiting unemployed engineers and workers these days. For many years, we have been worried about many teachers leaving the teaching profession on the right. Now we're creating 350 new places for engineers to become teachers. In addition, the government makes it easier on a general basis to start its own business for many of these engineers and will create more profitable jobs in the future. I am particularly concerned about the youngest unemployed. For this reason, it is important that the EEAS provide sufficient space for action for young people and provide more access to vocational training. It is important to provide work training to avoid drop-out, and we are going to review the Youth Guarantee Facility, which has often been more of a paper scheme than a real scheme, and we have increased the apprenticeship grant at any opportunity — in each budget, in each revised budget. We have done this together with our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We also have to make it easier to find schemes where you can combine day money and education. I am particularly pleased with the government's maritime strategy, which will help ensure Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping companies flag their ships to Norwegian flag. We are going to legislate the net pay scheme and strengthen it, both in the budget and in our own bill now. In addition, there is a yard package from the government that involves a new vessel for the Coast Guard, increased maintenance in the Maritime Defence, to a number of maritime shipyards, and we will also contribute to the Johan Sverdrup field being given the expansion that will and hopefully will result from more oilfields.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2866	There is one thing that has overshadowed the election campaign and worked towards a new big year, and that is the desperate refugee situation we see in Europe. Today we have received new forecasts for 2016 that there may be 30 000 asylum seekers coming to Norway. Great work is being done by individuals, by non-governmental organisations and public servants to receive them in the best possible way and to integrate them in the best possible way. I think the speech of the throne was very good in this field. That's why I'm extra excited when the budget comes. We need to be willing to take our share in a Europe that needs to have a common virtue to succeed, and we need to improve integration. Together with the municipalities, we need a lot of effort to ensure that we succeed as best we can. The Christian People's Party is clear that the great effort on emergency aid and refugees must not go at the expense of long-term assistance. We need to ensure that we are able to create development and to build democracy and avoid the disintegration of several countries. Together, the four cooperation parties have now ensured an offensive commitment to education, even more focus on health care, industrial development and job creation. There is a direction in development policy in which it is absolutely necessary to continue. We need to have long-term developments to prevent states from collapsing, and to avoid getting new Syrians, i.e. countries that are collapsing, resulting in war, conflict and perhaps millions of people fleeing. It's, after all, much cheaper to prevent. This is an exceptional situation in the world, and in particular in Europe it is now noticeable. We also believe that exceptional appropriations are needed. When we resolved the financial crisis in 2009, there was extra funding. Now we are going to resolve the conflict – yes, we hope to resolve the conflict too – or resolve the situation with everyone entering Norway, and then we need extraordinary appropriations. Long-term development must continue – it is not the world's poorest to take the bill for more refugees to Norway. Something I wasn't fully satisfied with in the census, related to the escalation plan to combat violence against children. In the Judicial Committee, the non-socialist parties have been clear that, by the revised national budget 2016, we will succeed in an escalation plan to combat violence against children. Then it is disappointing that in that document the government is raising important issues for the next year, the plan is not mentioned. The decision of the Judicial Committee, which was unanimously adopted, was that there should be a massive effort. In the last few days, VG Net's report on the so-called downloaders has once again made visible the extreme number of children who are subjected to sexual abuse and also spread through networks. As for the number of reports of violence against children, it's just going back ten years, and there were almost no reviews. In 2006, there were 81 reports of violence against children. Last year it was over 2,000. It's positive that the dark numbers are coming out. NKVTS, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, estimates that about 5 pst. by the inhabitants of Norway have been subjected to or subjected to serious violence by their superiors. There are terrible numbers, and that shows that we have to do more. There we have agreed with the Stortinget that we see that we are not good enough today, and that is why we need to have a stepping-up plan, which we write, to be ‘according to the model of the escalation plan for mental health’, from 1999–2008. At the time, we agreed that investments would be raised by 6.3 billion. kr, the operating costs would be increased by SEK 4,6 billion. kr, and the Justice Committee and the Stortinget have agreed that we need a similar pledge to combat violence against children. It's going to be a multidisciplinary plan. This means prevention, where one manages to raise family protection, child protection, the number of health sisters and competences within the sector in order to avoid this happening. It also means that there is a need for more resources in the field of research and follow-up of children. That means that you need a reinforcement in the children's homes, which conducts interrogations. This means that you need a reinforcement in the police, so that they can investigate matters, and also provide the follow-up that is needed in the children’s homes and also ensure that the young people who have been assaulted are given the best possible treatment and follow-up afterwards. We also expect a bet on that for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2887	The last two years have clearly shown, and the election results have emphatically confirmed that we have a government that can really mobilise people – against its own policies. First, it was the right to reserve that mobilized the greatest protest of the times on 8 March – an attack on the right to free abortion, on the freedom of choice of doctors, and on the women's own good, representatives of the government claimed. Then came the cut in the Dad quota – for the freedom of choice and flexibility of the families, the government thought, while the public opinion, research and all the empirical evidence in the field were unequivocally opposed. The result will be Norwegian fathers taking less leave. Fathers fighting against unwilling employers will have less freedom of choice and families lose some of the flexibility that the quota provides by allowing both to be children’s parents and to return to work quickly. Then came the changes in the Working Environment Act, which led to a general strike for the first time in 16 years. Hundreds of thousands of people in cities and villages all over the country lay down the work and took to the streets. Not that any of this unique involvement made a notable impression on the government. When the March 8 trains were longer than ever, the Prime Minister pushed out and said she couldn't understand why people made this such an important matter – the women just didn't realize that an attack on their rights was really for their benefit. The people had also not realized that only they were imposed longer working days, more overtime, and that they would have to be able to work several Sundays in a row, while at the same time reducing job protection, then they got a simpler everyday life. Of course, the people have understood. The voters are always right. People have realized that the government's policy – case by case, step by step – is taking Norway in the wrong direction. People wouldn't have the right policy. That's why the government didn't talk about it before the elections. Now, for two years, they have served on a case where conversion, flexibility and freedom of choice are the stated goal, where the solutions prove to be blue copies from ancient times, and less freedom of choice and less flexibility for people, and where a weakened workline and a weakened Equality Norway is the real result. One of the first governments did was draw the big-time message of equality that the red-greens had presented. It pointed the way forward to Equality Norway, with visions and measures, because equality does not come of itself. For two years, we have been waiting for the government to present its overall gender equality policy – the plan and measures for further progress. While we have been waiting for it, the government has served cutbacks and continued attacks on the paper industry, increased cash support, cutbacks in response to involuntary part-time work, the introduction of new work environment laws that particularly affect women, increased kindergarten prices and cows. Step by step, the government has put equality in reverses and continues to weaken the measures that have been proven to be the main contributor to Norway’s belief in gender equality statistics — a statistics with which government governments also adorn themselves when they are abroad. These results did not come about by themselves. We became the country of equality because we went to work systematically. Governments of the Workers' Party built structures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. We thought and believe that equality is a political responsibility such as national roads, pension systems and child protection – not a personal responsibility that you have to take care of even with tough negotiations around the kitchen table, and that you must then thank yourself if you are short. Equality was not mentioned in the census, unfortunately, but it may not have been unexpected. It is high time that the government showed the cards, showed us its overall equality policy – or, unfortunately, perhaps a lack of overall equality policy – and that we were given a debate on the way forward for Gender Equality Norway in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2906	We conservatives can from time to time be confronted with that we want to go back to the old days. That's probably rarely correct, but a few times it might have something to do with it. I'm going to town this time, because I miss something: I miss the good old Workers' Party – the party that was dedicated to building the country, that took responsibility, that was involved in major reforms, that did not cynically play two roles, and where the rhetoric didn't win over politics every single time. Since the representative Gahr Støre took over the rudder of our honoured competitor, he has been criticised for having unclear or misguided speech. I disagree. The message is often quite clear. But ‘clear’ and ‘consistent’ are two different things. And consistent we can't blame the Workers' Party for being, right, with two exceptions that I'm going to come back to a little later. Let's start with what's most important now, and as the Right went to the elections in 2013, the necessary conversion to solve the important tasks today and equip Norway for the future: One year ago when the government budget was presented, the representative Gahr Støre and several other of his co-representatives were quickly on the plate and stated that this is too much, and this is used incorrectly. Six months later, it was addressed: this is too small, and this is too late. In and out clearly, but very confusing. So from October to May, the rhetoric has turned its head around. It may seem that it is around Christmastime that the new Workers ’ Party should be listened to. The right takes this seriously. From the moment we were in opposition, we have pointed to the challenges that Norway is facing. We went to elections with new ideas and better solutions to rust Norway for the future. Instead of rhetoric and populism, we are now showing this with action and necessary measures. Norway's challenges are in line, but we have to solve them. The future of work and business must be green, and it must be smart and innovative. We therefore agree that the Workers' Party is not – their statements are clear as a high-blue harvest day. But what they do not say, on the other hand, is perhaps something more problematic. Let's take an example: Take the municipal reform. What does the Labour Party really think about Norway's perhaps most important long-term reform, which can really equip us to meet challenges in the future and at the same time provide good services to all? Well, it's mostly quiet from the Workers' Party, although I suspect they're actually in favour of a community reform. But it was this election that was to be won then. So rhetoric and short-term profit go ahead of the country's best, and I miss the old Workers' Party that had the best in the country at the top of the agenda. Tax reform is another example – also here silently. In the necessary transformation to facilitate work, activity and innovation, where we will equip Norway for the future, the tax reform will be an important part. But even here, we do not know what the Labour Party wants, except for what we have heard a number of times, at the latest today, that they will vote in favour of what they think is good. Then I ask: When will the Workers' Party decide which proposals they think are good? I think the old Workers' Party had said about it in good time. Now it's silent – and this is one of the two places where the Workers' Party is actually consistent – instead of the cheap and eventually the hollow rhetoric about taking from those who have little, and giving to those who have the most from before. It wasn't, it's not and it doesn't get any more right by repeating it to the boring. The tax reform will benefit both you and me, while there will be the necessary changes for business in reverse. The other area where we can talk about consistency is in everything that the representative Gahr Støre and the Workers' Party want to reverse, and as we have also heard in the debate here today: free treatment choices, working environment law, free school laws, changes in the distribution of parental leave, the clearing up of gambling policies and the reversal of total tax relief, to mention something. The political journey to the Workers' Party seems to be from revolution to reversal. Should the representative Gahr Støre come into the position, there is no longer a need for a minister of modernisation, then instead there will be a need for a minister of reverse – a minister of reverse who recycles yesterday's solutions in response to tomorrow's challenges. That's not what Norway needs. We carry out important reforms because Norway has changed, not to change Norway. It's not because the red-greens spent too little money that we're where we are today, it's because they used them wrong. I miss the old Workers' Party, which takes responsibility, which is involved in building the country. We're going to do important tasks today. We're going to arm Norway for the future, and we're going to invite the Workers' Party to put away the rhetoric and join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2929	A good part of the debate has been about increasing unemployment and employment; it has been a review topic. Looking at the whole country, it's interesting that ten counties have stable unemployment rates or declines in unemployment in the last year. It shows that there are many sectors and industries that are doing very well. In the fishing industry, things are essentially going very well. It is an industry that, like many other industries, is exposed to international market conditions. Now it's good times. The only thing we probably know about the fishing industry is that it's going to be bad times there, someday. In the farming industry, it is going very well, and in large parts of Norwegian industry, it is doing very well. There are many reasons for this, including: a favourable crown price, one has skilled leaders, but not least this government has conducted a policy that has been very good for business, in research and innovation, in tax and tax matters, and in general good framework conditions have been good to bring with it. I was at an industrial conference in Bodø at the end of September – Industri2015 – and it was a good meeting to be at because most were very proud of the policy of the government, and of the stable framework conditions that are given. So it is that some industries are struggling more than others, shipping, among other things, but there the government has come up with a number of measures: more maintenance of ships for maritime defence, more maintenance and upgrading of research vessels, more for green shipping, more for the development of Norwegian technology, construction of new vessels for the Coast Guard, etc. In other words, it is doing a lot of good on the part of the government. It's also that an industry and a sector are struggling more, and it's inside oil. If you look at what happened in the time before the oil price fell, it is easy to go back to 2013, when the Workers' Party increased the oil tax in order to bring tax relief to the mainland industry at the same time. There are two interesting elements. The reason for increasing the oil tax was that there was an overheating in the oil economy, and the level of taxation was increased in order to avoid a doubling in the Norwegian economy. It shows how fast things change. It really went on for a year, so the oil price collapsed. It tells us that it's very difficult to look into the future. The other interesting thing about it was using the increased oil tax to give the Norwegian mainland industry similar in tax relief. That's pretty interesting, because that means that the Workers' Party recognizes that tax relief is a grip that works, and I think we should take that with us. But it's also interesting to look at the reason why the Workers' Party increased the oil tax. The current Prime Minister, Stoltenberg, was honest that he wanted less oil activity, and now we see the result, what it means for ordinary workers. Torgeir Micaelsen, the next speaker, said the following to it to be fewer in the oil industry: ‘It doesn’t really make a special impression on me to be honest.’ Today we see the answer. Many have become unemployed. Let me say it this way: it is serious for those who lose their jobs in the oil industry, just as it is serious for those who are at risk of losing their jobs in the South and Great Norwegians on Svalbard. These industries are international industries; international conditions characterize them. But I'm glad we have a government that takes this very seriously. We have a government that facilitates increased activity in the oil industry by opening up new search areas. At the same time, we have to admit that there were two record years in 2013 and 2014, with high activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2943	I've been in Stortinget for ten years now, and in many of those years, I was – that is, part of those who were in and out of the country. I have to say that during this debate I recognize a couple of features that we sometimes also in position were slightly affected. One is what the representative of Korsberg here – what to say – is the goal of: the belief that you get more voters and more people who trust you, by ramming up a number of things that the government has done. They did, too. It wasn't very successful in every context, because when it doesn't quite hit how people think, feel and what's the reality out there, it doesn't get very effective. Otherwise, he quoted, said in a completely different sentence and actually illustrates that the main point of the oil industry before the oil price drop was just a cost level that was too high, which everyone agreed had to drop, but which is now reinforced by the dramatic fall in the oil price. There is nothing to do with the oil-created grip that was done by the previous government, which I keep in mind that today's government is also continuing. The second point has been made by the representative of Eidem Løvaas, emphatically for two articles. It's the belief that if a person just hassles and rales with other parties, without really saying so much about what you want, it gets better. It also works very badly. I just want to give a friendly advice to the Right in particular, and it's that if you want a broad deal about things, if you want more parties, including the Workers' Party, to be involved and take responsibility, it's an advantage to invite to dialogue, to invite to real conversations before using the media and the pulpit in the Storting to demand answers from an opposition, which, after all, is opposition and not government. There was a kind advice from someone who has at least been doing this for a few years, even though there are more people here who have more experience than me. The two years we have behind us clearly show that we have a government that, in my view, is unable to respond to the real challenges we face as a society. It's about the big main theme that we always come back to in Norwegian politics, which is about how to equip ourselves for the future, whether to rely mainly on the land and land of the community, or whether to bet on large tax cuts. No other single bets so far from the Solberg government are close to passing the tax cuts. It takes Norway in the wrong direction, and I believe there is another way we could use the freedom of action. Let me give you some examples: I think we'll agree here in the Storting that, for example. the next major health promise should be a multidisciplinary stepping-up plan in some kind of turbulence dealing with prevention and early action aimed at children and young people, in particular in the field of mental health. There we should involve our proposal on school health services, and the health centres for young people should be seen separately through both appropriations and decisions. Because we have painful experience in Stortinget before just saying that it is very nice that you bet on it in the municipalities, not bearing fruit as much as we would like – the money does not come out. We should bet on a strong municipal economy, which helps the municipalities to be able to employ smart enough heads and warm hands. I registered here earlier today that the senior general of the Progress Party – he calls himself an elder general himself, so I guess it's also allowed to call him this in the Stortinget – had a big deal and a big deal against the Workers' Party's old-age policy. Now I see that Siv Jensen and Hoksrud are not in the room, but some might remind them of the proposals in the opposition on the elderly billions, senior citizens, state making, full financing of the care of the elderly – so there are so many things to deal with for the Progress Party in the government that I would concentrate more on it than on what the Workers' Party thinks at any time. It is quite significant at all that the Prime Minister and, to the extent that one of her Vice-Presidents, Minister of Health Bent Höie, are well on track to deliver the tax cuts that they promised the voters before the 2013 elections – two years out in the Grand Prix. But in the case of e.g. The hospitals, which we get the answer to what happens again on Wednesday, when the state budget comes, you are not in the loop. There's 1 billion. kr behind the form for two years out of the landfill period. It shows a lack of ability to prioritize what is right for the country, and more ability to prioritize what you see is the most important things you have promised yourself. I think that more and more of me have been careful, honest, honest – some would even say too cautious – in criticising some of the government's policies. I think we're getting stronger lye now in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2960	The census shows the way forward, but halfway through the ageing period it also provides for a small en route assessment. For the Right, it is a goal to fulfill the many important promises we made before the elections, not to satisfy the skeptics or to frame their own successes, as adviser Torgeir Micaelsen just warned against, but because fulfilling election promises and creating new policies actually means a lot to many people in health and care services. Cancer is the form of disease that affects most of us in Norway. Therefore, promises in this area are of great importance to many people. The government has introduced a package sequence for 28 cancers. Eight out of ten cancer patients in the package are treated within the prescribed time. This is a promise that has been important to us to fulfill quickly because letting go of unnecessary waiting and uncertainty means a great deal to those affected by serious illness, and to their families. We've heard too many stories about patients who have had to deal with many different doctors and tell their medical history over and over again. It is a burden for serious sick people and their relatives to be spared. That is why we promised to put in place a system of contact doctors in hospitals. Now we're dealing with this law change here in Stortinget. When it is adopted, we have given a seriously ill right to a permanent doctor to deal with it at the hospital. It means a lot to those who need it the most. When we keep what we promise about packaging for cancer and contact doctors for seriously ill people, it is not primarily about budgetary priorities. It's about our choice has been to put the patient in the center – not the system. In the care area, we promised to take a number of steps to improve services, especially for patients with complex and long-term needs. Now the promises have become a reality. Our implementation in this area is in stark contrast to the red-green promises that were not fulfilled. The Labour Party promised in election campaign after election campaign that it would be the turn of the elderly. Just before the 2009 elections, the promise was that everyone who needed it would have a place to stay. By 2015, the Workers' Party was to provide 12 000 new health homes and nursing homes. The pheasant was another. When the Workers' Party left the government offices in 2013, they created 567 new ones. It is probably a gentle comfort to many older people and their relatives that the Workers' Party itself has recognized that they have failed in their care policies. Norwegian Nursing Association has provided us with important insights into its report on the impact of the interaction reform on municipal health and care. I believe that this is a rather harsh judgment on the Labour Party's care policy. The report shows that municipal health and care services had too little competence to meet increased complexity and volume of work. It created increased vulnerability and quality assurance failures. This has been demanding for the employees, but it may have been intolerable for the patients who were accidentally affected. With our government we see a change of pace in Norwegian care for the elderly. Now the record number of hospitals and nursing homes in the municipalities is being built because we have taken greater responsibility from the state and strengthened the investment grant. The size now addresses the first overall public health impact report, which will create real interaction between health professionals and put skills and quality in the high-seat. We are working on developing a safety standard for nursing homes and home care, because we know that how we organise and manage services and professionalise practices is important for quality. Some patient meetings have a special place in the heart. That's the way it was for me to meet Christian Mathisen, the 57-year Alzheimer's patient who openly tells me how the daily activity offer in Bærum has made life with dementia a little simpler, at least for a period of time. Creating meaningful weekdays for demenspacers has been a wild right-wing policy, and we're implementing it. Now day-care services for demen's spaces should be in place in municipalities by 2020. The Labour Party promised this before the 2011 elections and repeated the promise in 2013. I believe people with dementia and their relatives realize that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who deliver and deliver. For the Right, politics is more than how many billions we grant. It's solving the real problems for the real people out there. Workers' Party Health Commissioner Torgeir Micaelsen tweeted last week on Health Minister Bent Höie's election vows. He hoped there was a health journalist in this country who could imagine following Höie's promises. We sincerely hope that, because it will be an amazing article to read on the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e2991	The refugee situation in Syria and the Mediterranean and in parts of Europe is dramatic, and it has now come close to us too. Not since World War II has there been so many people on the run in our part of the world, and more and more people are coming here. We have resources to make significant contributions in the neighbourhoods. Furthermore, it is important that we receive more quota refugees than ever. We also accept more asylum seekers than before, and we must prepare to receive even more. Therefore, this is perhaps the most important issue in the municipal area during this period. Municipalities have a very central role in the large and important housing and integration work that we are now facing. Although municipalities already live more than ever, there will be a need for even more housing in the years to come. We have to avoid that too many people stay in reception for too long. Language and community inclusion are important and must take place as early as possible. Some underestimate the willingness to do so in the municipalities. In fact, the municipalities want to contribute. They are willing to receive more refugees, willing to help many who are now on the run, also to take extra care of the many lone minor asylum seekers who have arrived in the last six months. Children on the run are vulnerable, and even more vulnerable are they when they flee alone. We now see that the children are younger than before, and therefore have an even greater need for follow-up over a longer period of time. We have seen a broad public commitment in Norway, which promises good integration. Integration is primarily about people meeting people and giving you the opportunity to become a part of society. There is an increasing need for the settlement and integration of refugees, which is enough evidence that municipalities are becoming increasingly responsible in several areas. The municipal structure, which was established at a very different time, shows that the challenges of municipalities today are greater than they were in the last century. We need larger municipalities and regions, and the Left is pleased that there is a majority in the Stortinget to implement a municipal and regional reform. We are impatient and eager to get the necessary pressure and that the government shows the effectiveness. We now have an opportunity to upgrade the municipalities in order to be better able to carry out tasks they have today, but also several possible tasks in the future. In such an important reform, a more stable Workers' Party, a Workers' Party which has a tradition of supporting important and necessary social reforms, would have liked to have followed up, not least, its own enlargemental programme. Regardless of the Labour Party, however, there is a majority in favour of the reform. It's important that in the last half of the period we get the necessary changes that equip the Municipality of Norway for the future. To be quite clear, there is no doubt that, at present, small and large municipalities provide qualitatively good services to their inhabitants. But we are not rigging a municipal reform for five years in time. We are rigging a municipal reform for a significantly longer perspective. That is why this reform is about the future. The regional reform that is part of the municipal reform is an important victory for the Left. The left is concerned with shifting more power downwards to both municipalities and larger regions. We want viable regions and communities all over the country. That's why we need bigger municipalities and a stronger regionally elected level. We need to strengthen the different environments of competence, and it is important that we also have a regional level where the whole country is being used, where a balance is created between regions and the capital area. It is precisely through larger regions that there is an opportunity for interaction on larger societal tasks than current municipalities can. This will also mean that regions with a strong advantage will be able to grow their advantages to a greater extent than they can today. We need to strengthen different environments of competence, such as: are provided by moving out of state jobs. This received a left-hand pass last year, but it has to be followed up. This has been addressed for a long time by several governments, without one having come to terms with it. I understand that this is demanding. In Denmark, the government is now putting forward a very concrete plan to move out almost 4000 government jobs. Over 10 pst. by state jobs are being moved out. It's a very concrete relocation plan. This is something to go after. The left will be a force for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3012	For the previous speaker, I would say that the Workers' Party is for changes in the municipal structure. This does not mean that we automatically join all the government's proposals for the process and decisions of the municipal reform. I think maybe the Left and others should notice that the enthusiasm for the municipal reform might have been a little bit bigger than it is today, if the majority of the population and the government had chosen to listen to the feedback that has come from the municipalities and from the opposition in the Stortinget en route. When 12 out of 14 local referendums on municipal reunification ended up with no, there's a situation that should perhaps call for a little greater self-research than the one that the representative from the left now suggested. So over to the theme that I think everyone is now busy with. The situation of refugees coming to Europe will be a very central political issue for European politicians in the future, for Norwegian policymakers, and not least for all the new people elected around the country. Norway has a tradition of taking responsibility for people who flee from war. This is confirmed by the efforts made by thousands of volunteers recently to help new refugees, as when 200 refugees arrived in the municipality of Søndre Land in Oppland two days before the temporary reception of asylum was completed. Then neighbors, employees, and businesses in the area set up. They were working on a bomb so the refugees would get a bed to sleep in, food in their stomachs and somewhere they could feel safe. This is one example. There's a lot more like that. The Norwegian people stand up for the Syrian refugees. Our task as big business politicians is, among other things, to provide a financial framework for municipalities so that they are able to receive those who are coming in a good way. We have a whole set of instruments through integration grants, host municipality grants, funds from the House Bank, etc., etc. That toolbox must be used. At the same time, it is almost not possible to stress strongly enough that the general local economy is crucial to the ability of municipalities to live and not least to integrate their new inhabitants in a good way. Unfortunately, halfway through this period, the bulk of the population has not given sufficient priority to the municipal economy in its state budget. Many municipalities are still struggling with poor finances following a major failure of tax revenue in the municipal sector in 2014 and which has continued into the year. During October, many new elected local government meetings will be held. In the last three months of this year, they will be faced with tough priorities when the municipal budgets are to be adopted. It is not new that the priorities are difficult around Norwegian municipalities. At the same time, we need to understand that the municipalities are now in a very difficult situation. They have a strong desire, most of them, to accept and help more and more refugees, but at the same time they have the prospect of low incomes into next year. The representative of Skelstad said in the previous article that the spirit of hard work is great. I fully agree with that. The question is whether the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party will be involved and contribute to this effort through increased financial framework to the municipalities. The workers' party's very clear advice to the government and their partners in this situation is to put away tax cuts and spend the great money to strengthen the community economy. Then we take responsibility and ensure that municipalities can take our shared responsibility for the refugees and at the same time develop the welfare of both current and new residents. When we considered the municipal proposition in our report, we signaled that for 2016 we will strengthen the municipal economy by 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. When we look forward, we see that the municipalities will face many and large tasks. In particular, the increasing ageing of the population will put the provision of municipal services to the test. However, there is also a need for more kindergarten places and to do something about the dropout in secondary education. We must equip the municipalities for the future now and give the municipalities the framework they need to build well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3029	‘It’s work that has created our society’, establishing the languages of the throne – short, precise and completely correct. As more and more people experience their jobs as insecure, it is good that we have a government that really takes this uncertainty seriously and that equips business for the future. The oil price is weakened. Unemployment is increasing. It shows the importance of both oil and gas activities for Norway and shows how important it is to convert business into more bones. It's not a temporary setback in the economy we're facing, but a necessary transition to a greener economy. It will take time, and there will be demanding priorities. In order to create more profitable jobs, more investment is needed in infrastructure, knowledge, research, innovation and growth-promoting tax incentives. There will be more unemployed if a business that earns less has to pay more in taxes. The public sector needs to be modernised to make better use of resources. The government is doing a good job. The census and the message of the state of the kingdom show it. Work, activity and conversion are the main priorities of the government. However, this work should have gone further, for it is now that we notice that the previous government has barely undertaken a single reform. In addition, productivity declined while cost levels increased below the red-greens compared to our closest trading partners. It weakened our competitiveness. In the following year, the Norwegian economy became more and more dependent on oil. When the oil price and activity fall, we pay the price for choosing the simplest solution for too long. The biggest threat to Norwegian welfare development is that we are unable to change in time. The government is now halfway in its first period. We took over many heavy aftermaths from the pastors. In the justice field, maintenance work in Norwegian prisons was around 4 billion. kr. We took over a 1 200-person payroll queue. We had falling police coverage. And we had a new penal code like the then State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice as late as the election year thought it could not be implemented until 2021 – 16 years after it was adopted here in Stortinget. There was a great need for new ideas and better solutions. The government has already started work on improving the building standard in criminal law. This is not just a place of residence for the prisoners and the employment of the employees. Prison buildings are also an important part of the framework for good rehabilitation away from crime. People in a payroll queue get their whole lives on hold. You're in a vacuum, where it's very difficult to plan your career and family life. Therefore, the government has placed great emphasis on reducing the pay queue. To date, 222 new closed sites have been established in Norwegian prisons or are already being established. In addition, we have rented 242 seats in the Netherlands. The reconciliation queue is now on its way down and is down to 985 people. In 2013, the police coverage was 1.6 police per 1,000 inhabitants. Today this increase is almost 1.8 in just two years: more police and more security. 800 new police posts have been created since the government change. In addition, strengthening both police lawyers and prosecution authorities — a non-parallel lift. Updated figures show that the clearance rate has increased by more than 3 percentage points since 2013. Five days ago, the new penal code came into force – six years earlier than the red-green ones said they could do. There's probably evidence that clear political will came into the government offices with the government change. The change of government gave effect and good results in judgement unification.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3055	In the justice sector, we've seen in the last two years that the government believes that changing structures is the solution and the answer to most of it. It may appear that they hope for structural changes to mask the actual needs of resources contained in the statements. For what do we see? In the police act, they now have to cut, and in some places it will be postponed to recruit people to afford to make the necessary investments in materials. The police council meeting in Nord-Trøndelag informed that the North Region of the police district had to save 3 million. kr. Is it representative of a historical commitment to the police? At the same time, we see that central units are growing – that is, more bureaucracy. We in the Center Party, on the other hand, believe that decentralization is the solution, not centralization. The representative, Mr. Werp, said in previous articles that there is a great need for new ideas and better solutions, but centralisation is neither a new idea nor a better solution. In the justice field, there will be no reform break. The government seems to live in the belief that if we just move around on some boxes here and there, the content and the offer will be better. In other words, the government does not learn from experience, either from previous processes or from abroad. On the 15th of September of this year, the day after the election, the court administration sent out a message that they would like to obtain summaries of rights. This is, in my opinion, a strange time, because this matter would have been most natural to discuss precisely in the election campaign. But you can wonder if the time is random or not. Had the news been dropped before the elections, of course, it would have led to rather tiring debates for representatives of the government parties, and not least for the Minister of Justice. There would also be a greater focus on the process to come, and perhaps the hope was that the least possible attention would be given to the best possible chance of closing down the merges. A court represents something fundamental in society. Norwegian courts keep very high quality, regardless of size. There is nothing to suggest that large courts are better than smaller ones. On the contrary – looking at the case settlements in small courts, she is fond of better. One of them simply gets things out of the way faster. Recruitment is often produced as the defamation argument for merging rights. To that end, I would say that those who have constantly questioned the existence of certain courts, even those who were in the wheels of recruitment, doubted the existence of certain courts. When it's possible that the rights of things will be laid down in about a year or two, and that's exactly what makes you think of it, of course, many people don't want to search. We also have examples of how settings in the districts are illuminated as short-term institutions pending possible aggregation, and temporary institutions are naturally not as attractive as permanent offices. We in the Center Party want to create foregleams for both large and small courts. Both judges, case handlers in the District Courts and residents should experience precautionary behaviour and avoid experiencing insecurity from year to year. Sorenschrifter Knut Gramstad in Sunnhordland objectively came with the following announcements to the NRK last week, as I think good words about the situation: ‘It’s fun with a legal environment. But being a judge is a lonely job, it's not teamwork, except for the biggest cases. When I hear the argument about wider trade unions, I imagine a creative group of architects sitting and discussing. The profession of judgment has never been like that, and I don't think it'll ever be like that either. At least there are no plans to change the role of the judge, says Gramstad, and says the following about the digital work processes: – You don't have to sit in Oslo to have access to digital tools. Here in Sunnhordland, we have exactly the same reference works and systems, and a video link system of the best variety." We need to ensure that lawyers provide services throughout the country. If the courts are centralised, this may result in less dissemination of law offices because they would like to operate in the vicinity of the courts. And who's going to be the frame of this? Yeah, the people in the districts. It is also striking that there is not a proposed merger of courts in Oslo, but that there is a one-sided focus on the districts. I expect that the government in the following will listen to the local environment, and that they will record that there is no local desire to merge the rights of property. My advice to the Minister of Justice is that he should encourage the administration of the Court of Justice to put this distribution in a drawer, so that they can use time, resources and thoughtfulness to develop the courts to meet in the best possible way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3084	Of course, it is no surprise, but it is quite clear that the government of Norway now has a right-wing government. It's a government that in a lot of ways is characterized by right-wing ideology. But in our country as in many other countries in Europe, we see that the conservative parties are trying to camouflage this. They say that in many ways they are for the welfare state, that they are for the small differences, that they call about this in every way. Nevertheless, when we look at the policy, we see that they call it modernisation, they call it efficiency, and they call it the necessary transformations. In other words – and we note that very well in this debate too: they have a little difficulty in coping with their actual political intentions. The sharpest part of it in this debate is the manner in which the representatives of the Progress Party act. They are repeatedly asked to respond again and again to their support for their leader's statement in the election campaign that they would sabotage the refugee agreement. Oh, no, no one has said that. Everyone heard what Finance Minister Siv Jensen said, everyone understands what was her intention, but in this room it is clear that her own group will not accept it. At least that's how I hear it. The last example was the representative Njåstad, who consistently did not answer the question. What's interesting about it is: Is it acceptable for the Storting to have such a situation when these people are members of the government? That is the interesting question for the Storting, especially when the Prime Minister consistently does not clean it up, does not answer the question, does not participate in that part of the discussion. There is something quite new in the parliamentary situation in Norway that we have government parties saying one thing in government, and something else outside. It's never happened that way before, and at least not that the Prime Minister is not saying what it's really about. That is why there is still an important aspect to this debate on the throne. It's that it's being cleaned up in this. I get the impression that the Prime Minister will say something about this tomorrow, because this has shaped this part of the debate so much – not just because we do not understand what is going on, because we do, but because it is necessary to have a parliamentary clarification of where the government is. Will she allow the Minister of Finance to speak in that way, or will she say that it is not representative of the government? This is not for making fun, it is because this is what this debate is about, it is the parliamentary debate. That's why I'm saying it the way I'm saying it. So they're having a hard time resisting a lot, but it's a clear direction of what they're doing. I'm just going to mention two areas within this timeframe that I'm very concerned about. Agriculture policy — what does the Minister for Agriculture do? She goes beyond the provisions of the law on price control, allowing a new policy to develop within the agricultural price policy. Today I got a phone call from a farmer at Modum who was confused about the situation because the price of the properties is so high that those who would normally buy them and could run them cannot do so anymore. Is it to take care of the Norwegian value? No, it's not. The second example that I'm very concerned about, of course, is what happens in the labour market. It may be that there are some young people who get jobs through temporary employment, but what will this mean for the next generation of workers? This is the essence of right-wing policy, this is where the crucial distinction in Norwegian policy is going. And here it's going to go in the years that are coming too – in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3101	For a number of years, SV has arranged for an extended school day, a full-time school where the teaching is more adapted to each individual student, where teachers are given the confidence and time to adapt the teaching, where the school has a much stronger role in public health work – with more exercise, free and healthy food at school and a stronger and more active school health service – a full-day school where school days are varied, where practical and aesthetic subjects are given greater importance, and where the practice is done at school and not sent home as homework in a stressful family quarter. SV's all-day school is not just the most ambitious proposal in school policy in Norway today. The full-day ball is also necessary if the school is to become a social arena and at the same time offer all the possibilities to develop creativity, self-esteem and abilities. The same way that change doesn't come of itself, the whole day's ball isn't free. In the first place, this requires an additional 2789 teachers. There is a lot to say, but today there are about 37,000 teachers working outside the school. Many of them ended up in school because they felt that time didn't run out. In other words, we don't have too few teachers in Norway, we have too few teachers in school. In addition, the whole day's ball takes several hours. Should training be carried out in school days with teachers present, more emphasis should be placed on practical and aesthetic subjects and a proper school meal should also be extended. First of all, we suggest that the school day be extended by two hours for the first to fourth steps. One such day at school, in six hours, is by the way much more appropriate to family life. Most people already go to the SFO two and four hours out of school. The government acts as if there is a quick fix to create a good school, that there are some quick and inexpensive measures that make the school better. For the moment, the government is trying to get people to think that only one will make their teachers better through post- and post-graduate education, one will not need more teachers. Then there's no limit to how many elephants a single learner can put on. While the blue government is building on the post- and post-exploitation effort of the red-green government, it has shown great faith that several tests and trials in the school are creating better learning. But when teaching is more and more about practicing the tests, it goes without saying that the variety of educational tools that teachers can use to adapt their teaching to the student must be thrown onto the boat. The result is that teachers are forced to conduct exams, where the goal is not learning, but to guide the students to the tests. In other words, the situation created by government policy is quite paradoxical: the teachers are sent on after and after education, get pedagogical replenishments and new ideas for how to teach, and then they come back to a school where the educational skills of the teachers are less valued, and the professional space for action shrinks in search of better PISA results. In other words, the room for professional self-employment is becoming less and less, while the professional competence is increasing. There are no professional reasons to buy the argument that more learners do not lead to better and more customised learning. The government uses this as a snowflake argument to avoid spending a lot of money on education and training. Because when it comes to it, tax cuts – tax cuts achieved through the weakening of public welfare – are the case with big S for today’s government. It is a great leap from the plentiful figures to the school politicians in the government party to the reality when the state budget is presented. When the government released its previous budget, there were hundreds of times more to tax cuts to the richest than to primary and further education combined. To put it in a slightly different perspective: SV's all-day school costs money and increases teacher resources, but this is not more ambitious than just making up a third of the government's already spent on tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3120	For the Workers' Party, communication and transport infrastructure is an important building block in the construction of the country. We want good communication and good transport opportunities across the country. Roads, railways, ports and airports help to bind this country together, which is essential for business, working life and housing throughout the country. There is now a struggle about how to tell the history of culture. At the latest today, we heard the chairman of the Committee on Transport, the representative of Hofstad Helleland, claim that the red-green decay has finally stopped. State Council Solvik-Olsen is trying on a similar story that decay is due to the red-green government and that nothing was done at all in the transport sector in the years 2005–2013. It's a pretty signified representation of what reality is. In government, the Workers' Party started the journeylift of time. It was duly presented in the previous national transport plan and it is the continued and current plan presented by the Government of Stoltenberg II and now realised by the Government of Solberg. The government deserves tribute for following up annual government budget appropriations to comply with the plan, even though it is still a long way to go before the Progress Party can deliver on its promises from the time they were in opposition to the voters. We want to continue the big effort on the road, rail, aviation and ports that we started. It's about increasing prosperity, better trains and more frequent bus departures for thousands of commuters. It means better and safer roads, so that life and health are not lost. It means lower emissions and a better air for all of us to breathe in and live in. Yes, it's about the business needs to transport fresh goods quickly to shops and customers. It's about a country tied together. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It's about the future and the possibilities of future generations. I agree with President Barack Obama's message in Anchorage in August. It was crystal clear: we're not doing enough to solve the climate crisis, and the world has to act now. Then the transport sector, which accounts for about 30 pst. of the total Norwegian climate emissions, a key role. Measures within the sector are therefore central to reducing emissions. Technology development, public transport and the development of environmentally friendly means of transport are therefore key actions under which we want to support. We have criticised the government's road reform and rail reform because we believe that the solutions proposed do not respond to the challenges. We recognise that there is a need for better organisation and smarter framework conditions in terms of both road development and rail, and in terms of responsibilities between the Railway Agency and the NSB. But our solution is not the systematic fragmentation of the public sector and the ideological crusade for the privatisation of public infrastructure that today's government provides. We have limited faith in the ability of the free market to solve major, complex and cross-sectoral challenges, such as environmental challenges and strategic investments to develop society. There are many investments that are not economically profitable or socially viable, at least not with the models that form the basis today. There are no calculations of two lines below the answer, either with today's models or with other models you could imagine. Nevertheless, investments in improvements in the type of infrastructure that realises opportunities will be alpha and omega for those involved. It's not just useful to have a good transport in the middle. You have to have it from the beginning to the end. The question is about today’s government sees it, all the time when further emphasis is being given to socio-economic analyses. If it was that socio-economic or business-economic values should be the only criteria for where we're going to bet on transportation in this country, you can just leave to a directorate and to the government to decide where to build it. In the Workers' Party, we are in favour of conversion. The core of social democracy is the ability to formulate the social critique and to provide answers that people believe in to solve those challenges. But we believe it is important that the community has control and ownership of critically important infrastructure. For the Workers' Party, therefore, the most important thing is that we get the most built and maintained ports, railways, roads, airports and – for that matter – sewerage and water supply, to meet the needs of the future. We will primarily build the country – not sell it bit by bit to private and commercial interests. We are not opposed to changing the organisation or financing of transport. However, these measures must be based on knowledge of what works — not on a blind ideological argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3143	The debate of the throne has also taken a very predictable turn this year. A number of posts – not least from any of the representatives of the Workers' Party – are posts so full of rhetoric and so little reality that they are close to the comical one. I think that's gross. The languages of the throne and the debate on it should focus on what the government is warning or, if so, not warning. So I'm going to hurry to add that I realize that it can be frustrating to see that problems the red-green majority government couldn't solve for its eight years, and that thus went unsolved to the new government, now solved by this government after two years. The government will do much and has shown the will to do the necessary grip. It's good and gives us exciting debates here on Stortinget. So there is a lot in the languages, but I think that one of the most important things to notice in the government's work is that despite a historically great refugee challenge, major challenges in parts of the working life with dismissals and leave, and with work, activity and transformation as main themes for the coming period, the attention that is directed to those in our society who need the most public, is an equally central place in the work. The Prime Minister has declared that we are going to close the gaps in the social network, and she is following that and is still looking after it. It deserves honor. The effort to put in place a more comprehensive and even better provision in the field of child protection has full attention and needs to be concrete and met through a communication to the Stortinget – see the child from the first signals can be perceived, put in action quickly and with flexibility in the offers when needed, and not least follow up afterwards to provide start-up assistance for further participation in society, so that these kinds of challenges are not inherited. Foster homes are an important part of the provision of child protection, and this area also receives its own notification. The Minister for the Child shows a great deal of commitment to getting enough foster homes in place, that fewer people are moving around to new places, and that shelters are being used in the short transitions for which they are supposed to be there. It is uplifting to see that there is a willingness to take the necessary steps to cut through ingrown and no longer functioning systems on parts of this field. We must and must put in place an even better working offer in child protection and foster homes. Someone did not get this offer when they were young. They were not followed up well enough, they have fallen out of school, or they have, for other reasons, got a very tough everyday life, often characterized by outsidership, intoxication or anxiety or like both. These have to get help where they are. The government promises these a more comprehensive treatment scheme, a so-called package course, which will ensure fewer relapses, and that more people are followed right up to a working everyday life – another conscious, concrete effort to seal the holes in the network of support and help that gives these people a new opportunity. It deserves honor. The government knows, of course, that there's a lot of work to do. This is nothing a mere can decide. In addition to political decisions and budgetary arrangements, people, who can be supporters, create security, manage activities, be a hand in holding or performing demanding tasks in the support apparatus. We would not have done this without a great commitment to volunteering. For this reason, the government has also shown that it does not take volunteering as a matter of course, but actively facilitates the involvement of those involved in it, not paperwork and foreplay. Through concrete simplifications and free access to the Voluntary Register, the government has made it easier and more exciting to be voluntary. Voluntary activities create a good community environment and, of course, contribute far beyond their contribution to those in need of assistance from the support device. Sport, song and music, revision and theatre – the entire cultural field also benefits from the organisation that is now being done for volunteering. ‘Not too late’, has been a recurring claim from the Workers’ Party. If what this government is doing in these areas is 'not too late', yes, I have a lot of trouble finding words for the period before we got a new government. We obviously have different measurement parameters. In cultural policy, the red-green government was only concerned with money use. It gave the session administration but no increased culture usage. This government uses the money perfectly. It triggers commitment, creativity, increased support and increased use. It deserves Culture-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3169	Today came a good news. According to the World Bank, for the first time under 10 pst. of the world's population live in extreme poverty. Assistance and trade have contributed to economic development. Efforts at assembly, vaccines, nutrition and schooling have been important elements for development in many countries. Today, the poorer lives in middle-income countries than in poor countries, so good distribution policy is the key to combating poverty. Good distribution policy should also be one of our leading export products, but we should not increase the differences here at home. But even though the world is moving forward, millions of people experience insecurity and aggravation of security because of terrorism, countries that do not provide protection for their citizens, and lack of fundamental human rights. Norway is a humanitarian act, and I am pleased that the government now says it will propose an aid budget of 1 p.m. of gross domestic product. The greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II is now taking place in Syria and neighbouring countries. If they're to be helped, there's a need for more money. We must contribute, and I will give tribute to the government for the initiative of a donor country conference. But we also have to take our share of responsibility by accepting more refugees. Not everyone can be helped in neighbouring countries. As a small country, we depend on international law. When it's under pressure, we get more vulnerable. The strongest right doesn't serve us. Norway can contribute to many international conflicts. We do not always succeed, but we can play an important role whether it is in Guatemala, Colombia or the Middle East. We have also tried to contribute in South Sudan, but here we see a development that has only gone negative in recent times. We must always discuss our role in such conflicts, but we want to contribute. Although we are a small country, we shall continue to be a humanitarian power. We can also contribute militarily to creating security in troubled areas. In recent times, we have discussed our military contribution to Libya and how the security situation of the people who have been exacerbated. Experience shows the need for a thorough debate on the dilemmas of military engagement and how we can contribute to stability once we have entered into a conflict. This calls for increased presence in Afghanistan. In Iraq, we must constantly discuss whether our soldiers contribute to better security for the people, and whether the security of our soldiers is well taken care of. During this session, the treatment of professional military advice becomes a very important matter. Let it be clear: no part of the public sector has undergone a greater transformation than the Defence. The right has never helped to make the difficult decisions when the lot has been in opposition, either at the beginning of the millennium or in the two periods when the red-green government was sitting. So that right in this debate should present itself as a changeable – well, the defense is a very good example of the opposite. But there is a need to continue the changes in Defense. On the part of the Labour Party, we are interested in an agreement with the government on these difficult issues, for terror, for migration, for lack of stability and for cyberattacks create a need for a defence adapted to our times. Increased upgrading of our neighbor suggests that we must strengthen the defence in our neighbourhoods. But violations of international law and the lack of democratic development of our neighbours in the East cannot only be met with military responses. We have a self-interest in as much cooperation as possible with our neighbor in the east. Our starting point must be: how can we maintain the northern regions as a low-voltage area at a time of increased conflicts in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3184	We simplify, renew and improve Norway. We're cutting the waiting times in the health care system. We're expanding care with new places, while raising quality. Today, the government solves important tasks and equips Norway for the future. Norway has good welfare arrangements, but clear feedback from patients and users is that the services are often not linked. For some, welfare systems appear to be a multi-headed troll. For this reason, the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, should strengthen the social security network – for addicts, for those at risk of falling out of work, for children with complex needs and for vulnerable elderly people who do not receive adequate health services. But we also need to simplify, renew and improve the arrangements, so that they are linked and based on the needs of the user and patient. We simply need to create the patient's healthcare and ensure that children have a coherent offer. The biggest social inequality in our country is that addicts have an expected life expectancy that is twenty years shorter than the rest of the population. That's an inequality we can't live with. That is why the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together for a change of pace in the Russian policy. Before the elections, we presented the framework for a mandatory escalating plan for the drug field – a strengthening of 2.4 billion. kr versus 2020. In addition, the growth of specialised drug treatment comes. The government has reintroduced the golden rule, which was removed in the previous period, which ensures that hospitals prioritise drugs and mental health. We simplify, renew and improve patient rights and introduce the reform of free treatment choices. The reform strengthens the patient's rights and reduces unnecessary waiting. The first to take part in the reform are those who are addicted to drugs and those with mental health challenges when they start up during the fall. Health is primarily about mastering. Most people live all or part of their lives with a disease or disability. Quality of life is not only about own disease, but also about society facilitating an active and participatory life. That is why we have adopted the right to user-driven personal assistance. For many, this is the right that gives them the opportunity to become head of their own lives. BPA is just the light that makes the multi-headed troll crack. Poverty is both material and an experience. In a rich country like Norway, the last part is extra stressful, not least for children. Too many children live in poverty. It deprives them of opportunities and creates solitude. That is why the government has put forward a strategy against child poverty. The health of children and young people lasts for life. That is why we have provided a strong strengthening of health station and school health services, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In 2016, municipalities will have 650 million. kr more for this purpose than they had in 2013. Now we're starting to expand the offer with psychologists. Increased efforts on quality in kindergarten and school knowledge will create greater opportunities for all children, regardless of their parents’ background. Even if we bet on the youngest, we don't forget the oldest. In the care services, we know that even though a lot is good, there are too many people who do not get the services they need. Quality requires clear professionals with good competence. We have to make demands on the competence of the Health and Care Services Act. Prosthesis neutrality shall be removed. Capacity is not good enough, and competence is often too low. We have improved the funding mechanisms for new places of good luck. Since the government's accession, the rate of expansion in the municipalities has almost doubled. In health policy, we are well in the process of creating the patient's health service. Fewer waiting in a health queue, and they're waiting shorter. We've put in place a package schedule for cancer patients. The single-use doctors described by the cancer patient and Professor Per Fugelli must be removed. The matter has been raised for Stortinget, and I hope that this will be approved. We've done a lot, but more remains. It is important that we not only increase efforts to close the social security network, but also ensure that services for those who are most vulnerable in our society are also linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3226	I join much of what the Minister of Health is ramming up. I think it's very good that today's government does, for example. that the waiting times are going down slightly. There has been a trend over several years that is now continuing under today's government. But my small point was that when Bent Höie was here in Stortinget, there was no slight decline in the waiting times he promised as an opposition politician. I looked at one thing earlier today where he, among other things, stated that the private health insurance market would simply fall away from the right-hand choice, that is to say that people would be free to take out that kind of private insurance without reservation, because as Minister of Health, he had to take care of that. Now it's almost two years since Bent Höie became Minister of Health. What does he think about the progress for, among other things. This election promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3233	Progress is very good. During 2015, we introduced free treatment options, not only for drug use and mental health, as we promised before the 2013 elections, but also for a number of other hospital services. This makes it possible for those who are members of the public interest to choose from the available capacity of private individuals, in addition to the bidding regime that is the solution of the Workers' Party, to ensure that a person is given the opportunity to receive faster assistance without having to have an employer who has taken out private health insurance. I'm concerned that we have a publicly funded healthcare service that provides people with good and quick help, so that you don't get the impression that security in society is based on having a health insurance. That is why these reforms are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3240	All of this I've heard many times, the Health Minister has done this in Stortinget many times, and we're still wondering when this is coming. Now it's almost two years. Several of the attempts made by the Minister of Health have been so bureaucratic, and so much research capacity and resources have been used in the Ministry of Health to carry out an election promise that we have still not seen the content of, what is actually going to happen. That is why I want to repeat my question: Progress is one thing, but is Minister of Health Bent Höie standing in opposition to what he said that with the proposals he and his government are now making, will the market for private health insurance fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3245	The fact that the representative Torgeir Micasen has not seen anything about the reform of free treatment choices is quite surprising since it was adopted and dealt with here in the Stortinget. The instruments are soon to enter into force, and this means that patients will be able to choose to use private available capacity for approved health institutions in addition to the tendering regime, which is the Labour Party solution in this case, after that – contrary to the time when the Labour Party was set up by the Government. The results speak for themselves – fewer queues, and the waiting time is shorter. Not least, drug addicts are waiting considerably shorter now than when the Workers' Party crashed — in the vicinity of two weeks shorter before summer. Two weeks is a long time in a motivated addict’s life when a person wants treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3250	The Christian People's Party is pleased that, together with the government and the Left, we agree to give priority to the offensive strengthening of drug care and an obliging escalation plan in the drug field – not least for those who are struggling with a drug problem. Alcohol policy in a country will have an impact on the number of people in drug care. Research shows that price and availability are among the most effective means of pursuing a restrictive alcohol policy. The government has sent out a proposal — and received a response — to consult on the initial sale of alcohol over 4.7 p.p., in addition to the government increasing the tax-free quota last year. Does the Council see that this could result in a weakened and eroded wine monopoly and that the consequence could be an embellishment of the restrictive alcohol policy that Norway has been known for and has been pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3259	I fully agree with the representative of Bollestad that it is important that we also pursue a drug policy to prevent drug dependence and to prevent the public health challenge posed by alcohol and tobacco. That's why it's part of the government's policy, as it also emerges from the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to continue the main lines of alcohol policy. It still means high charges. It means regulated selling and giving times. That means a ban on advertising. And that means maintaining the Vinmonopole as a system. The system that opens up for farm sales does not threaten any of this. It also appeared in the hearing of the institutions researching the drug field that this represents such a small volume that it poses no threat to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3266	The Prime Minister has acknowledged that one of the reasons for the government’s election defeat was closure and fear of hospital closure. The medical association is clear that hospitals should contain surgical and medical emergency preparedness, anaesthesia, x-ray and laboratory. In their hospital address on 7 January this year, the Council of State stated that emergency surgery requires a patient base of at least 60000-80000 inhabitants. So half of our hospitals have too little patient base for emergency surgery. Most people experience that without emergency surgery, what is today called a hospital, soon a district medical center. My two questions are the following: 1) What has the Council of State learned from this by the election campaign and by the Right’s assessment of the election result? 2) Will the Council of State turn around in its work of removing emergency surgery, or will it just be a change of tactics?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3273	The Central Party has since January tried to get me to tell you in advance what the national health and hospital plan contains. It's getting closer. It is not long before the plan is promoted for Stortinget, and then the representative will also get answers to the questions he is asking here. What is clear, however, is that it is not appropriate for me to present a national health and hospital plan which means that half of the country’s local hospital is shut down. On the contrary. My main aim of a national health and hospital plan is to find a model that means that patients are guaranteed good quality of treatment, but not least that we have a spine of smaller hospitals throughout the country, which is present when it is urgent, for example. in connection with cardiac arrest and stroke. Should one have done as someone suggests, namely that all hospitals should have the breadth of surgery in order to be allowed to operate hospital emergency services, an experienced radical centralisation. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3282	The Council of State mentions a number of measures being taken by the government, and the Minister of Health is at a great pace. For the left, we're glad too much of what's going on. We have had a public health report during the year, and we are now up in the treatment of the primary care notification. In both of the two messages, the basic perceptions of sight and hearing are very small. Functionality is quite important no matter where you are in life, especially when you are small, and especially when you are older. The Ministry proposes to legislate on a number of health skills, while for example: Audiographs and opticians are largely left to us to go to ourselves, also to pay for large parts of those services. So the question is, when will the Council of State address these groups and these basic functions in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3289	I'm concerned that we're going to be more in our society that has both impaired vision and impaired hearing. It's a natural development as a result of our growing older society, and it's important that one then gets good deals. I feel that private offers we get from the optician are an important addition to the public, and we also have to expand our capacity to help people with hearing. It is part of a natural development of both primary and specialist health services. If the Left believes that there has been too little attention in the message that is being addressed in the Grand Duchy now, then I would like to welcome proposals from the Left in that debate, and that one takes it up with the representatives of the government parties in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3295	There was a post from Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen that made me think. She said that one noticed that the blues had taken over the dementia care, and it made me think about Orkerød's nursing home. It is the history of a nursing home that was landscaping for its dementia, which water praises for development and innovation. So, last year, the hospital was transferred to Norlandia for $8 million. kr more than what was budgeted for by the municipality itself. So, in August, thanked three of the medical doctors separately and said that the well-known competence that they had built up over 13 years had puzzled in one year. They had lost much of their competence through this bidding exercise, and Dr. Lorentz Nitter believes that this shows that dementia does not qualify for outsourcing. Does this not show the Minister that the Danish authorities are a non-proprietary area?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3302	We have major challenges in municipal care services because there is too much variation in quality. That's one of the reasons why we set up a quality register for these services, to get more knowledge about the variation, to get more transparency about it. At the same time, we also need to develop a security standard that provides the municipality with a concrete tool to ensure good competence, good manning, good quality, and we also come up with our own dementia plan. I am surprised that SV is able to reduce such a big and serious question to a public or private question. I myself have been visiting, for example. Good moments in a small municipality in Northern Ireland, privately run by idealists who previously worked in the public health service, who have gripped just what they experienced as a major challenge in their municipality, that there were not enough offers for people with dementia. They wanted to create Good Moments, and they do so through a private initiative. This is not about public and private matters, it is about quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3309	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3312	‘By and land – hand in hand’ – it is the Workers’ Party’s well-known slogan from 1933. Today, the Workers' Party is a party that is alive occupied by both the ‘city and the lyre of the village’, which we often sing in the ‘Forpost of Freedom’. Unlike both the Right Party and the Center Party, we know that bets on cities and bets in the districts are not contradictions, but that Norway's wealth and the possibilities we have lie exactly in all of our long country and in the interaction between the village and the city. The census of the year was good in many ways, and there is much that we might be able to do. But what was the census not taking up? Yeah, it was, among other things. to look at both the ‘city’ and the ‘home-building loop’, looking at the actual challenges facing the country, where welfare production takes place, where value creation takes place, where we have added teachers, where health sisters are to prevent abuse and bullying, where child protection is to work in the day-to-day environment, where fish are processed, where water power is flowing, and where agriculture gives us Norwegian food. This year’s speech was completely out of focus on district policy. The cities and our towns, with their particular challenges and possibilities, got very little attention. Area of the country where most people don't live, but where a lot of the value is done, the census didn't take up. We have a government that apparently does not see the challenges that lie in the vast North of Norway, in capital-poor Telemark or in many of our municipalities that have a slumped municipal fund. We've been cutting regional development funds for the last two years, which all those who know state politicians know we've been serious. We have seen too little investment in the local economy. In my municipality, Tokke, and in my county, Telemark, the income we get from the property tax on works and use is very important. For Telemark, this revenue is between 70 million. NOK 80 million. kr to welfare. The government has now proposed to remove the local government's right to print this tax. It's a very district hostile proposal, which I hope the supporting party will prevent. I think the government has to listen more. We saw it in the matter of the right of reservation. They finally came after a lot of pressure. The government wants Sunday-open shops, but it doesn't want employers' organisations and not employees' organisations, but it's probably where the ideological issues are going to be broken anyway. But they can't do this alone. The government has two support wheels here in Stortinget, in the Left and Christian People's Party. I just have to say that I was very disappointed when I read in the fall that the Christian People's Party might be willing to give up on this matter. I hope they don't. I think it's time, especially for the Christian People's Party, to consider what they have as a social and solidarity party to support a Right Party government. At least I don't see it, and I record that many of the local members of the Christian People's Party don't do it either. I think today's government is taking the country in the wrong direction and is a threat to the districts. In Telemark, we did not get a single vocabulary from the Right or Progress Party after the municipal election of the year. In Telemark, there are now only vocabularies from the Labour Party and the Center Party and one from the Left. I think that this municipal election and the result we now see in Telemark, which is a typical district party with urban and urban challenges, is a strong signal for today's government. You will find that the money is being misused incorrectly. One sits around in municipal government halls and sees that the money is spent on tax cuts, while one at the same time has to cut the welfare of its own municipality. One sees that centralization is what's most in, and the desire for commercialization is great. The Labour Party will use the action space in the Norwegian economy to invest in the future. Knowledge and possibilities for all must go ahead of tax cuts. Good urban economy provides better shelters and strengthened welfare arrangements. Cut taxes don't. We need a government that cares about the whole of the kingdom and about the ‘city and the lire of the people of the country’. Unfortunately, we don't have that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3331	This census points to the important challenges facing our country: the need for faster conversion than many had threatened just a few months ago, a refugee crisis in Europe that both the world community, our country and our local environment must face, and the implementation of important reform efforts to secure future for our citizens. The world is facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II – with 60 million people fleeing from war and conflict. We're going to take responsibility for the refugees, but Norway can't do this alone. Neither can Europe. The situation requires inter-continental effort and commitment. We need to help in Syria, in the neighbourhoods and here in Norway. The government has come up with a series of measures to support the countries that receive many refugees, the rescue operation in the Mediterranean and to fight the humanitarian crises that are forcing people to flee. Also here at home it will require a great deal of effort. Those coming will be integrated into schools, sports, workplaces and communities throughout the country. The job is not done when they come to the country; it is when he starts. We all have a responsibility to make a good offer and make the transition to a new life in Norway as simple as possible. It's very nice to see the commitment that people show to help those who come. Last year there were 7,784 refugees, i.e. 19 pst. more than in 2013. This is more than 20 years old, but still not enough to build up the rest of the building ready to receive. The IMDi has now sent letters of encouragement to all the municipalities in the country and asked them to busge refugees. So far, the municipalities have said yes to busing 11,000 refugees this year. The municipalities have a key role to play in this work, and this shows a very positive commitment in Norwegian municipalities. Right went to the choice that we need new ideas and better solutions to equip Norway for the future. We already knew years ago that we had a challenge with a two-part business life, and the time we're now in, shows how right we were. The oil price drop and the need for conversion came faster than anyone had expected. The census shows that the government will provide a budget for work, activity and conversion. This means focusing on knowledge, research and innovation, infrastructure and taxation. All of this will make Norwegian business more competitive and both speed up and facilitate conversion. For industry, it is particularly important to reduce taxes on enterprises, reduce taxes on wealth, extend the tax FUNN scheme and simplify the VAT system. This will give business more money to spend on creating jobs. In total, the government has implemented growth-promoting tax incentives and The new corporate tax will also contribute to conversion and motivate growth, both in business, in district municipalities and in central districts, by embracing municipalities that create more jobs. With the extensive efforts on high-recorded routes for highways, roads and road maintenance, the government meets several important aspects of the need for faster migration. In 2015, 10 billion will be used. kr more on road and rail than in 2013. This is an increase of 30 pst. in two years. Now the maintenance run goes down, and new roads are being built faster. Right wants a society with opportunities for everyone. That means that we need to step up our efforts to raise those who fall outside. This is one of the strongest driving forces in the reform work of the government in the local government sector. We need a municipal structure with municipalities that can solve today's and tomorrow's challenges by ensuring good welfare services and sustainable social development. There is a large number of people on Stortinget who want a community reform. The main line is voluntary, with the exception of coercion in specific cases where individual municipalities prevent an appropriate regional solution. A number of studies show that there are several municipal reforms among the inhabitants, local politicians and councillors. The parties who want a municipal reform in Stortinget have received about 85 pst. by the votes in the local elections, while the Central Party and SV, which are opposed to a municipal reform, have combined 12.6 pst. Therefore, the election result cannot be interpreted as a protest against the local reform, as some would like to make it. One implements a municipal reform because Norway has changed a lot since the 1960s. Therefore, this important work will continue with full strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3369	I'm hardly the only one who has noticed me the role Prime Minister Erna Solberg has engaged in the rising unemployment – a passive role, where she acts most like a tired mother who has no more to give the unemployed than a pat on her shoulders. When the AKU work solution reached 4.5 pst. In the middle of the election campaign, her comment to NTB was that the unemployed should not lose their courage. And when VG had a big report from Sunnmøre last week, her comment was, "My main message to all those who are now afraid of becoming unemployed is: You need it." When unemployment becomes too full, we expect something more from a prime minister. We expect her to do something about the permitting code without getting involved for sixteen years by LO, NHO and everyone else with insight into what the offshore economy actually means to people in the harshest part of the country. We expect that she is more busy learning from Norwegian experience in crisis management in recent times than rehearsing old teachings from the Young Right course in the late 1970s. We simply expect a Prime Minister to understand what the situation is about, and to put in place measures that take precedence over alleged measures such as bombs. When the government party has no answers, they are attacked by the Labour Party – so here too. We're going to be obliged not to understand the long-term challenges of conversion. However, it is not as the Prime Minister and other representatives of the Government Party claim that the conflict over the unemployment situation is between those who will only do something in the short term and those who understand the long-term need for change. The conflict stands between those who see the connection between the short-term and the long-term – that here one must do both and then act – and between those who in action reveal that they do not. It's about something so simple as that innovation doesn't just happen in garages and good rooms. Innovation takes place to the highest degree in the companies, in the clusters, in daily meetings between people in the same professional environment. Therefore, it is not good conversion policy to send everything of engineers and other skilled people to Nav on the first occasion. Although it's a lot of fun to think of with two empty hands, it's not a good transition policy to just rely on it. Good conversion policy is to provide a public boost to keep the professional environment intact, so that businesses can maintain their skills and keep the wheels running, with a law of permancy that is adapted to the situation, with public missions such as a forced renewal of the ferry fleet and with a policy towards the offshore industry that makes the oil companies use this period to study wells and carry out maintenance work that is easily pushed into more busy times. Yes, we have a widespread founding spirit on Sunnmøre, and she we are proud of. We may not be as familiar with humor, but the story of the lost sun-moment that submerged on a bare hollow in the middle of the sea and started building furniture factories is at least one attempt. But that's a joke. That's not true. Unless this infantry had been the mountains of someone, he would have died, like other people. The prayers of higher market forces had not helped him in this situation either. Even the most initiative-rich and industrious Westerner needs forward-looking policies at national level. It was e.g. as the Norwegian oil adventure started, which is not over. The race was made by people who understood that market forces are the tools that humans can use, not the other way around. The need for wise and forward-looking economic governance is the same in the phase we are now in. The error it would be to leave the market dogger to take over is as big as he would have been 45 years ago. Of course, we're very excited about the state budget. If the list is created by the budget a year ago, it is difficult to see a complete disk bomb. But people who fear unemployment should expect something more than new million gifts to Olav Thon and a tired message to keep up the courage.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3384	The speakers who will have the floor today will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3387	On a number of important issues, the Right/Forward Party government has indicated that they do not listen to the people. The right of reservation mobilised tens of thousands in March 8th. The Working Environment Act led to a general strike. And no one I've talked to like Sunday-open shops, not less paper. Even if the Progress Party, a party that may initially be opposed to equality, has the Minister for Gender Equality, they should listen to the people. They want to call themselves the party most. Most people want an equal society, most people want paperwork, and most people want to have equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of sex. A big message called Equalization does not come from itself, was provided by the previous government. She looked at the possibilities ahead, how we could carry on our good work on equality. But this government has chosen to drag the whole message over. They were supposed to come with a message of their own. There have been two years without us seeing or hearing anything about equality. What does the government really want? They write so nicely in the statement that they will work to reduce the gender-based labour market. But what have they done? To date, I have not seen a single measure or instrument to do anything about it. It is still the case that young people are given training councils based on gender. If you are a girl and you are not going to go to study specialization, you are advised on health, design or hairdresser, while boys in the same situation are advised on car, electro or mechanics. Some places, fortunately, happen positive things, but then it depends on the fire cells. No one is responsible for gender equality either in the municipalities or in the county municipalities – and clearly not in the government either. One thing is that the Minister for Gender Equality from the Progress Party is not so busy with equality. But right, then, which is the largest party in the government, what do they want? Is it okay for Right that equality is put on hold - yes, simply in reverse? Where has it been of Right's women's political leader? Before the fallout, we saw her in all channels. Has she now ensured better equality in school and kindergarten, has she ensured better gender distribution in power positions? She sits no in the Prime Minister's office and has the opportunity to implement. There is a difference between the right and the left. Julie Brodtkorb himself said to Political Quarter last year: "We're still there in the 1800s. We agree with the objectives, but there is a complete disagreement in the instruments that the instruments for the citizens are incentives and positive instruments. [[...]] There are differences, but the objectives are much the same." What we look forward to is an overview of the results obtained as a result of positive instruments and incentives after two years in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3405	At first I have to say that it is a little fun when the representative Kolberg is surprised that the government is conducting right-wing policy, something else would have been directly exceptional. The Trontale carries a command for significant future-optimism. Norway has a fantastic starting point. In 2008, the black swan sailed into the economy. The consequences were great – it came completely unexpected. A year ago the same thing happened, the oil price fell to $50 – it was also completely surprising in any professional environment. After all the sun brands, regardless of the evolution of the oil price, the level of activity in the oil industry will not be as high as it is today. No industry can be scaled up to take the place that the oil industry currently has. The policy objective must, of course, be to safeguard the competences, develop competences and distort competences in sectors that need them, inter alia. an active fiscal policy. The country's main means of creating activity, conversion and work is actually the tax system. The state budget and the tax notice that is now coming will be a test piece at the Workers' Party. The test piece will consist of whether the batch will continue its unilateral approach to the tax system and the effect of the tax system. The working party has been notoriously involved in the tax system as a redistribution system, and not in the effect of the tax system on production and the resulting loss of efficiency in policy. In this way, Bjørdal’s posts were a classic of what the Workers’ Party has been aiming at in terms of fiscal policy in the last two years. It's been like talking to a rock. People who have built a fortune from zero are stigmatised by the Workers' Party. Ukmömsword and hanging is the thank you. It is a fact that taxes and taxes change people's behaviour and adaptation. The economy suffers a loss of efficiency and it is proven that the loss of efficiency is more than proportional to the increase in the level of taxation itself. Work has created Norway, and work will shape Norway in the future. For this reason, the government is so committed to using the State instruments in which it can make a difference, namely at infrastructure, tax level and education. 5 000 teachers have been offered further training. The road maintenance, the track maintenance left out from the red-greens, is now in the process of being picked up. Finally, a key element of any responsible economic policy will be to keep an eye on vulnerable groups and those who need a safety net. There are still many that are not caught up, and there the government has presented a strategy, and there will be more... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3420	Now it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3423	... proposals for new welfare schemes for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3429	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3432	We're going to meet an exciting harvest. The highest on the environmental policy agenda is climate policy, and the late-harvest Paris summit will be very important. I am pleased with the willingness to act that is present, and the breadth of the commitment that we are now seeing. It's really taken too much time to get there. The job would have been easier, if not easier, if we had listened when the first warnings came. The political environment, including in Norway, bears a shared responsibility for the fact that it has only been the last years that action has begun. Some people bear this responsibility to a greater extent than others, and there are still those who refuse to accept that the climate change we are now seeing is man-made, and that it is in our own interests as well as in the interests of the future generations that we are doing something about it. We're the generation that can actually do something about this, and it would be a shame to go into the history books as the generation that didn't do what they could. That is why we are pleased with the broad climate agreements we have had here in Stortinget, and that these are an important part of Norway's position in the negotiations in Paris. It is equally challenging that some other environmental issues have come to the fore when the important climate debate has been the big issue for many years. The job has not been completed, neither as regards the protection of natural habitats nor as regards the diversity of species. We are therefore also responding to the announced announcement of biodiversity with great interest. Protection of species diversity is not an exercise for particularly interested people, but a shared responsibility that is much at stake for all of us. The Christian People's Party has today tabled a proposal for a representative on a national strategy for wild bees and pollination, which created a certain amount of excitement here in the Chamber. But this is an example of a case in which food supplies may be threatened in the long term because of the unintended effects of positive progress, including: in agricultural forms. We need to tackle this, talk loudly and honestly about – and act. I am delighted to see cross-political action.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3441	We have now left behind two rich years in the United Kingdom, thanks to a government that, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has met a number of challenges for Norway. There has now been a decade of historical growth and similar opportunities to rust Norway for the future. In light of that, it's interesting if the previous government used these possibilities in a good way. When school dropouts are the same, when health cows increased and more and more bought private health insurance, when still one in five cannot read and write well enough after primary school, when the decay of the national and county roads grew, and the division of the Norwegian economy grew, yes, the opportunity was not seized. We thus naturally have a longer way to go today than what had been necessary had we started working on conversion earlier. Fortunately, the new government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has contributed to a new political course with a series of efforts so that our welfare society can meet the future in a good way. Together, we provide the basis for work, activity and migration in Norway. The Prime Minister started today at the Business College BI with a lecture on precisely work, activity and conversion, and the message was clear: ‘We should think that in the future we should be as well known internationally for our ability to research and innovation as we are for mountains, fjords and good welfare schemes.’ It was an important reminder. I am therefore proud of the great efforts we have made so far together on the civil side. We're lifting the professions and increasing the apprenticeship grant historically a lot in a short time. We're further training almost three times as many teachers as we did just under two years ago. We're strengthening the health wards by 650 million. kr and strengthen early participation in childhood. We're increasing the focus on school management, and we're strengthening the advice. We create patients' health services, play along with all the good forces and reduce health cows. For the first time in a long time, the maintenance seat suspension on the national roads goes down and the county roads are given an extension lift and a bet. We use digital forms, simplify rules, eliminate demands and increase local self-government, so that several good solutions can be found locally. Thousands of hours of work have already been saved and smarter solutions have been found – to our delight. This and much more we're going to continue, because it's about our kids who learn through play in kindergarten, who meet an enthusiastic teacher, or those of us who got a good meeting with the health care system when cancer diagnosis was a fact. In meeting the future, Norway needs to dry up its efforts to build the country, convert it to safe jobs and ensure its well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3461	When I heard the previous post description of eight red-green years, I'm glad that we all came well through it. In my view, the government's management of the situation in the Norwegian industry, and especially in the oil and gas industries, has been bad to look at. Firstly, over time, the government has ignored the signals about the severity of the situation. Even now, it doesn't seem that the government has taken serious care of itself. There is a crisis in parts of Norwegian business, and there is a crisis affecting the most profitable part of Norwegian business. The supplier industry and parts of the maritime sector are particularly hard hit. Secondly, I believe that the management of the crisis has been critical. The government, without any plan, has leaked parts of the package of measures in the media through the election campaign. My question is: If the package of measures was completed, why was it not presented in its entirety, so that the business community could adjust to the content of it? To me, it looks like the government has taken into account the Right and Advance Party election campaign in front of Norwegian business and those who are now losing their jobs, and I believe it shows a lack of respect and understanding for both companies and workers who are now affected. The difference from Stoltenberg II's handling of the financial crisis is very big and very easy to see, because then one had a joint press conference, got the message out, and the business knew what one had to do with. It is also worth recalling that the Right and Advance Party partially won the government power in 2013 on a false message that the previous government did not care about the West. Now it is time for this government to wake up and start caring, to come up with powerful instruments and to recognise that thousands of unemployed people in the West are in crisis. The lack of understanding of the seriousness of the situation was also evident when, in a debate on TV2 in the election campaign, the Minister of Agriculture presented Sunday-open shops as measures to create tens of thousands of new jobs. Firstly, the Minister of Agriculture used the figures from Fafo incorrectly — that is to say nothing new. Worse still, the government will replace extremely profitable jobs in oil and gas with less efficient trade in clothing and food. I would like the government to take the challenges of Norwegian business more seriously, acknowledge that parts of the business world are in the midst of a crisis, and take clear action. The centre party will focus clearly in the harvest on business and value creation, and we expect the four parties in the blue alliance to be aware of the demands of the Centre Party, to support an increased commitment to an active industrial policy and to address the crisis in the middle of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3478	To the representative Pollestad, it's just not safe for everyone to get well from eight years with a red-green handlebar, and an example of this can be the road maintenance run that just increases and increases. One should not run many meters on the road until one sees that not all of them are healthy. This year, 50 years have passed since the petroleum industry started on a Norwegian base and introduced a time of growth and increased employment. Large petroleum revenues and high productivity in the mainland economy have made it possible to expand well-being more than in other countries. We've also saved for future generations. However, the oil industry and its related industries are currently facing major challenges, mainly due to very low oil prices and oversupply in relation to demand. The significant decline in oil prices has led to investment droughts and the release of very many projects on land and sea. This has led to secessions, and ships and rigs are in storage along the entire coast. However, there has never been a greater demand for oil and gas, and Norway will still take out large quantities of oil. In the debate on migration, it is important that we do not fall into the trap of talking down this important industry and its employment effects. Norway will supply oil and gas for the next 50 years and probably new 50 years after that. We have to be at the forefront of technological development, and that's exactly what this industry is supposed to provide, so that we can still be the country that produces oil and gas with the lowest possible emissions. The right-wing party government shall therefore continue to strengthen the organisation of technological and industrial growth and development in the State budget, as we have done in the previous two years. Furthermore, there will be increased investment in technology development within the petroleum industry also in the north, by 15 million. kr in fresh funds for the DEMO 2000 programme. We know that the north will be of great importance for this sector for years to come, and there are high expectations relating to new findings there. 2015 will represent a turning point for global climate cooperation with a decisive meeting in Paris in December. But even in climate policy, we need to give priority to good and bad projects, especially in this time of high unemployment. Then it's more important with carrot over whip. Examples are: lower car charges that enable consumers to buy environmentally friendly, safe cars without costing road and rail Shirt bets to remove bottlenecks and facilitate more environmentally friendly transport bets further on technology development and research and alternative energy sources, and expand profitable hydropower look at international measures in the same way as Norwegian measures. This is a global challenge that needs to be solved internationally, not by Norway alone. One must also continue with rainforest exposure, etc. This is good and concrete climate action that we know monars. The Progress Party will pursue a climate policy based on reason and a simpler everyday life for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3515	It says in the nostalgic language: ‘The government will accept the refugees in a good way.’ Yes well – but it is in stark contrast to the statements of Minister of Finance Siv Jensen when she clearly asks the municipalities of the country to say no to settle refugees. The spouse of double communication shall be searched for a long time. It is unyielding and does not create the necessary understanding when faced with a refugee crisis in Europe, as we see it. I represent myself a state that is historically known for loosing refugees. From 1940 to 1945 many Norwegian refugees were helped to Sweden, and the Swedes accepted. Now the flow of refugees enters Eastfold, into Norway. Therefore, it is important to clarify from the Minister of Finance here in Stortinget whether she is at her invitation to Norwegian municipal government representatives that they should say no to settle refugees, in order to be able to torpedo the Syria agreement. I myself have been in Italy recently and seen with my own eyes how they accept the refugees they have picked up in the Mediterranean. These refugees were not allowed to sleep in the street until they received medical first aid, food, shower and necessary bed. That the government has not been able to find a solution in terms of the queue of the Police Foreign Unit on the Tøen here in Oslo, is directly poor political craftsmanship and very far from the government's own line of reasoning, as previously referred to. Then I read on in the throne and read the word ‘conversion’ eleven times on a couple of A4 pages, as if the government has found out that Norway has to change. But those with a longer life span than today's government in this country see that Norway has changed at an increasing pace in the last hundred years. 350,000 jobs were created under red-green management. Two thirds of these came in the private sector. That was good, and it was necessary. Norway must continue to convert, but the tools must follow. Then the government must include the social partners in the team, then the municipalities must be included in the team, and the government's ability and willingness to listen to people other than themselves must be greater than we have experienced in the changes in the work environment law and in the debate on Sunday open shops, to mention something. The government is talking about community and that through work we contribute to the community. This sounds good, but it's mostly on paper. We have repeatedly seen in budgets and in proposals from the current government that there are large tax cuts that are the most important, no more money for the community. We have a government that is little listening, and that essentially won't listen to anyone but itself. It is only clear that this government, with its policy, is taking Norway in the wrong direction and is using the economic freedom of Norway to strengthen the richest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3540	For most of us, a safe workplace is the factor that gives us the most well-being. That way, we can take care of ourselves and our closest. We're part of a community, and we feel valuable. Work, activity and migration are important not only for Norway as a nation, but also for individuals who make up our society. That is why I am very pleased that the government has just put a heavy emphasis on new ideas and new solutions to equip Norway for the future and to facilitate more and safer jobs. As a state politician in Trøndelag, I see how incredibly important the government's commitment to transport is. We now get a new E6 through Tøndelag, and a new freight terminal has been decided to be located south of Trondheim. We've got a much better train service through Trondheim, and a large-scale upgrading of the railway through Trøndelag is inside the plan. In addition, the government has increased transfers to the county roads far above what had been included in the plan, in the NTP. With a steady follow-up of the NTP we should have granted approx. 2 billion. DKK of three years in direct appropriations for the county roads. With what is outlined will come into the budget for 2016, we are a little over 3 billion. kr. In addition, the tunnel protection appropriations and the loan framework become available through the interest-rate compensation scheme. More money for county roads leads to more maintenance and construction of new roads. It increases employment here and now in the construction industry, which is an important counter-cyclical measure for the decline in the supply industry to the oil and gas industry. We also get the roads built faster and more complete than parted and divided – and with that more way for the money. In my encounters with people and business, be it at Røros, in Trondheim or in Fröya, better ways and communication are being developed as the most important measures for people to live in the county, and for businesses to expand or establish. It has been repeated several times today from this pulpit that it is important to use the whole country and use the resources we have, given that the country needs more legs than oil and gas. The government’s opening up to increased production in the aquaculture industry is an example of such a measure. That is why I am very pleased that the government is just betting on what is demanded from people and businesses: better and safer roads and good communication. In this way, we get larger and more robust housing and work regions. Cities and countries are bound together, and the distance between business and R & D environments is shorter. We get more and safer jobs in both the short and long term. In this way, we will equip Norway for the future and ensure the welfare of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3555	It is a historic day today, if not for Norway, then at least for the countries of the Pacific region. Tonight, the United States, Japan, Vietnam and nine other Pacific countries finally came to know more about a new trade agreement, the so-called Trans-Pacific Partnership. After many years of negotiations, there is now a new agreement in place, which totals 40 pst. by the economy of the world. It is estimated that the agreement will phase out around 18 000 different customs tariffs and generate growth in both developed and less developed countries. It contains equal rules for the protection of copyright. He's opening up the Internet in the Vietnam Communist dictatorship. He knocks down the smuggling and exploitation of endangered animal species, the fight against illegal fishing. He ensures a strong regulatory framework on environmental issues and obliges all parties to comply with ILO standards when it concerns labour rights, the working environment and the prohibition of child labour and forced labour. TPP is hardly perfect, and it is a Finnish compromise that is now halting with President Barack Obama as the most important driver. First of all, one should naturally wish that the Doha Round had moved forward in the WTO and that one could have a free trade agreement covering the whole world. It has proved impossible, at least not yet, and in the absence of WTO liberalisation there is reason to rejoice that regional agreements will be put in place. I wanted to mention the good news, because it contrasts so sharply with some of the speeches we have heard from this pulpit today, especially from representatives of the Central Party, who can hardly use strong enough words to describe what an accident it is about globalisation, trade and cross-border relations. On a day like this, we'll be glad that the Center Party doesn't exist in or govern any of the countries around the Pacific, even though they have faithful senses, such as Donald Trump, who again has several populist voices on the outer flutes that have taken up the issue of today's agreement. That TPP is now in place, also put a lot of pressure on Norway. There will probably be new impetus in the negotiations for a US-EU trade and investment agreement that could have a decisive impact on Norwegian business. The particular seafood industry depends on the best possible access to the European and US markets. If we were to end up standing on the sidelines, it would be very serious for jobs all over the country. The important thing here, however, is not the individual country or industry, but that the world gradually becomes a freer place to live. With freer cross-border flows, which create values and well-being, there is every reason to enjoy the new TPP agreement and hope that as we live along the Atlantic, we too can soon get a similar and at least as progressive agreement. Since globalisation accelerated early in the 1990s, the number of poor people in the world has fallen by 1.2 billion. These developments are not due to the fact that each country is shutting itself down behind more and more walls, but by the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3570	The right went to the elections with promises of new ideas and better solutions to arm Norway for the future. We are now well in the process of implementing measures to meet the great and necessary need for conversion. Important measures taken are increased commitment to transport, school and higher education. We have focused on research and innovation for a competitive business with safe jobs even after oil. In particular, the government’s commitment to health and care and other welfare systems that are of great importance to individuals are important. Right wants a society with opportunities for everyone. Then the effort to lift those who fall outside must be strengthened. This is done by the government reintroducing the rule that health businesses should give priority to drugs and mental health — a rule that the red-greens have removed. We are increasing the number of health sisters in the school health services and psychologists in the municipalities, and we have reinstated mental health in the school – another scheme that the red-greens have removed. In the introduction of free treatment options, the government prioritises drugs and mental health. We are now presenting an escalating plan for drug use, and the primary health service report announces a legalisation of the municipal responsibility for psychological competence. All of these grips are a continuation of a policy we started last Right in Government. At the time, we made sure that people with drug problems were covered by the Patient Rights Act. Now we're further expanding our rights through free treatment choices. It is therefore sad that the Workers' Party will reverse the scheme and deprive these patients of the right to free treatment. The Rusmis users’ association has called it ‘heart-eight’. Loneliness can be as harmful as smoking, said Health and Care Minister Bent Höie when the government provided the Public Health Communication. Good communities can be the main vaccine against loneliness and mental distress. Psychiatric health has therefore been raised for the first time as an equivalent part of public health policy, and we are strengthening voluntary efforts in this area. The government’s escalation plan for the drug field shall provide an overall boost for one of the most vulnerable patient groups. Too many start the toughest job when drug treatment is over. We therefore need to ensure that the services in the municipalities are improved. It is not just about health care. It's about help finding a place to live, help getting to work or school, help building a restless life. The most important thing about spending on drugs and mental health is what comes out of it for the individual patient. What does it mean to choose treatment options? What does it mean to release long waiting time for vital treatment? And what does it mean for young people to get a health sister or a psychologist to talk to about the difficult things in life?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3587	Norway experienced a financial crisis — and managed relatively well through it. Now the country is experiencing a new serious situation with a background in falling oil prices. None of these crises can be left to any government, but the most important thing is that we have a government that takes the challenge seriously. An economy for Norway in the future that is not so oil dependent is important to convert to. This job has started on the right, and the government will provide a budget for work, activity and conversion. But this job should have started a long time ago and already during the financial crisis. Turning the clock back and reverse important changes that rustle Norway for the future is a bad option. It is sad to record the concern that the oil crisis has created both for business and for individuals affected. It's important that we take this seriously, and the government does. It is good to say that Nordic countries do not experience the same increase in unemployment as in parts of Rogaland and the West. Nordland has a varied business life. We have powerful industries, we have mining, aquaculture, seafood, fisheries, agriculture and trade, to mention something. Here, growth can continue if the government’s proposals for different measures are met. Many positive feedback from business on the new policy provided by this government has been received in terms of both framework conditions and transport. To take the last one: Here the government has already delivered a lot, and continues to deliver. Investments have increased and highways are maintained, so that maintenance facilities are finally brought down. In addition, subsidies for county roads have shot in the weather. I want to give you a very small overview of the bets of times on the Norwegian roads from this government: It is more than a doubling of national road investment to the national section, from approx. 1 billion. kr per year under the red-green to over 2.5 bn. kr in the year under the current government. The government is 50 pst. above the planned red-green level of grants to county roads. It has so far given North Norway 200 million. kr more. We're not just following adopted NTP, we're giving big bets beyond NTP. With the previous government, 22 projects in the NTP were delayed for various reasons, including: non-appropriations. In Northern Norway, three projects were delayed due to significantly lower appropriations, including: E6 Helgeland South and E6 Brattås-Lien. It is important to continue with what works: improving the framework conditions for business and strengthening the commitment to transport. In this way, we will ensure both growth in employment and viable local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3613	President Obama recently quoted Gorbachev and said, ‘History will Punish those who act too late.’ We in Norway need to tighten up. We've let too many possibilities go. The EU has reduced greenhouse gas emissions – we have increased. Canada has been given carbon handling and storage. We gave up. Sweden has developed a bioeconomy. We deliver raw materials to them. It is well known that Norway needs to change. This is not such a big job as someone scares us to believe, well, notice if we here in Stortinget allow such a conversion. The Norwegian business community has not slept, the Swedish Research Council has not slept, although it may be difficult to see all the results of the skills available in universities, in industry and in sprouts that have not yet started to grow. We have the competence to carry out large projects. We have leading competence in energy and process, material, drilling and marine technology. This can be used for products, materials and solutions for the low-carbon society, such as solar, grid, bio and environmentally friendly energy for transport, not least for the maritime sector. We here in the Storting have things to do: Nordics have hundreds of billions of pension funds standing as savings in insurance corporations and pension funds. These significant economic resources have been decided by the Storting that we cannot use to invest in long-term infrastructure. We have to change this. More capital must be channelled into profitable, long-term infrastructure development. Everyone knows that the Storting has decided that new companies that are not in tax position and are looking for petroleum will receive 78 pst. grants and thus placed in the same position as those in the tax position. This has led to more exploration for petroleum and growth in the detection rates. Similar schemes have not been created for other sectors and for natural resources, where Europe has a significant deficit. Norway has unique competence in the power-intensive and mineral-processing industries. We have surpluses of renewable energy, and we are in the world front in materials technology. We have an important tool that we're using too little, and it's the Guarantee Institute, GIEK, how close to 90 pst. the obligations relate to the petroleum and shipping industries. The size has not been able to contribute to the development of schemes that could provide sufficient traction to our other industries and industries, including in renewable sectors such as hydropower and solar power. It'll be absolutely necessary in the years to come. Not least, we have to wipe out perverse subsidies, subsidies that make it profitable to engage in activity that brings us further into a non-permanent dependency. It is important that, as politicians, we do not believe that choosing technology is our job, but we must vigorously facilitate the success of those who can contribute – locally, nationally, regionally and globally. We have to do that here, in Stortinget, and we have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3641	In 2005, the red-green government came to the table. When the Bondevik II government took over in 2001, the oil price was less than $20, and the interest rate was 7 pst. When the Stoltenberg II government took over the government offices in 2005, the interest rate was below 2 p.m. and the oil price had risen to 50 dollars in 2005. The Centre-Right government, despite the low oil price, had led Norway from pessimism to optimism. In 2013, the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government offices. We didn't come to the deck table. The legacy of the Stoltenberg government is a lack of knowledge and increased health cows. There has been a decline in investment in the competitiveness of the future and an economy vulnerable to the fluctuations in the oil price. There is also a formidable lag in maintenance in the transport sector. The highways have a aftermath of between 31 and 47 billion. kr, the county roads have a aftermath of 45 to 75 billion. kr, and the railway has a lag of 17 billion. kr. This is now turning around. Today’s government has granted more for maintenance than the previous government plan — in particular, tunnel maintenance is a priority. The government also reintroduced the interest compensation scheme for the counties. In the debate, the opposition called for new reforms in the census. I can reassure you that a number of reforms are already under way, which are now under development and implementation. In the transport sector, we have, among other things: a rail reform, a road reform and a toll reform. Some of the main challenges in transport are planning capacity and planning time. There has therefore been a sharp increase in appropriations for planning, but there has also been a simplification of planning processes. In this context, I would like to point out that it has been possible to reduce the planning time also in the current legislation. The government has shown this by being active. The impact assessment of 13 projects has been cut, and decisions have been made on CVTs along the E39 in Hordaland, in Sogn and Fjordane, in Møre and Romsdal, as well as on freight terminals in Trondheim and in Bergen. This government has launched many measures to improve Norwegian competitiveness. Norway is an expensive country to produce, but the solution is not to be the cheapest, but to become the smartest. Therefore, the government is giving more priority to nutrient research, tax relief to Norwegian enterprises and faster road and rail construction. We are investing in green solutions today to take the management of the green shift in the future. This government is to lead the country – from dawning pessimism to new optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3667	There is a distinction in industrial policy between us and the opposition, as well as in today's debate. There is no distinction in understanding that it is value creation and business practice that is important for the welfare model, where we all agree, but there is a distinction in understanding what should be the role of business. There I think we see a clear difference. In understanding what makes business more competitive, I also believe that we see a big difference. When the left-hand side tells us that only they can change business, we say on the right-hand side that the policy should facilitate conversion. When we point to the right-hand side that the property tax can be a small appropriate tax from a conversion perspective, it is in recognition that a company needs resources to convert to it. What makes the Workers' Party and others on the left believe that a company with Norwegian ownership is strengthened in competition by the fact that the tax is harder than the neighbouring company owned by foreign owners, well, we have problems understanding that on the right-hand side. This is based on a completely different understanding of what it means to own an enterprise, what it means to have responsibility for employees and to compete in a more and more international market than we have. We are responding to an increased framework for SkattenFUNN when the Workers' Party tells them to do more research in the business community. We say increased frameworks for the user-driven innovation arena when the Workers' Party is talking about innovative businesses. I'm going to make this more concrete by pointing to the seafood industry. In the programme for this period and in our own maritime food communication, we warned that the tool for sustainable growth in aquaculture had to be more predictable and more objective concession award legislation – all to major protests from the Labour Party in the mass election campaign two years ago. The certainty that investing in research and development ensures predictable growth and value creation, triggers business research – and in cooperation between enterprises and research institutions. Fortunately, this premise got full support in this room when we dealt with the aquaculture message in June – even from the Workers' Party. Then we look a little bit big on the fact that they came a little late. Finally, I want to make the third and most important perspective of this picture visible. Norway's main contribution to the world's food production is not, in fact, the number of salmon we can produce, but the knowledge of producing food from the sea we're developing, and can contribute to a growing world population that needs more and more food. This is the result of having a marine nutrition industry that gets a framework for researching more, which gets a framework for developing into a world-class industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3680	Revenue from oil and gas has given Norway unique opportunities to create the welfare state we have, and it still gives us a unique economic freedom of action. What we have to do is use the expertise we have in oil-related activities when we turn into a greener track. It is therefore positive to hear the government's signals that green investment will be prioritised in what will be involved and boost business in the future: knowledge, research and innovation. It's been a long time since the Left started talking about and working with the green shift. That is why we are pleased that the government has recognised this need and is working on it. But there's got to be a lot more work to do. Today, for example, Norway is ranked 33rd over attractive countries for renewable efforts. That's not good enough. Through contact with representatives of the marine-based industry we have in Norway, I keep track that the same industry is ready to face the challenge with greener demands. This is why we have pointed out that zero emissions from ferries, coastal cargo ships and fast boats must be required by 2030. It is necessary to introduce a new zero-emission technology bidding scheme for new ferry offers from 2016 and to develop land and LNG infrastructure in parallel. Offshore equipment is now in the midst of a difficult market situation. Ships are placed in charge, and seafarers must leave their jobs. This situation also has dramatic ring-fences for neighbouring activities, yes, for the whole community. We all have a responsibility to face this situation with the greatest seriousness. The government has a special responsibility. The communities affected have a particular need for positive incentives. More than ever, we need transport projects that can link housing and labour market regions more closely. In my part of the country, we need the ferry-free E39 throughout More and Romesdal, and we need Nordøyvegen as we need the Trollheim connection. The maritime sector, fisheries and aquaculture, yes, the entire marine sector, will become even more important for the Norwegian economy – for our future well-being. If we do well, we will be able to have a multiple of the value creation in wild fish, farmed fish and new marine species together. This would be good for Norwegian export value, for workplaces and for coastal communities. Within wild fish, the Left will have a further investment in resource and stock research. Marine farming has become one of our most important industries, especially salmon farming. There is a broad consensus in the Stortinget on aquaculture policy. In addition to a positive consensus on opportunities in industry, the consensus is that the industry has a significant job to do in order to cope with the escape of fish, chemical use and excessive lice in fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3695	Solving the conflict that drives people is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It's about working to resolve international conflicts that are often complicated, while helping the people affected. Norway has a tradition and credibility to resolve international conflicts, both as a facilitator and as a broker. It is easy to forget at a time like this that Norway has also been in a situation where we need help from others. Then others showed us roughness. Now we can show generosity to those who need it the most. As is often the case in international conflicts, women and children are hit hardest. It is serious primarily because it destroys life, but also because a generation of people did not get to build up the country they came from. The Children’s Convention was adopted by the United Nations in 1989. There is reason to remember that this obliges the world's country to take special care of children when there are wars and conflicts. We have seen many examples in recent years of non-compliance in practice. Children are entitled to a safe childhood, and children are entitled to a family that takes care of them. Now there are people running to Norway. It will be a challenge for Norwegian municipalities, but at the same time we have seen individuals in the same municipalities that set up more than ever. We need a national effort for those people who come to us and need help. For some children, a new kosebamse as a substitute for the one lost in flight may be important. Norway is facing challenges in a changing labour market. The oil sector is not necessarily the driving force of the Norwegian economy in the future. Therefore, it will be important to focus on work, activity and conversion, as the government does. Work provides economic security for individuals, but also ensures the welfare of the future. Change is about meeting the challenges of the future now. A good example of this is the Right bet at school and also research. Therefore, it is important that the College of Eastfold develop as a regional competence centre for learning, research and innovation in cooperation with the business community of the region. Last week, the Chief of Defense presented his professional-military advice. This will form the basis for a new debate on defence and security policy based on new challenges locally and globally. The government takes national security seriously and wants to meet the challenges of the future. National security is also regional security. It is now important to strike the balance between good regional solutions and a defence to address future security policy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3712	Perhaps the most important task of the Storing must be to provide security for the inhabitants of our country by having a strong deterrent defence to deal with possible threats from outside, and by having a police equipped to provide security and security for the citizens of our country on a daily basis, in view of unfortunate or dangerous situations that arise both nationally and locally. On the foreign policy arena, the NATO alliance has been Norway's security anchor party from 1949, and the alliance has been a good security measure since the last world war, both in the time of the cold war and after the cold war was blown off. The security policy situation in Europe, and also in other continents, has changed. One may mention Russia’s international law violations in Ukraine, the unrest in the Middle East, including in particular the extremely brutal behaviour of the IS in Syria, and the various ugly acts against humanity on the African continent. In a time of rapidly changing security policy challenges, it is important that defence has the necessary capacity and means to adapt to the threats and challenges of our time that have always arisen. Unfortunately, the defence capabilities have been reduced over very many years and thus the ability to adapt quickly to the new challenges of time. The Chief of Defense's professional-military advice, just presented, says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Important parts of the defence structure lack the response and endurance required by the major changes around us.’ It is now important to create a correct understanding of the situation, so that the defence is built up to become the relevant first line defence for NATO in Norway to ensure the receipt of allied support. The Professional Military Council of the Armed Forces, which is a response to a mission letter from the Minister of Defence, suggests the closure of a number of current departments and bases to adapt the defence to the changed defence and security policy situation, where some of the conversions may initially appear problematic. The government must be very grateful for the undefiled professional-military advice provided by the Defence, so that one can get the best possible up-to-date understanding of the situation of the defense of our own defence. It is great that the government will continue to work to strengthen the operational capability of the defence, and it is announced the presentation of a long-term defence plan for the spring. I look forward to this, and I hope that the long-term plan will be well-treated and comprehensive in the Grand Duchy, so that we can have a defence for the future that is capable of responding well to the new security challenges of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3734	We're all concerned with the increasing unemployment in oil-related industries. Standing without work is serious for those affected. This is why it is so important that both short-term and long-term measures are put in place to help more people in work. The government has been very busy since the turnout and preparing Norway for the future. Therefore, it is quite alarming when the Workers' Party says that it is doing too little too late. It's the Working Party that's late. They managed for eight years with little focus on reform and transformation. It was eight years of reform drought. We went to elections and won with new ideas and better solutions to equip Norway for the future. Today’s government provides and has launched reform work in a number of key areas of society. The government is facilitating increased investment in knowledge, research, innovation and infrastructure, so that we do not become so vulnerable to oil revenue failures. The time we're in, shows how right we've been. Norwegian oil industry will continue to be important, but much indicates that there are other industries and new jobs that need to take our society further into the future. We've become too dependent on the oil over time. We need more legs to stand on. The fall in the oil price causes a faster transition to new industries. The years of conversion may be challenging for Norway, but our starting point is good. We have a well-educated population, high technological competence, even distribution and rich natural resources. When there is higher unemployment, it becomes even more difficult for those who are furthest away from work. There will be more people competing for the job vacancies. 84 000 people with disabilities are involuntarily out of work. The government will have a working life with room for all and wants to use ordinary labour more in labour market policy, at a lower threshold for those who are striving to get a job. The government has proposed measures to reduce the risk of employers by employing vulnerable groups, such as facilitating access to temporary employment, increasing the use of wage subsidies and facilitating arrangements. The right and the government will invest more in what works, as a wage subsidy for employers offering unemployed young people work. There has been a door opener for many into the workplace. Similarly, temporary employment can also be a springboard for those who do not have work experience. Shopping force is doing more of what works. Action is to think new and not to be afraid to put new ideas and measures into practice. Action is to make the short-term and necessary steps to deal with increased unemployment, while at the same time pursuing a policy that equips Norway for the future. Fortunately, we have a government that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3747	Trontalen said a little about local hospitals and hospital structures this year. Pending a national plan, the government is silent. Is it quiet before the storm? The belief that centralization always provides better services is a myth for me. This myth is challenged by patient associations, healthcare operations, the Medical Association, the local hospital community and the population. Wholeness, continuity, proximity, availability and cooperation between first and second lines are qualities that often come in the shadow of the highly specialized. Local hospitals have important tasks, including in the area of drug care and mental health protection. Again, the complex is often best cared for in a local hospital. If the highly specialized is to function according to the plan, they have to get the right patients sorted. When patients are finished in the highly specialised, they need to return to the local hospital for post-treatment. That's a good problem distribution. The patients are satisfied with their local hospitals, but they are not satisfied with the eternal uncertainty about the hospital's future, the hospital's duties and staffing. The local hospital staff are also happy to work in a local hospital, but not with the eternal uncertainty about the future of the hospital. The one-time doctor we heard about before today is not a local hospital doctor. My claim, as a doctor at Rjukan Hospital and Notodden Hospital in Telemark, is that we provide good health services at the local hospitals. We are cost-effective and transparent, and proximity, continuity, follow-up and rehabilitation are qualities that are not valued to the same degree as are highly specialised. In addition, all healthcare professionals in Norway have access to glittering knowledge sources from the National Health Services Knowledge Centre, although this is now at risk of yet another reorganisation of central government health management. This independent base of competence should be independent of the apparatus of power and should retain its independence and credibility. I also hope that the Stortinget and the politicians will increasingly withdraw their ownership of health policy and are more likely to be the premiscuous supplier of the large lines of specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3760	Health was duly mentioned in the king's royal address. The Specialist Health Service is responsible for a turnover of close to 140 billion. kr in 2015, and the primary health service represents approximately 124 billion. kr. There are large amounts and therefore very important how we dispose of these funds. Prevention and early intervention are a good way to dispose of the funds, both for the individual user and for us who are going to spend the money. This represents almost a quarter of the total expenditure in the State budget. In the census, a lift of competence was announced for municipal health and care services. A big message about vocational education was also notified. Both of these themes are particularly important. It can give us a world-class primary health service, but we have some leverage left to take. Well-being technology makes it possible to make these promises easier for employees and makes it more user-friendly for those who rely on help, especially at home. We have more unused skills today than we might like to believe. We have activists that are less used in the municipal sector. We have Health Secretaries with a high level of competence. We have foot therapists who lack full-time positions. We have ergot therapists that every day facilitate users. As far as welfare technologies are concerned, no one in the health sector has really taken the lead. For the left, we think that a lot of people are ready to raise us up. In particular, ergot therapists are a competence group that we think can be used more here. It is a matter of adapting, but it is also a matter of purchasing. These are technological devices that many technologists sell, but it's important that those who are going to buy think about the user. We also need to develop training courses to facilitate this diversity of competences, which relate to both purchasing skills and commercial functions. Vocational education is particularly important here. These are important women's jobs, and especially in primary care, we need a level of competence, and it is therefore gratifying that there has been a strong focus on this in the next few years. Here we have unused resources, which both have a learning desire, and which can help those who are users.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3773	The King mentioned the school and education policy of the century, and the government is to be commended for an offensive commitment to knowledge and competence policy – a commitment that has been further strengthened through budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I am pleased about this, and it is necessary for us to be able to meet the challenges of the future in a good way. But also in school, we have some challenges, and then I'm not just thinking about real science challenges, a little bit of disappointing mathematical results, or what some people think is a little bit too bad places on PISA rankings. Then I think that too many children are experiencing the daily destruction of bullying, harassment and social isolation in school. For some of these children, this means a broken childhood. Students are not just raw materials for future business, as they were mentioned at the NHO Annual Conference last year. Students are primarily children, and we need to make sure that our children are safe and feel good when they are at school. The Prime Minister must be commended for having repeatedly lifted the fight against bullying, among other things. in his New Year's speech to the people. Now it's time to make words into action and transform the good intentions into practical policies, because it's possible to do something. The Djupedal Committee has given us a quite rich toolbox, with over 100 proposals for measures that can help reduce bullying. We need to work on prevention, but we also need to take action to ensure children's legal certainty. No one should feel that they are not taken seriously when they tell about bullying, and no one should feel that the school or school owner is not following up on their responsibility. We can't stand to hear even more stories about children who have been hurt at school without adults intervening. And we can't stand to hear even more stories about parents who despair, because they feel alone in the fight against a bureaucratic system when they tell them that their children are being bullied, abused and harassed. I'm excited about how the government will follow up on the report from the Djupedal Committee, and I'm excited about what we can expect within this field of the state budget presented on Wednesday – not least how the government wants to follow up the test project with bullying agents, for which the Christian People's Party has had an impact, and which is now approaching the end. If we get rid of the bullying, it will lead to more people finishing school. It will help more people to concentrate on learning without worrying about what awaits them in the schoolyard, and it will contribute to increased learning among students. But the fight against bullying is primarily about human dignity for our children, and that they should feel safe and feel good when they are at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3788	A demanding employment situation has so far marked the debate on the speech of the year. That's natural, because we have the highest unemployment rate in Norway in 22 years. In addition, as the Minister of Labour described in his statement, many people go around with a lump in their stomachs and wonder if it is they who will soon have to enter the job queue. It was therefore interesting to hear the Minister of Labour problematizing how an extension of the time one can be permitted, to 52 weeks, can lead to a redemption effect. The Minister of Labour recalls that unemployment is falling in eight counties. Instead of maintaining the competence of the company, as I understood the Minister of Labour, it is important that workers are moved quickly to a company in a state where the unemployment rate is lower. I wonder if it calms down the worker the Minister of Labour has met who walks around with lumps in his stomach and wonder if he will soon be unemployed. A longer period of leave could allow enterprises to maintain their skills. In this way, the company can get started faster once the situation changes. When we heard the Minister of Labour today, he stressed that the government is going to increase the appropriations for maintenance in the state sector. That's good. However, it is equally important to look at the municipal sector — whether it is given the means to increase the number of people employed in the care of the elderly and in school — whether municipalities are given the opportunity to launch large, new maintenance tasks and other investments. But it doesn't look like that's happening. On the contrary, more and more municipalities are warning that budgets need to be cut and investment plans postponed. The money is there if we use them in a more sensible way by prioritizing. Here, the Workers' Party has provided a municipal scheme that meets the needs of the municipalities much better than the government provided when the municipality proposal was presented. Two years ago, the Stoltenberg government shut down the Inland Committee. The committee should look at the specific challenges we face in the Inland. After a while, the committee's work was continued by the Solberg government. Now we're excited about what comes out of the sample's work. We expect to see traces of it already in the state budget. We expect to see evidence that agriculture and forestry are being put in the driver's seat in terms of the announced bioeconomy strategy. We expect a government to see the value of the cluster on Raufoss, which contributes to the transformations every day. The possibilities are many if we spend the money on the important thing. Now we're just waiting for the government to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3798	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the four cooperation parties have contributed to an important and necessary change of pace in our country's transport policy. A more coherent road and rail system, a reduction in planning time and, for the first time in several decades, a reduction in the maintenance run on highways and railways. This is an important and socially profitable investment in the short and long term. Finally, we are moving towards what was one of the main objectives of the action rule when it was introduced in 2001, namely that the funds in each year's State budget to be recovered from the oil surplus should primarily contribute to increasing investment in infrastructure and research. In addition to increased road safety, fewer fatalities and heavy injuries and better accessibility for people and goods, increased infrastructure deployment is also a good rural policy. Road and rail development links regional centres and districts and contributes to an enlarged housing and labour market. An active district policy must be based on the idea and willingness to maintain housing and nutrition throughout the country. It is necessary to facilitate sustainable value creation within a predictable framework. But then we know that in order for the districts to be attractive to young people, skills jobs need to be created where there is a need for people with higher education. It is therefore important in the future that more State jobs are placed in the districts. This also contributes to less pressure in the Oslo area, with major traffic challenges, high housing and establishment costs and high wages. The relocation of state jobs was largely done under the Bondevik II government, while under Stoltenberg I and II little, unfortunately, happened in this area. The experiences of the relocation during Bondevik II were evaluated in a separate report, and the results were very interesting. There was no evidence of a lack of relevant competence. There was a high level of efficiency and high quality of services to be provided – an important stimulus from the new skills jobs to the district in which they were located, which in turn gave positive ring-effects when it came to the relocation of young people and added value for established business. The time has come for a new strategy for the location of state jobs in districts. Together with the establishment of several regional seed funds, the strengthening of Innovation Norway and the replenishment of regional development funds, this will be a good step in strengthening industrial development and housing in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3811	Some time ago, the county rapporteur in Rogaland, Janne Johnsen, took the initiative of an opportunity conference in Stavanger. I was there and I visited it, and it made the impression. There were probably a lot of opportunities in the region, but there were also some people there who experienced their own situation as hopeless. The current situation shows that the Norwegian economy has been too oil-dependent for too long. This is why the Right has been talking about the need for conversion for many years. Unfortunately, Norway was not well prepared for what came. It may be because of the belief you have in the Workers' Party, and as we have heard from the Workers' Party today, that conversion is something that happens all the time, every day, whether you do anything or not. There has never been room for change in the project of social democracy. But the four parties on the civil side do something about it, for example. the transport budget has increased by 30 pst. in two years because infrastructure investment is important, it is good for jobs. If we keep the construction activity going, that means that more people can work. And then the maintenance run has gone down. That's nice, but there's actually something new in Norwegian transport policy. In addition, we take the recognition that an excessive tax bill limits the possibility of developing, investing and employing more people. That is why we have reduced tax bills in Norway. We have increased investment in research and innovation: 1.6 billion. kr more than the previous government. In these funds there is also an allocation for the conversion needs of the South and the West. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this government has lowered the threshold of working life, and we have also made it easier to make local arrangements for working time. Just because you have tried such a scheme, well-being has tended to go up, sick leave has tended to go down, and there has been an increase in the number of job vacancies. People get the opportunity to work smarter, because it's easier to adapt working time to the life you're actually living. And we've started a whole series of work to make the Nav employment service work better. These are just some of the examples of what the government is doing to equip Norway for the future. But what do we meet? Well, we're facing arguments that you're doing too much too early, then arguments that you're doing too little too late. – It is clearly easy to sit in opposition. We meet arguments that we don't do things we do. – It is clearly easy to sit in opposition. We're getting unbalanced representations of our tax policy without the Workers' Party telling who's going to get an increase in tax. – It is clearly easy to sit in opposition. The simple rhetoric can keep the Workers' Party to itself. The good politics will be the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3834	The peak census is the refugee situation in Europe and the increased number of arrivals in Norway. The government says it will accept the refugees in a good way and proposes 227 million. kr extra in 2015. It's all right, but the problem goes far beyond 2015. When Jonas Gahr Støre opened the throne debate, he drew up a slightly larger perspective. Europe faces major challenges because of the refugee situation, but Europe does not accept the most, and in Europe Norway does not accept the most in terms of neither quota refugees nor asylum seekers. A little bit indicates that the situation will change with the first. More will come to us than the estimate of 16 000 asylum seekers that the government is now using for 2015 – both in 2016 and 2017. Are we prepared for this? Reception capacity has to be increased, but the task does not stop there. In the census, the government says that high employment and low unemployment are the foundations of the Norwegian model. Here, perhaps, lies the greatest challenge. The refugees need municipalities that will accept them. They shall be admitted to the introduction programme and learn Norwegian, they shall have accepted foreign education, and they shall be put to work. And let's hope that Heggelund is right when he says that the government has lowered the threshold into working life. Actually, it is a bit of a paradox that all the state councils responsible for receiving, settling and integrating well are from the Progress Party, which went against the agreement on more quota refugees. While the Minister of Inclusion sends letters to the municipalities to settle more people, she is countered by her own party leader and finance minister, who, on the one hand, asks the municipalities to refuse to settle, but who, on the other hand, are themselves responsible for obtaining the money to which they are going. I guess the Minister of Finance doesn't make any difference between quota refugees and asylum seekers. Following her call from the municipalities, the Minister of Justice will inherit the problem in the form of overcrowded reception. When people get in touch, they don't start the introduction program and integration. And the longer it takes to get people going in Norway, the harder the job becomes for the Minister of Labour to get people working, and then the social assistance costs increase. Then we all have to be happy that the Progress Party did not get a majority for its proposal to cut 0.5 billion. kr in the budget of the UDI. I'm sure the Minister of Justice is happy today. Before the election, Erna Solberg said ok to Siv Jensen's attack on Stortingen's refugee agreement. The situation we are now facing requires leadership. The Prime Minister must take that leadership. There must be no doubt that the government is doing its utmost to solve the challenge we are facing, both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3847	The two-part economy and the need for conversion are something that the Right has pointed out for a long time, but as the Red-Green government did not take in when, according to their own statement, they were on guard. We need to prepare the public sector for tomorrow's challenges, we need to facilitate increased competitiveness in Norwegian business, and we need to make sure that we have more legs to stand on. From the day one, the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has provided the budget for work, activity and conversion. It means a significant increase in the focus on knowledge, industrial research and innovation, infrastructure and tax incentives that make Norwegian business more competitive. In the debate we have heard the head of the Labour Party, the representative Gahr Støre, talk about that we are doing too little, too late. It almost sounds like a quote from 2013 and a description of the legacy of the red-green government. Let's do transportation as an example. A good and well-functioning infrastructure is essential for business to get goods transported in and out of the business, but it is also important for us to have good everyday regions where people can move to and from work and leisure activities. In meeting enterprises around the country, infrastructure is often at the top of the wish list. The situation in the autumn of 2013 was as follows: first, a formidable maintenance run on the road and track that had increased every year under red-green rule. On the highways, well over 30 billion had been followed. kr and on the railway approx. 17 B.C.E. NOK, and then I have not taken with the county roads. Secondly, it was a long planning time. It took an average of ten years to plan a road project. And third, there were 22 projects that were delayed or not implemented according to the national transport plan progress plan. After the government change in 2013, trade has been lifted as one of the main areas of activity. The means of maintenance have increased, and in 2015, for the first time in several decades, red-green decay is reduced both by road and by rail. Compared to 2013, we're now using 10 billion. kr more on the road and track, and we organize ourselves smarter. We facilitate increased road safety, reduced travel time, lower costs and better accessibility. We have established a road company that has been given responsibility for the development of major major shipping years. We use OPS as an effective method of implementation. We are reforming the toll sector to reduce costs and make it more user-friendly, as well as reorganising the rail sector to ensure that passengers are given the best possible offer. Too little, too late is not a good description of today's situation. It is better than a judgment on the red-green policy. I think it is confirmed in this debate, where the maintenance of infrastructure is not mentioned by the opposition as an instrument to increase the level of activity and get people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3860	This year's election shows that the blue-blue wind has turned. We have seen this for a long time in the polls, but have now been confirmed by elections. Although it was a municipal and county elections, it is clear that more and more do not want government policy. They are on the wrong course and take Norway in the wrong direction. It is therefore quite special when the State Council of Solvik-Olsen is standing on the pulpit today and says that the government is pursuing a policy for the city and the country. It is a good thing to use the Workers’ Party slogan ‘By and land hand in hand’ and have it as a goal, but the policy pursued by today’s government unfortunately shows something different. It's not so strange when you choose to spend the big money on tax cuts. I believe that the government is pursuing a district enemy and centralizing policy. Not least, we have seen this clearly in my home country, Nordland. From the day one, this government has made proposals that have gone in the wrong direction. They began to cut well in regional development funds, which went not least beyond the Nordic region. The introduction of new cost keys for county municipalities that hit Nordland extra hard. If this doesn't change, it'll be 283 million. kr less per year from 2019. In addition, we know that the government has said no to compensate for the tax failure in the municipalities. They also introduced a new corporate tax of only 10 pst. of the municipalities will come out positively. On several people who have stood on the platform here today, it sounds like it's the new rescue to business. The government has granted significantly less to the municipalities than the Workers' Party has proposed. There will be no more feeding effort or well-being there. The government says that the trade bet has increased significantly. Yeah, that's right, but it's also the red-green NTP they follow. What they boast of is, in fact, what the previous government wanted with its change of pace. I also want to remind you that the Labour Party in its budget actually had 1.5 billion. D more for transport than the Right and the Advance Party had in their original proposal. They were cut off from broadband development grants. And we're now going to see the result. Today the applications were published. 32 of 172 applications were granted in 2015. Only in Nordland there were more applications than the entire pot for 2015. Then we'll see on Wednesday if they want a further bet. As if this were not enough, we know that they have proposed to change the property tax on works and use, which will hit the municipalities hard. These were just some examples of today’s government taking Norway in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3882	Today’s government has not given the impression that it has any vision for the development of the country either in the census and the announcement of ‘the state and governance of the kingdom of Norway’ or in today’s debate. What is the Right Party and the Advance Party want with the government power? Where are all these single things that have been rammed into the throne and the message, leading the country? Today's government parties have not responded to this in the languages of the throne and in today's debate. What we have heard in today's debate is that according to the government parties, the government has granted a little more to everything and launched investigations into individual conversion measures that crack in many directions, and that they will do more of next year – but thus no vision for the country. In the election campaign in the fall, the message of the Advance Party was that they should give people a simpler everyday life. Obviously, it had no hearing or confidence in the population. The progress of the party was strongly reduced at the time of the election. Right will provide opportunities for everyone and have new ideas and better solutions. This also had neither hearing nor confidence in the population at the elections in the autumn. Also the Right went strongly back in the election. Random? Well, people have now experienced the Advance Party and the Right in Government. It's become tax havens. Taxes on wealth are reduced. But a responsible economic policy can be challenging, and the objective of not becoming less well-being with tax havens is not clear. It notes young people, who experience cutbacks in kindergartens, cutbacks in schools, fewer teachers and cutbacks in the maintenance of public buildings, which means poorer school buildings and gymnasiums. It is experienced by the elderly in care and care, with a cut in the offer as a result. If they experience a simpler everyday life and new opportunities and better solutions, I don't know. What the voters have stressed when making their choices is not easy to know. However, a related question is whether the Progress Party and the Right should look at their own policy to find the answer. Was there a lack of vision that caused it? It was at least the red-green vision of social development that won the election. There has been a lot of talk about conversion here today, and that the previous government should have provided this situation and started the conversion earlier. This is getting too stupid. The previous government implemented a series of conversion measures to meet the challenges of financing the welfare state in the future, with an ageing population, and to facilitate a transition from an oil-based business. The reform of pensions, the under-employment reform and the work for an inclusive working life provide incentives for increased labour input and the possibility of continuing to work. The development of kindergartens gives families the opportunity for both their father and mother to take part in the work. The Norwegian model of high levels of organisation, co-ordinated wage formation, well-regulated working life and tripartite cooperation has contributed to cohesion and trust between peoples, which are fundamental to the transformation of the world of work. Different instruments for business conversion and public sector renewal are other measures. The perspective message points to the challenges we are experiencing now, and possible answers. That one disagrees with these measures is an honest thing, but saying that nothing was done is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3899	We are today facing a need for conversion that could be difficult to see for just a few years. We are part of a Europe that needs a strong, joint effort, while our own country needs an offensive effort that can strengthen competitiveness and ensure that new, secure jobs are created. More important than ever is the ability to combine experience with innovation to ensure long-term and stable development in a rapidly changing value. The Labour Party's prime transport politician said earlier today that he didn't recognize himself in the history story from the Right. It's alarming, because the history of transport is not, in fact, a subjective storytelling – the maintenance run that this government met, after eight years of red-green rule by Norway, is unfortunately evidence-based. 17 000 km by highway had been transferred to the state without money for maintenance. The national transport plan was not met, and the present Minister for Transport Marit Arnstad said in 2013 that 80 pst. were on route. That means 20 pst. were not in a panel. So it's going to say that one in five projects was delayed, and it's definitely not a story to be proud of. The red-green had overfilled the NTP in one area: with regard to crowns. But the country didn’t need a world champion in money use — it needed the most infrastructure possible for the money. With the Right and Progress Party in government and in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we now see that the maintenance movement has been reduced for the first time in many decades. The government is in a good position to pick up the maintenance run on the railway and has a double incentive to the state and reintroduced the interest-free loans so that the county roads can be disposed of. Norway now has a government that wants to use the knowledge and experience that history has given us, and we have a government that has looked forward, that dares to seize, and that will help to strengthen business in one of the most sought-after areas: transportation. It is an infrastructure effort that will also increase the demand for labour, but not least create good bus and work regions with safe, sustainable traffic for road users. We have a government that is now using all good tools to create a secure future for Norway's population in a global value.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3912	Norway must be said to be in a challenging time. The fall in the oil price has a major impact on the labour market and unemployment is increasing in several countries. At the same time, there is enormous pressure on Norway and Europe from outside. In such a situation, action and willingness to bet are required. Both future and future well-being and value creation depend on massive investment in research, education and infrastructure. I noticed that the Workers' Party and Gahr Støre's leading criticism of the census was that the word «transition» was not put into a historical context, and that it was sub-communicated that the conversion took place all the time. I think it's a criticism we can live with. But I also noticed that the Labour Party was the party that spent less oil money than the government parties in the budget for this year. The Labour Party clearly believes that there is a proper policy in the current situation that more of the money is being invested abroad, rather than being invested in Norway, as the government parties want. I think it's a strange priority, and I think it shows that the Workers' Party has not changed. So there's nothing happening to itself all the time, even though they've decided that they're going to be a curious party. The need for value-generating investment in research, development and infrastructure is high. Then we have to use the opportunity we now have to do the necessary steps to ensure Norway's well-being and value creation in a tough international situation. The Progress Party is very pleased that the government has as its objective Norway to be among Europe’s most innovative country. It is essential for us to be able to have growth and well-being in the future as well. The industry-related research needs to be strengthened, and programmes such as the User-led Innovation Arena, which stimulate ambitious R & D efforts in Norwegian business, need to be further developed. It is worth noting that, among other things. The NHO clearly expresses their satisfaction at the government's strengthening of industrial research. The research project A knowledge-based Norway just demonstrated how the value creation is knowledge-based and that research-based value creation is the strongest in the business environments that also have the strongest research environments around them. Policy is about prioritizing, and the Progress Party will give priority to industry-related research in the fields of petroleum research, marine research and nanotechnology, biotechnology and ICT. We must also take on board the fact that it is the hard subjects, the real subjects, which are particularly concretely value-creating and innovation-driven.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3927	We're going into a time of destiny. This fall, world leaders meet in Paris to make a climate agreement, the answer to the most important challenge of our time – the climate crisis. I wish the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment good luck in the important work she is facing in the coming months. Then we get to hope that, in the process towards it, she doesn't get to be met with that about half of her own government says it's not a problem at all. With the Progress Party in government, we have therefore made the European outpost manage many of the main climate ministries. It is rare that I hear left-wing politicians more engaged than when they try to greenen the Progress Party. They say that there is no problem what you mean, but it says itself – it does something with the will to solve a problem when you don't even think it's a problem. Because it's true, as Trine Skei Grande said in the election campaign two years ago: in climate policy, the Progress Party is not just on another planet, they're in another universe. The problem is that now it's the ones with the hands on the wheel. It is visible in climate policy and, not least, it is visible in the other major environmental struggle: the work of taking care of nature and biodiversity. Nature is under great pressure, and that's the sum of all the small interventions that together are serious. Nature is broken down piece by piece and divided. Now the government has been sitting for two years, and this summer the three largest environmental organisations gave the government the leverage for their efforts to preserve nature. They listed 24 points where they thought the government was a driver to destroy nature. These include: WWF leader Nina Jensen said it: ‘With its anti-natural policy, they destroy the basis of life of endangered species, increase the threat to the environment, destroy valuable nature and destroy the natural experience of people.’ It is of course permissible to disagree, but instead of going into the debate, the response from the government parties was clear. The Environment Spokesman in the Progress Party thought the day after all the support for the environmental organisations had to be cut because he thought they had become late and knowledgeless. The fact that those who believe that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is simply a customs matter is easy to put on the smile-band is that the environmental movement is unknowingly ignorant. But the problem is that it's really not funny, it's quite serious, because it says something about both environmental policy and democracy. It's just countries that we don't like to compare with, that meet political criticism with threats of cuts in support. Then I have to use my last seconds to say that I disagree with the Advancement Party. The environmental movement in Norway is neither ignorant nor lazy. On the contrary, the environmental movement in Norway is very knowledgeable and active, and that is probably also the government's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3947	Norway is a good country to live in — a country with great potential for all. When we see what has been happening in Europe in recent times, our secret challenges may seem small. The world is facing the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War. 60 million people are fleeing from wars and conflicts. It's our greatest humanitarian crisis. Norway is a peaceful, democratic and resourceful country. Norway must take its share of the responsibility for what is now happening in Europe, and we have a government and a prime minister who takes that responsibility. There's a proposition of its own to the Storting about an extra promise of humanitarian aid to deal with the situation. The government has taken the initiative of a donor conference for the Syrian and nearby refugees, and Norway contributed to the search and rescue of the Mediterranean Sea. Norway is also high in terms of diplomatic international work. The fact that large groups of people, like now, are being moved through Europe without border control and registration, cannot continue. The refugee crisis will also make major demands on Norway. Municipalities-Noreg will have to set up, and many municipalities do. 11,000 refugees will be settled in the municipalities in the future. Not least voluntary efforts by organisations and individuals are important. It is crucial for good integration. A year ago, during the throne debate, the main message was that we in Norway entered a new economic reality. We're talking about the new normal. The sharp fall in oil investment coincided with a near-half of the oil price. It hit hard on those parts of the country where the oil industry is leading. We experienced an emergency brake, and many have experienced loss of work – especially in the South and Western countries. The government's proposal for the 2015 budget was too high for lower oil investments and hit well, although the opposition thought the budget was too expansive. In addition to spring, however, there was a message from the opposition that the measures were too small, too late. This government follows economic developments closely, and there are warnings about increasing unemployment. There are signs of increased apprenticeship grants, specific measures for available engineers, a Youth Package, several action areas and growth-promoting tax havens. The 2016 budget will focus a lot on work and activity. This government's commitment to education, research, innovation and infrastructure will contribute to the transformation we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3961	A white soul once said that good health is required to be ill in Norway. Probably everyone in this room agrees that you will never be a hundred percent satisfied with the health service given, because there will always be simple stories about people who will experience not getting the right treatment at the right time. That is why the Progress Party is extremely concerned about Norwegian hospitals and the offers given. Many are waiting under stress at the government’s national health and hospital plan, which is presented in a short time. It will be a plan for the future hospital, a plan for the benefit of the Norwegian people. Regardless of the presentation of the plan, localisation struggles will continue in the future. Where should the new hospital be, what functions should it contain, and how can it best serve patients? The progress party will be the best friend of the local hospitals. We do not want to reduce the hospital supply, although we recognize that not all hospitals can offer all kinds of treatment, to all people, at all times of the day. And given that we are becoming more and more people in this country, especially in the big cities, it is important both to maintain and take care of what we already have from hospital buildings, and to build timely, functional and forward-looking when new projects are realized. Unfortunately, previous governments have imposed a solid maintenance seat on Health-Norway. The State of the Nation report, published by the Consulting Engineers’ Association earlier this year, concludes that there are 40 psts in the specialist health service. unsatisfactory and 10 pst. very poor building mass requiring major technical upgrades. In this context, it is right to point out the approach taken by the government when establishing the property company Hospital Building HF to ensure professionalisation and better implementation of large-scale projects. Being a health politician can often be a difficult task. There are so many individual ships, as many as you would like to help, people who stay stuck in the system. That is precisely why it is so gratifying to see that a package of cancer, a progress party proposal that was voted down as late as 2011, has now been introduced and already ensures that cancer no longer becomes a wasteball in the system. For the Progress Party, it is obvious that cancer patients should experience good quality, rapid follow-up and safe treatment. It should really just be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3978	Good infrastructure does more than connect people, cities and countries. It changes the way we humans live our lives. The telegraphy system is the precursor of sleeping with the smartphone next to the pillow. The construction of the London metro makes it possible for 1.2 billion people today to be transported under the streets of London every year. That's the main reason why the city works at all. Infrastructure is not just infrastructure itself. It's not just about the people and the goods on the road right there and then. It's just as much about everything that's going on anywhere else. It affects working life, business life, knowledge life, leisure life – yes, life itself. The smell of asphalt is just as much about getting a baby delivered to kindergarten and taking the bus to work. The aim of the Workers' Party is therefore to build and develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that will make traffic management simpler, faster and safer, with good communications and transport opportunities across the country, so that you can live the life you want. The Labour Party put forward proposals for the current NTP up to a shift in the pace of transport policy. I'm proud of that, but not satisfied with it. I now register that the government refers to this change of pace as its own. I conclude that dear child has many names and also many parents. It is good that the Minister of Transport is behind the red-green NTP. The size agrees much with the transport policy, but at some intersections we distinguish the direction: a rail reform on the wrong track and a road reform on the unknown whose attempts seem to be more important than professional advice, and where competition is more important for the competition's own part than building a more path for the community's money, is, in my view, the wrong priority. The government is now also signaling in its work on new NTP that all projects should be socially viable. With today's calculation, we know what it will mean for a number of the country's planned and desired projects, nothing and no start-up. I hope I'm wrong. Just looking at what's happening on the road gets too sloppy. For the Workers' Party, transport policy is about our entire society, and how we organize good life throughout the country. That will be our focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e3995	We're still going to create and share. The working party has a long tradition of both facilitating value creation and distributing the best possible fairest. There shall be a stable governance of the economy, sustainable and sustainable business environment. We need to create values so that the most possible can be the best possible – in both good and difficult times. Therefore, there is no point for us to reduce the tax on the richest, as the government has as universal medicine. We have other stakes that are more important. We want to use resources to develop society and further develop the welfare community. We want more teachers in school, good care for the elderly and good health services. We will strengthen the local economy and put in place measures that work when the country has increasing unemployment. Working for everyone is still the most important thing. When some industries are now struggling, the state must play an active role in creating activity and having effective labour market measures. In addition to well-being, we will use tax revenues to stimulate value creation. We will give municipalities greater opportunities to contribute as business developers and to the development of business networks. By exploiting each other's skills and equipment, we see companies developing and becoming more competitive. We see that tax money is useful in facilitating business. Entrepreneurship must be pursued in order to strengthen and renew business. Several young people should be given the opportunity to develop and run their own businesses. The commitment to young entrepreneurship should help entrepreneurs develop and become skilled entrepreneurs in the future. Exportright business shall be subject to good and safe conditions. We want to use our freedom of action to sustain and further develop industries, so that there will be a lot to share in the future. Welfare services are provided in municipalities. Enterprise development is taking place in municipalities, and by strengthening industrial development, taxing the sense and strengthening of the local economy, we guarantee the well-being of the individual. Therefore, it will always be more important for the Workers' Party to invest in the elephants and the elderly rather than tax cuts for those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4004	The census contained many general ideas about well-being and value creation, and many of the points are, in fact, difficult to disagree with. On the other hand, I understand that the government is not saying anything about the core of our welfare society, namely the municipalities. As in several other areas, the Right-Fremskritsparte government has been in a constantrrears in terms of the failure of tax revenue experienced by municipalities. The government has now been at the rudder for half the period, and the picture is clear: the big money in the action room is spent on cutting tax revenue. This is said to be done in order to create jobs, but research and reality are not on the government side. No, the government does not determine the oil price, but it chooses the means to take action against increasing unemployment, and the government chooses the wrong means, which are both unfair and ineffective. Since the government has used up its room for action to cut Community revenue, they are unable to compensate the municipalities for the tax failure they experience. After the first quarter, the country's second largest municipality, Bergen, had tax revenues of 175 million. kr below what was expected from the budget. I therefore allow myself to provide some examples of what this policy, or the lack of policy, can lead to. Before the summer of this year, the Right-Fremskritsparti Council in Bergen proposed to cut the social welfare allowance, increase the threshold to start child protection cases and reduce the activity offer for mentally ill people. The now dwindling Right-wing-Fremskritsparte Council in Bergen has also presented its draft budget for 2016. There is the flat cut for the whole of cultural life, cut in services for the developing, cut in drug-prevention work, cut in housing for social welfare recipients, cut in subsidies to the Church's City Mission. The municipalities are for all of us, but especially for those who need help, whether from the municipality or from voluntary and non-profit institutions that the municipality provides. I am aware that this is not a municipal government or a city government, but I say it to bring out the consequences of the government's policy. The wealthiest people in the country have increased their disposable income enormously, while in Kommune-Norway it is hard cut for those who need the community most. This is the reality out in our long-term country, a reality far from the discussions in this room on so-called growth-promoting tax havens. If the government wants to reduce social disparities, it must enable municipalities to do just that — if not empty words.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4017	It was a little tempting to start talking about municipal politics after the previous speaker, and so I came from Us, so it would be a good discussion. But I'm not going to do that. Norway is a good country to live in for most of us. We must not forget that. But it's a "but." We're in a challenging time in many areas. In the state where I come from, the downrooting has come seriously before the oil industry, and not least before several other industries that have also had their livelihoods from a rich oil industry. These are challenges that I'm going to believe are more of a ringing effect in the future than we know. The government focuses on work, activity and migration — activity if no work is available and transition to another profession or possibility for additional skills that provide service for work. The party of progress in government is conscious of these challenges. This situation may also have an impact on sick messages and disability, which one must work well to counteract. If a job loses, it increases the likelihood of it becoming a disability. This applies in particular to workers over 50 years of age. This was the headline of the Evening Post a few days ago, and it is one of the conclusions of economist Kjell G. Salvanes. Social exclusion is hard enough for those who become unemployed, but being outside because of illness is just as bad. Therefore, IA agreements are particularly important in such circumstances. Forced conversion is also for families with children. Several who are, and will, happen to be of decommissioning, are families there perhaps both mother and father have been laid off. Obviously, the whole family has to change. Children often have many of the concerns they may have. Therefore, it is important to bear this challenge that the least of them will also address. They can have a reduced quality of life that means that the big community must be obsessed and perhaps tired in different areas later. The challenges associated with the major and serious refugee crisis also apply to many families with children. These families and children will also have to master a transformation in their own lives. In addition to their traumatic situation, they also need to adapt to a new country and new environments. We in Norway are also going to take these challenges seriously. Most municipalities take over the need to receive more refugees. But it is important that one has available resources so that the welcome and follow-up are as good as possible. Difor is an important step forward and enhances skills, in terms of housing, health, school and childcare facilities. You may also need to think about differences in the introduction program. Many who come here are well educated, while others are not. Then you might need to look at the distribution of available help. The party of progress has been on an increase in aid for refugees in the neighbourhood, which we support further. We're also involved in taking a lift here at home and continuing our efforts to save lives in the Mediterranean. Many millions of dollars have also been raised, and we will continue to do so. The party of progress in government is occupied by family, and especially families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4043	At the start of my third year, I ask myself: What is most important? What do I spend time and effort on? Ole Paus, contemporary poet and critic, formulated this better than I do myself: the Christian People's Party has a policy for people who need politics. I took up the refugee situation in my main post earlier today. I now want to focus on good services and quality for the users in the municipalities – the multi-purpose girl, the traffic-damaged boy, the drug addict and the semi-criminals who are inside will do something completely different, the delinquent refugee family, the lady with dementia or the man approaching the end of the journey, who has the right to and the requirement for a worthy last step with calmness, care and pain relief. How are all these and others to ensure optimal treatment in the future? I'm on the Municipal and Management Committee. Unbound believe that it is both dry and boring. It's not. We're going to make sure that the municipalities are able to deliver the services that these people need. I think that's worth fighting for, both in budget and in individual matters. I visit and know many municipalities in Norway, and to be honest, it's uneven quality. In some municipalities, which say that everything is going well, the population may have fallen and job opportunities have decreased against everyone's will, and many services are being bought cheaply. For the Christian People's Party, it is now important that we support good processes in the reform of local government and democracy. Yes, it is good that municipalities work well today – with reference to competent individuals and cooperation agreements – but what about ensuring the best services for the next decade? I look forward to the opposition, which has conducted a good election campaign with good results, and would like to have done so by playing out an unclear threat picture of the reform, now, hopefully, constructively contributes to putting the best of the country and its users in focus rather than party politics. We all agree that the best solutions are created voluntarily and locally. The Christian People's Party will also, of course, keep small municipalities where appropriate, and still be a faithful champion of the districts. But it will certainly be a great strength in many regions if they are able to create more robust units with stable professional environments – it deserves people. I – and we at Stortinget – have been chosen to make important national decisions. Let's do it in a trick, even in things where popularity had to swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4058	The changed security policy situation in our neighbourhoods and global unrest has been mentioned by several from the pulpit today. The defense has been built down over many years, and today we have a marginal defence capability. In addition to a reduction over time, there has now been a slowdown in maintenance and spare parts. Everyone is familiar with the road maintenance drape we wear, and everyone has a relationship to it. But the defense actually has similar challenges, with a formidable aftertaste in the billions class. This poses additional challenges when we are now going to work to a new long-term defence plan, a long-term plan to rebuild our defence capabilities. This means that while we're building up the defense, we're going to have to do the same thing in parallel. This is going to be a demanding maneuver. The Chief of Defense has presented his professional military advice and is very clear on the challenges we face. It is now up to us politicians to take the tough priorities that must contribute to increased operational capacity, clearer presence and faster response capacity. In order to achieve this, the defence must use existing funds more aimed at that sharp end, while at the same time increasing the defence budgets. There's not so much bet on the defense since the last time we had a bourgeois government. Important steps have been taken: the Marine Hunters' Command on Permanent Preparedness, reduced reaction time on helicopter support, increased number of days sailing for the Coast Guard, several days sailing with frigates in the north and increased number of days of training for the army and HV in Finnmark and Troms. The government has started the reverse operation by increasing the defence budget. The challenges have built up over time and will take time to solve. However, the government has prioritised increased presence and enhanced operational capability in the north with further increase also for 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4069	Today, many have been concerned with increasing unemployment. So are we in the Workers' Party. We in the Labour Party believe that one with a much more focused effort can achieve more goals at the same time. We want to put in place measures for those who lose the job. We will use the freedom of action to take action to ensure that enterprises in vulnerable sectors, such as the supplier industry and the maritime sector, retain their competence for a transition period. Much of the unemployment is linked to the oil industry and falls in oil prices as a result of a reduction in investment on Norwegian pedestal and a strong reduction in drilling for exploration wells. This means that rigging is put into storage. Only in the mountain area are there more in circulation now. In order to reduce any of this effect, it can be invested in the study of old wells. There are many old search wells and old production wells that are ready to be permanently studied and removed. Oil rigs that are now inoperative in warehouses, together with associated crews, could increase the activity of the supply industry with ring-fenced local effects for many Western municipalities strongly affected by cutting and downsizing. The rental price per day, or what is called the rigors, is now halved in relation to two years ago. The costs of carrying out this type of work are significantly lower, which in turn means that this is a favourable time. This is anyway a responsibility that the state has to pay for, and we can get this work at half price now, so this must be a win-win situation. There is now availability of equipment, personnel and competences. This should be used. As mentioned above, several oil rigs are in storage only in the mountainous area that could have been used for this type of operation. This is a task that has to be done at some point. Why not do so now, while we can contribute to increased employment, and maintain the skills that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4078	We hear that the Workers' Party repeats its motto over and over again, too little and too late. But we have never had a government that has ever invested so much in building infrastructure in North Norway. And to illustrate this for Finnmark: NRK Finnmark normally spends between five and ten minutes on its morning news. All summer, the road news has taken twice as long as the ordinary news. It has been asphalting, it has been bypassing, and there has been maintenance work throughout the county. Sør-Varanger municipality has almost looked like a construction site. Then you have to ask yourself, what has happened, if today's government actually doesn't deliver? Well, what's happened is that this government grants Finland's part 125 pst. more than the Stoltenberg government gave up in 2013, and it is for the maintenance of our county roads. Let's use 50 pst. more for road investments today than we did under the Stoltenberg government, and we use between 60 and 70 pst. more for maintenance work on our roads than proposed by the Stoltenberg administration. And then it's also said here that no, it's happening centrally. No, it doesn't. In fact, North Norway today is left with over 20 pst. of the road budget. What was normal under the red-green was a place between 6 and 7 pst. And they were up in 14 pst. This is a historical investment, and for the first time in 30 years we see that the lag is actually being reduced. But that's not the only area. The government has agreed to expand the transmission capacity of energy between Balsfjord in Troms and Skaidi in Finnmark, an investment of nearly 3.5 billion. kr. Without this expansion – and later on to Varangerbotn – most bets in the north will only be spoken. For today's capacity has been blasted, has been blasted over the last ten years, without the red-green government lifting as much as a finger.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4087	In this election campaign, many accused the Greens of wanting to take Norway back to the past. If it were to be so wrong, we would all be accepted by a party that would already stand there and wait for us. It is a party that is opposed to the municipal reform, against the police reform, against the new hospital structure, their top candidate in Oslo will introduce the school uniform, and the party centrally and locally has the greatest ambition to meet tomorrow's challenges with a 50-year-old model. Of course, I'm talking about the Center Party. The Norwegian community has evolved significantly since the last municipal reform. We're getting more and more, we're moving, we have new transport options, new housing patterns, new technologies and new communication opportunities. Today, the municipality has to cover the entire spectrum of these services. However, many municipalities do not have large enough professional environments to even provide good enough welfare services. Psychiatric health and child protection are two good examples of this. Local authorities have been given greater tasks, but have not increased in themselves, and this imbalance has led to many inter-municipal cooperation. This development weakens the local democratic governance of services. A majority of Norwegian local politicians see this challenge. That is why, after examination, we see that they want community reform. But the Centerpartiet and also SV sit here in their big business offices in Oslo and send the following message to local politicians: We know best. We know best how to solve your local challenges. They have sadly pushed ahead of themselves, throughout the election campaign, the breaches of reports and what I would call scare propaganda about the fall of local democracy. Yes, what to say – you have almost tried to play on the fear of change. But Norway will change, Norway has always changed, and we will change at greater speed than ever before. The challenges of the future require constant adaptability. Many here today are talking about Norway having to change – how are we going to meet the labour market situation? But it starts by having robust municipalities. It is in the communities that the work is to be created, and then we have to have stronger municipalities. As we enter a new session, I hope that we can now see a more constructive view of how we will make the future of Kommune-Norges from both the Centre Party and SV – and also from the Workers' Party, based on what I saw in the election campaign sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-10-05.ana.ud1339e4098	Then the first day of the debate is over. The president reminds me that we'll meet tomorrow morning. 10, and that first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
