ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e57	The representatives of Sylvi Graham, Mette Tønder, Ketil Kjenseth and Eirik Milde, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Øystein Langholm Hansen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e82	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e85	On behalf of the major representatives of Helga Pedersen, Ingaill Olsen, Sigmund Steinnes, Eirik Sivertsen, Tone-Helen Toften, Kirsti Bergstø, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to set up a professorate at the UIT, the Arctic University of Norway, to strengthen research and dissemination on World War II in northern Norway and the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e90	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e93	It's a great pleasure for me on behalf of the big business representatives Anders B. Werp and myself to present a proposal for the immediate abolition of the penal code § 142 [[blasphemic paragraph]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e98	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e101	On behalf of Abid Q. Raja, Sveinung Rotevatn, Iselin Nybø and myself, I will present a Document 8 proposal to repeal the police law § 14, first paragraph, No. 8, access to municipal begging ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e107	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will also make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e110	I have the pleasure of promoting a burning theme. On behalf of Hans Fredrik Groevan, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I put forward a proposal for a representative to remove the possibility of a municipal ban on begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e115	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 7 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's about the proposition that was just delivered. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e180	As announced, the Stortinget will now deal with Document 1, which is the main document provided by the National Audit Office to the Swedish Government for the review of the government's work and the management's work in the past year. This year, too, it is nice to be able to say – with great coverage in the document and the knowledge we otherwise have – that we have a very good administration in Norway. The quality of the government’s accounts and the budgetary disbursement carried out are also good. It's a pleasure to say, that's the case, that's how it's been for many years, and we can establish it here in the Storting even on this occasion. The review also shows that the administration follows closely along-the-way recordings and shows willingness to improve. This means that a joint committee shows that the Riksrevision is being taken seriously, and we will stress from our point of view that we think is very good. It also shows that our management is flexible and dynamic. The administration is loyal to political governance and serves society. According to the National Audit Office, the annual accounts of the underlying activities are largely of good quality. It's just – and here I use the term ‘only’, because it's just – 13 of 215 businesses that get a modified audit report for 2013. However, the National Audit Office has registered that there are still challenges related to the choice of a financial framework. I say the last sentence, referring to the two councils that are present, because it is a little important to take the point that it is still a little bit difficult to implement what is called a financial framework throughout the administration, and it must be a task for the government to follow it up, so that you get it in place as many places as possible. As regards the budget lines of the operation, there is a slight decrease in the number of material observations from the Riksrevision – from 28 for the year 2012 to 25 for 2013. However, – of course – also in this year’s Document 1 it appears that important community services and services of great importance to users have been commented on for a number of consecutive years. It's about, this time too, the Labour and Welfare Act, the Defence, the Police Directorate, the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the Children's, Youth and Family Act. These have also received significant comments for 2013. I remember very well that the last time I stood here in the same capacity, I spent a lot of energy and strong words on why this repeats all the time. I say for the sake of order, so it's not to be misunderstood: this is not directed against the current government, it's about governments over time. And it's remarkable that, despite the fact that the National Auditorate observes these departments year after year in particular – have significant comments – and the Committees of the Stortinge and the Stortinge here in plenary join this, it won't be improved as we want. It is a responsibility now – and it must be now, for the current government – to go more concretely into it and find out why it is. Because, as I say, we all agree that these are essential institutions that mean a lot to society and to the citizens. That's what's important to us, it's not the political disagreement or the meaning of this, but it's the fact that this doesn't work as it should, and that they get significant comments year after year. I'm saying this again, and it's also an expression of a little frustration, for this room and this treatment are going to be the top authority in terms of this. But we don't have an impact on these floors. I don't know what the good officials in the National Audit Office think. They loyally write over and over again what they mean, but they don't get through. And I repeat, this isn't about the last year just, it's about years back in time, and I'm going to get closer to it. I have now said on behalf of the Committee what the Committee thinks about this, and delivered it to the Governments representing the government on this occasion. They get to take this further, because this is important to try to do something with and especially important to figure out why we have to do this again year after year. It is important to note that in the year-on-year treatment of Document 1 there is a very special situation, namely that the setting is without the part relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is also related to some of the things I have just said, namely the fact that the committee has seen the need, as it is called in fine language, to take that part of the vote because of the situation in Nav. As Stortinget is probably familiar with, and the government is familiar with, the committee has had two hearings on Nav. It is also a repetition – one of the great repetitions – that has thus received these heavy remarks over time, and where we now have to say that we have to wait with this part of the setting, because we have to see what we are going to write. It's because we haven't been treated anymore. We have had two rounds of open consultations, and the Committee is now working on the conclusions on this. It will then be submitted as a special notification to the Storting at the right time. The second point that I want to highlight especially, and that should call for a lot of attention in the Storting, is what's related to child protection, i.e., Bufetate, as it's called in short language. Those responsible for the follow-up of child protection show us that we have received comments – and I say so now – every year since 2009. Every year since 2009, child protection and Bufetat have received comments! It is clear that attention is being paid, and this time it is about the lack of staffing and competence of child protection institutions. We have heard about this before, and we see – I would stress it – that Bufetat has worked systematically with improvements in important areas, but that there is still too poor staffing and too low competence in our child protection institutions, at least in some of them. If children under the care of the child protection system are to receive a fair and equivalent offer, something must be done at this point. I'd like to say, on behalf of the whole committee, that we demand that this very thing be corrected. I'm asking that the government representatives take note of this very point, because this has been discussed, and the committee has, of course, an commitment to this, because it's about very vulnerable people in our society. Finally, I will briefly go through some points to what is worth mentioning in connection with Document 1, in addition to what I have just said. That is to say, for 2013 there are also comments on the management of grants, but the impression is that important improvements have now been made. It shows that the review of the Ministry's grant management and the audit hearing on the case carried out by the previous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has been effective. It's good that we've got more custom on just this. The revision of the year also reveals weaknesses in what is called information security, despite the fact that this has also been pointed out in the past. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that it is particularly critical that the departments responsible have not followed up on this. In addition, the revision of the year identified weaknesses with services of major importance for security, preparedness and well-being and that several of the weaknesses are due to poor coordination between ministries and levels of administration. I want to say that sentence one more time, because I have read it very carefully: it is due to poor coordination between departments and levels of administration. It goes beyond what is called security, preparedness and well-being. The Committee considers this to be of particular concern all the time when the July 22 Commission pointed out these weaknesses and that on that basis they should have been followed up more closely. These are the things that I think it's important from my point of view that the committee's chairman is to say initially. I assume that some other members of the Committee will talk about the areas for which they are specifically responsible. I will end by saying that there is every reason on this occasion to also praise the Riksaudition for their very thorough work. Document 1 is an unusually qualified and excellent review of the entire management of what happened the previous year. That gives Stortinget a very good basis for discussing our management, and we can have confidence that we know what we need to know about, and that we have control of what we need to control.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e212	As the representative Kolberg pointed out, the Directorate of Police has received significant comments from the National Audit Office for 2013 – not because the Directorate has received comments every year since 2009. It is serious not only for our common security today, but also to ensure that we prevent crime in the future. The Court of Auditors has comments on, inter alia: work on the emergency networks, acquisitions, operational capability of civil protection, official control of watchkeeping activities and work on social security and preparedness. On the other hand, I should like to mention something else: the National Audit Office refers to the lack of uniform and comprehensive follow-up to the crime prevention work. This refers to the lack of government information from the Ministry and weaknesses in police districts in the provision of crime prevention work. If not avoiding future crime is crucial for the ministry when they guide through the information and give guidance signals to the directorate, I don't know what's important. Prioritisation of prevention is part of good governance. Prevention is one of the most important measures in combating crime, and increased efforts will have a major impact not only on individuals but also on us as a society. As it is now, it is up to each and every police district to give priority to that kind of work. As a result, it will be difficult for the Ministry and the Directorate to assess how work is going — whether it is being done and whether it is being prioritised — and it will be difficult for the Riksrevision and the Stortinget to check whether it is being done properly. It's work that needs to be done, that needs to be done correctly, that needs to be prioritised, and we need to be able to follow it. The Directorate of Police has launched work on reform and development, inter alia: ICT, management and organisation, and have said that the 22nd July Commission report and the police analysis are part of their development projects. Nevertheless, it is problematic that this work has not given more results faster. Norwegian society has ambitions and expectations on behalf of everyone — at least it should. That's why it's important that we make it possible for people who have served their punishment to come back to life and to society. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision is concerned that prison inmates in Norwegian prisons do not receive the services they require and that this could lead to a return to the situation that could be more difficult than necessary. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has a general responsibility to coordinate efforts to reduce the number of offenders who commit criminal acts after an end of their term of office. Then they have to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e225	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e239	As announced, we are now going to process the administrative audit document. It deals with the follow-up of 11 administrative audits, ten of which are closed. One case, dealing with the National Audit Office’s study of the objectives of the Directorate of Integration and Diversity and the use of instruments in the work on the settlement and qualification of refugees, must be followed further. A Joint Committee has noted that six of the cases closed will be followed up in the ongoing revisions of the Riksrevision. This concerns the operation and management of the Enova SF, the quality of treatment of addicts by private institutions, the performance orientation of Norwegian aid, the follow-up work of the Employment and Welfare Act on sick persons without employer, and compliance with public procurement and maintenance legislation and the maintenance of church buildings. We have also noticed that the Riksrevision will follow up its studies on radiation safety and environmental protection against pollution from radioactive sources in North-West Russia. I would like to stress that the Committee agrees and emphasises the continuing importance of cooperation between the Russian and Norwegian authorities on radiation safety and the protection of the environment in North-West Russia. Two cases have been decided by the National Audit Office in spite of the fact that several actions have been taken in both departments to follow up previous recommendations. The issues involved are special education in primary school and internal control in the defence sector. The National Audit Office points out that there are still challenges that should be followed up by the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Defence. The Committee agrees. With regard to the follow-up of the National Audit Office on how the Ministry of the Environment has respected national responsibility for peaceful and protective buildings, the Committee considers it serious that the Riksrevision concludes that there is a risk that the Ministry will not adequately secure such buildings. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision will closely monitor developments in this area and propose a new administrative audit if there is still a risk of non-achieving its objectives. So to the matter that the Riksrevision has chosen to follow on. It is about the goal of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity and the use of instruments in the work of resettlement and the qualification of refugees. The Ministry believes that training in Norwegian and social knowledge and the introduction programme are key instruments in the basic qualification of newly arrived refugees and immigrants, and that, therefore, considerable attention needs to be paid to this by both the Department and the Directorate for Integration and Diversity. At the same time, both the Department and the Directorate recognise that there are still considerable differences in the quality of the work of municipalities to include and qualify immigrants. To remedy this situation, a grant scheme with municipal development funds was introduced in 2013 to improve the quality of Norwegian training. The course offer for teachers in Norwegian and social sciences was increased, and an agreement was reached with the SSB to study the results of the training. Compulsory tests have also been introduced in Norwegian and social knowledge for those who were granted a residence permit after 1 September 2013. The National Audit Office points out that these actions undertaken by the Ministry in several areas to improve the quality of both the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and community knowledge have to work over time. The Committee agrees. At the same time, the Riksrevision of the view that the measures taken are primarily to provide information and are not targeted at the municipalities where the problems lie. The Committee therefore considers that the difference in the quality of training between municipalities suggests that measures should be targeted at municipalities with the weak results. That the differences seem to be as large as they are explained is an obvious problem for those immigrants who do not come to municipalities where this works in a good way. The Committee therefore welcomes the further follow-up by the Riksrevision to this matter in the manner that has been announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e272	The number of call decisions has increased in recent years, and this year's message has made it possible for the follow-up to 82 decisions of the 2013–2014 Session and 13 decisions of 2012–2013. Upon receipt of the Committee's invitation to tender, we will send letters to the various commissions and ask for feedback on them, and we will refer you to the position of the Committee's questions and comments under the individual decisions, where appropriate. What the Committee has done is that we have chosen to comment where we believe that the follow-up has not been completed or satisfactory. The decisions we think are followed up, we take note, and we don't mention them in the setting. This setting reflects 34 decisions of the 2013–2014 Session and 9 decisions of the 2012–2013 Session. At the beginning of the setting, the Control and Constitutional Committee has asked the government to change the timing of the submission of the call for proposals for follow-up to the call for proposals and distribution decisions. After today’s practice, it is transmitted in October, quite shortly after the session reported to be over. I think it would be more sensible if the message were sent three months later – in January of the following year. Then it would have been a little longer after the decision was taken, and at that time perhaps more decisions could have been followed up. It would contribute to a more holistic reporting on the follow-up to the call and distribution decisions in the Storting. Therefore, the Committee requests that this be done in order to present the next notification in January 2016 and to address the follow-up to decisions from 2014 to 2015. I am referring to the configuration of the matter and should only comment on some decisions where there is disagreement in the committee as to whether or not the decision has been followed up. It applies for the first Decision No. 590. There was the proposal: ‘The government asks the government to assess incentives for the faster settlement of lone minor asylum seekers in the municipalities.’ Here is the plurality of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Green Party, in doubt whether the decision has been followed up. It also applies to Decision No. 450, from June 2014: ‘The government asks the Stortinget Government to explain how Norway can assist neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan in managing the refugee flow from Syria, as well as an assessment of how many more Syrian refugees Norway can receive in 2014-2015.’ Here the members of the Labour Party, SV and the Green Party say that we disagree that part 2 of the decision has been followed up. So it applies to Decision No. 76 of December 2013: ‘The government asks the Government to follow closely the Husbank loan framework to assess its adequacy and return to the Stortinget with proposals for any increase in the loan framework in the revised national budget for 2014.’» The majority of the committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Green Party, say that there was an anomaly between the Loan Chamber of the House Bank and applications received. The majority therefore believe that the decision has not been properly followed up. It also applies to Decision No. 453: ‘The government is asked to propose measures to ensure that, as a general rule, new state activities are left outside Oslo and built up in viable regions.’ The members of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV do not see that there are any measures to ensure that new state-owned enterprises are laid outside Oslo as a general rule, because I believe that the decision has not been followed up. It also applies to a similar decision, Decision No. 454: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for localising state jobs to reduce the pressure in the Oslo region and to strengthen the professional environment and competences throughout the country.’ Here there are also the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV who believe that the decision has not been followed up. The last decision is Decision No. 321: ‘The government is asked to propose through the annual budget proposals a growth in the income of municipalities that effectively enables municipalities to develop and strengthen the quality of school and other welfare services, and in addition to fully cover demographic and pension costs.’ There, the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV say that they believe that the appeal decision is not followed up properly. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the setting, where we explain the decision with comments, and I recommend this setting of the call and distribution decisions for 2013–2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e329	So far, these matters from the control committee – the two-three preceding and this – have been marked by the fact that we have been at the heart of what we are going to do, namely control, and perhaps party politics will then rest for a while. That is why, with great satisfaction, we have heard the chairman of the committee explain what is the pervasive, unifying position, regardless of the party, in the Committee on Control. But the previous article, from the rapporteur, Mr Eldegard, needs some clarifications. Firstly, it is not the case that a request decision, even though it can be counted as a majority at the back, leaves the government's obligation to investigate matters, on the basis of the investigative instructions. It is a request for the government, in the form of natural, to return to the Storting and to testify, but it is not such that the Storting has taken a decision containing the substantive content of the request decision. This was also made very clear by the fact that very many of the proposals are open, discretionary and, perhaps not meant to be a compliment, political objectives. It will often be due to a political judgement that, when you look at the issues and the way they are asked, you will satisfy all those who were behind the request decision. In particular, as regards concrete proposals on what the government is to ensure by means, there is reason to put a ‘serious’ exclamation mark at the logic of the previous article, because we cannot therefore put the allocation regulation of the Storting out of operation. When the Stortinge gets back a document that goes beyond just being annexed to the Protocol in various areas, it can be said that the Government has accepted in some form the requests covered by the notification. However, with regard to the budget, where there is competition for the resources of society, and where there is a need to balance and prioritise within the framework that this House has found to be sound, it is, of course, the Storing that has made a decision on what resources it considers appropriate to use in all the areas of the state. Then you cannot go back to the budget decision and say: Yes, but the government has not provided enough for the municipalities, there is not enough funding for the House Bank and has not provided enough for the kindergartens. Thus, the budget decision, which is an active decision by the Stortinge, must be able to assume that then the Stortinget has determined what is the use of resources, and some higher will is not expressed on the use of resources in Norway than in the budget decision of the Stortinge — and in the revised national budget, as part of this. Because you can look at what the alternative is: Well, it would just be to adopt a request decision – 15 million to the excellent institution x, and y million to another institution, which can also argue that it is a social enterprise – and then it would bind the government. It might have bound the government, but it would undermine the Storting's own ability to see the state's total expenditure in context and priority, which is this hall's foremost and most important task. So you can't deviate from that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e356	In December 2014, a film was shown on TV entitled "Pels". Let me first make it clear that this should not be a debate on whether or not we are going to have a fur animal nutrition. It shall be animal welfare. If that movie could be a very strange one. One could say a lot about both method usage, how much time they've spent collecting the material, and how much raw film they had, and then look at the result that came as a film. There were probably a lot of people who thought that things would get a lot worse than what came, but I also have to say that it was bad enough what came out in the movie. At the same time, I also have to say that when you have worked so long with something and kept it so very up, maybe both I and others expected something more. It was bad enough what came out in the film, and we saw some attitudes that absolutely are not worth Norway. We saw attitudes that we absolutely should not have and do not want in fur animal nutrition and that do not want fur animal nutrition either. That being said, the fur industry has improved considerably in recent years. Many people in the fur industry have become aware of having a good animal welfare record. Food surveillance has had frequent controls on fur animal nutrition; in fact, it is the industry that is being controlled by everyone, most of all. Only in 2013 they had almost 260 controls on fur farms. What has happened in recent years is that a good number of unprofessional players have disappeared from the industry – and we should be pleased about that – but still there is still a little work to be done. Increased inspection by the Food Authority and much more awareness of animal welfare by each husband and wife indicate an industry that takes animal welfare seriously. There are, of course, exceptions — in the fur industry as in other industries — but the aim must be to minimise these exceptions. But animal welfare also deals with things other than fur animals. We keep recording headlines in the media about livestock herds where there have been large animals. Such notices reveal that something has happened in particular, and it is very important that this is revealed as early as possible. On frequent visits to the Food Safety Authority, there is a possibility to see if something can happen. The more visits the Food Safety Authority is able to carry out, and the more farms they get inside, the earlier they may find that something is not right. So let's see if the long checks, where you go in detail, can get a little less. Although these are also important, it is more important that the Food Safety Authority shows presence, that checks are carried out, that someone is there and shows interest in the operation. If that doesn't happen, we get these headlines that we sometimes have in the media, where larger crews have been exposed to very little pretty things. This nobody wants, and we also want to look at what can be done, in the best possible way, to avoid that in the future. There's one part in keeping livestock that isn't as easy to control, and that's what we have at home, that's dogs, cats, and the animals that are around in the thousands of homes. There we don't have the ability to do checks. We do not have the opportunity to enter the homes of people and carry out checks in the same way as in livestock. In a way, one should be happy about it, but there is one then dependent on other methods to find out if animal welfare is good enough. So what's exciting about the future is to look at what kind of opportunity you have to go into and discover animal husbandry conditions without violating privacy, which is incredibly important to maintain in this way. But the challenge is there, and I think the Council of State has also made its mind around it. If the Council of State has concluded in this area, I am not so sure, but this is, as I said, a major and major challenge and a problem that it is important to take seriously. It'll be exciting to hear what happens on that front as well. Finally, it's important that we focus on this with animal welfare, it's important that we are aware that animals should feel good, but it's also important that we do our part to maintain industries that have the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e375	Thank you for the interpellation of the representative Ørsal Johansen on animal welfare in the fur industry. I am concerned that good animal welfare needs to be ensured in fur animal nutrition in the same way as in other animal industries. I therefore reacted to the film ‘Pels’, which showed several serious violations of animal welfare legislation, unacceptable attitudes and non-compliance with animals and legislation. The industry must ensure that this ends, although it must also be said that the conditions described in the film are not necessarily representative of the industry. Both I and the Food Safety Authority have met with Norway’s Pelsa Team about what appeared in the film. The range that has undergone the fur industry has pointed to several measures that can strengthen animal welfare. Among these are measures relating to the inter-pellant aspects, namely measures to strengthen and systematise breeding work in order to obtain more reliable animals and the rapid use of escalating instruments by the Food Safety Authority in order to obtain even better supervision and follow-up. In terms of measures to strengthen breeding, more than just research is being focused on. It is therefore true that the sample has pointed out that the confidence of fur animals towards humans is one of those areas where welfare challenges remain for fur animals. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: by showing large differences in the reliability of the animals between breeders in tests. I also agree that a public oversight that can respond quickly and appropriately to the detection of serious breaches of legislation is necessary, as the majority of the committee has pointed out. I expect the Food Safety Authority to review the monitoring methodology and organisation of supervision after the film ‘Pels’, and the Food Safety Authority itself has notified this. Supervision of the fur animal industry has been intensified in recent years as a result of a prioritisation by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I have continued to prioritise the supervision of fur animal feeding, and there are no other types of animal husbandry being inspected as much by the Food Authority as fur animals. The government has now also made food surveillance more effective, ranging from three to two levels of administration, and the number of regions in the organisation has been reduced from eight to five. The changes will provide more comprehensive and effective food surveillance, with the aim of increasing the production of supervision by 25 pst. in the course of four years. In practice, there will be fewer leaders – a reduction of 30 pst. – minor administration and several staff in the field of supervision and guidance. This will contribute to even better animal welfare in several livestock industries. A separate section on animal welfare is also established in the context of the reorganisation of the Food Safety Authority. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries also adopted on 1 July 2014 a new regulation on the fee for infringements under the Animal Welfare Act. The aim is to promote good welfare and respect for animals through a predictable, effective and consistent use of the infringement fee. The Food Authority has been authorised by the Animal Welfare Act § 34 to impose an infringement fee since the law came into force on 1 January 2010, but the home has not been in use until the new regulation. This will allow the Food Authority to use a new instrument to promote compliance with the Animal Welfare Act. However, it is not right for me already to draw conclusions on and rank the main factors and fields of action that can ensure good animal welfare in fur animal nutrition in the future. This is due to the fact that the report of the sample has now been sent to the hearing on 27 April. I expect that there will be many and thorough consultations, both on measures to provide the industry with sustainable development with good animal welfare and on managed winding-up. The debate to come and the conclusions to be drawn by the government must take into account what emerges from this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e398	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State is taking animal welfare seriously. I've never been in doubt about that. I am also very pleased with the measures that the Council of State here mentions, which are already in progress. And the reorganisation of the Food Authority, which is now on the stairs, will certainly provide a better animal welfare. Increasing the frequency of supervision is positive, and I think it will delight very many who are happy in animals. So I record that the Council of State has plans for animal welfare, and I record that the Council of State has animal welfare high on its agenda, and therefore I also welcome the work that the Council of State will do in the future, and the proposals and measures that the Council of State will take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e407	Yes, we are going to work very actively with animal welfare also in the time to come. We work, among others. looking at how we can launch a test project with some kind of animal police, which we think is appropriate to try out. The representative Ørsal Johansen was otherwise in that there are many things that can happen on a farm that make a person get challenges in terms of animal welfare. I also believe it is important that the Food Safety Authority has a good cooperation with all potential good helpers who are in the farm during a week. It may be the joint purchase, which is there to deliver goods. There may be veterinarians who are in the herds and who can reveal that things are not good. It could be the TINE or the Q-meiergies, which are out to get milk, and which can then also observe things. And there can be slaughterhouses, that are around, that get these animals to slaughter — at least part of them. So getting into these good cooperation relationships I think it's very important that we keep working. In the case of pets, it is a demanding matter because they live a lot in our private homes, but we all have a duty to report if we see that animals are not well. Information shall be readily available on the websites of the Food Safety Authority on where to contact, and there is a separate button to submit a statement of concern. It is also such that one of the species of livestock for which the Food Authority is particularly concerned is the horse. There are a lot of people who get a horse, and they don't even know how to handle it. Many young girls are very concerned with the horse. There are many people who have experience and who have children who are experienced in that situation. This is a challenge that the Food Safety Authority is also concerned about working with in the future, in order to detect conditions that are not good, linked to that animal species. But this is a priority area for this government, and we're going to work wide, on many fronts, to do what we can to make the animals in Norway feel better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e418	Animal welfare is important. I am very pleased with the response of the Council of State and also the approach of the inter-pellant, and that the Council of State also points to the range of fur animals that have worked, and that this is a process around how we deal with these kinds of questions. The size has just finished the ownership message, and social responsibility was an important part of the whole message. I think it's about every business life, that you have to be able to operate within the framework that society accepts, and where you don't get a reputation that makes it simply impossible to defend an industry. That is what we are talking about here in many ways, basically: how do we create businesses that have an image in society that both politics and themselves can defend their basis? At the same time, I have to say, as the Council of State also says, that violations of animal welfare can happen in many situations. We see tragedies, it can be anything from mental breakdown to many explanations about animal tragedy, and then it's important that we have a device in place and take it as quickly as possible. This is primarily the role of the Food Authority. But then I would also point out that the Focus Programme was not a good starting point for this discussion. I just want to refer – because I think it is quite important that you bring it with you in the debate – the opinion of the Broadcasting Council on the Focus Programme. After all, the Broadcasting Board is not anyone when it's going to judge what actually comes out to the viewers. They start by saying: ‘The Pels Documentary is a coherent, eloquent line of argument from one party to a disputed case’. This is quite preposterous criticism. And then, of course, they're going to tell us that this is going to reveal things that we all don't like, and that we all distance from, but they also say, ‘The NRC should be able to use controversial journalistic methods. In an area such as animal welfare, such methods may in some cases be legitimate. Nevertheless, the Broadcasting Council considers that Focus could achieve a good debate on fur animal husbandry without challenging the requirements of source criticism and materiality in this case.» And then you keep going: ‘The Broadcasting Council refers to an opinion of April 2014 where the Council invited the NRK to give priority to the work on critical, investigative journalism, based on a sound professional and ethical basis. The Broadcasting Council also concluded that Focus is a powerful and resource-intensive editorial work with a special responsibility for creating programmes based on clear premises, reprehensibility, source criticism and materiality. This responsibility also applies to external productions.» So it's a very strong and thorough report from those who monitor the NRK, and we're a little bit concerned about how we're creating a good debate about this. I think it's about the overall question: fur industry is actually an industry that exploits a production base in nature, it's about an international market that's going to be where either Norway likes it or not, and the overall thing for me is whether we're going to ban industries, or whether we're going to go in and pick out those actors that don't comply with society's demands. It's a fairly fundamental debate, which I think will follow up the review of the case by the Council of State. After all, it's a small industry, but it's profitable and it's internationally oriented. As I said, it relates to a market out there. I have now visited quite a number of fur farmers. It is a good reintroduction to district-based jobs. I meet an industry where at least the actors I've met – and it's not so surprising either – are very serious people who take their responsibility seriously, and as I said, it's not surprising either because this is a industry that has had a continuous critical light on it for a long time. They're going to have to learn to live with that, but I look forward to a debate that goes on an objective and factual professional basis, but that doesn't start with a program like Focus. I am absolutely sure that we will when the Council of State has finished the sample that is there, and we will get conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e444	First of all, I would like to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant Ørsal Johansen for travelling this interpellation on good animal welfare, explicitly within the fur animal industry. All animal husbandry shall be based on good animal welfare. That has to be the starting point. We must make strict demands on animal welfare, and it should be followed up – as the Christian People's Party sees it – with both effective and unannounced controls. In particular, within the industry we are now explicitly talking about — the fur industry — because, as previous speakers have pointed out, there have been several unfortunate cases of poor animal husbandry in this industry. It is totally unacceptable when fur breeders do not deal with the laws that this house has adopted, or rules that the government has adopted, when the intention of both the laws and the rules is to ensure good animal welfare. Those who do not act in line with the current legislation should not be allowed to continue farming, as the Christian People's Party sees it. What emerged from the focus document 'Pels' is that the legislation is in place, but the challenge is that it is not followed that the control may seem inadequate. I guess that's where we have an improvement potential. It has always been claimed that there are single actors – it is not the single actors that should be the reason why we are making major changes for the whole industry, we need to see both the single actors and the whole together. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that we distinguish between the serious and the unprofessional actors in the fur industry. The serious operators meeting the requirements of good animal welfare must continue their activities, while the unprofessional operators who do not meet the requirements of animal welfare should find a different nutritional basis. I am also pleased that the Council of State has sent this NOU, which we got approx. at the same time, after consultation, that the Council of State does not conclude very much today, but that it will listen to the consultation round that is now being concluded on 27 April. Then it's in its place that the Storting goes into the discussion in an appropriate way when the government has concluded with regard to that NOU, and takes this further, because this Focus program revealed things that we can't see through the fingers with – that laws and rules are not being followed, as we have said to happen. At the same time, we also know from visits that everyone in the Business Committee has probably had, that most in this industry operate according to the laws and regulations that this house has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e455	I would like to start by thanking the representative Ørsal Johansen for addressing the issue of animal welfare. Animal welfare is important, animal welfare is important in the fur industry as well. Let me start by saying that I perceive the fur industry as an important and viable industry that we want to have in Norway. We've got a NOU that's a good starting point for further growth in fur animal nutrition. With regard to the Focus documenter, I'm not going to comment on it that much. I think the representative Gundersen did it in a good way. This is to think of as a party post, and it is clear that it becomes demanding to discuss when you have a different view of whether it is at all right for any purpose to keep animals in captivity or not. I believe that the policy must be based on the NOU that we have been given, the professional basis that has been given. Then there is also a very clear call for the industry, which I feel the industry has also taken: openness is important. I am happy when I see in the paper that it is advertised about open fur zoo. It is not that it is possible to have poor animal welfare on a Monday and good animal welfare on a Tuesday, even if you know that you are being visited. That's not the way animal husbandry works, it's not possible. One must have uniform, good animal welfare in order for one to dare to let strangers into his farm. So I'm a little surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party who before the elections were very clear in the fur animal case, to some extent has lost their mind in the matter. This creates some uncertainty. That is why it is important that we now get a case before the Stortinget, so that we can make a decision and establish predictable conditions for the industry in the future. The Committee has a draft representative for consideration and a matter is expected from the government. These should be treated with the greatest seriousness and may result in changes in the way it is operated. I think that is quite important – one must not say that the legislation and system that you have today is perfect. It is necessary to be willing, in consultation with the veterinary authorities and the industry itself, to see if there are improvements that you can make. Then it has been up to the debate that the happiness of life is to remove the subsidies for fur animal nutrition. It is very limited what kind of subsidies the fur industry receives, compared to the value creation they provide. I don't think the welfare of fur animals is getting better if a stripper removes the farmers' right to holiday and leisure. I don't think animal welfare is getting better if a cutter the symbolic support that a giver to the Fur Animal Battle for animal welfare and breeding. I don't think animal welfare will be better if you remove the transport aid, so that fur farming becomes something that you can drive in central strokes, but that's not possible to drive in the districts. So it's not a good animal welfare at all to cut out support for fur animal nutrition. It is a symbolism policy, and it is a poor business policy because fur industry is a profit-making industry that creates values and an attractive product. Norwegian fur breeders and Norwegian fur breeders deserve that we take them seriously, and that we help to clear up the uncertainty surrounding the industry. Yes, one can accept that there are lots and people who are against the principle of fur husbandry, but we have to decide whether this is an industry that we want to have. If the answer to that is yes, we cannot live with an uncertainty from year to year. Then we have to provide a basis for further growth within the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e472	Policies are full of difficult issues with high levels of nuances that are difficult to deal with. This is not such a question, in my view. This is a question where it is rarely easy to do the right thing, simply that we should abolish fur nutrition. Let me go through the seven arguments I mean pointers in that direction: Point 1: Predators are not meant to live in cages. It is contrary to their instincts, and it is not right to allow animals that are not domesticated over thousands of years to live in cages. There is simply an ethical error. Point 2: Last time the Stortinget had a thorough treatment of the fur animal question, in 2003, one said that it would be a clear goal to produce significantly more trusting animals – and one has not been in the vicinity of success! At a meeting recently held by the Food Safety Authority with the Norwegian Pelsal Team, the report states that the Food Safety Authority believes that there has been no documented effect on this in the right direction in the last ten years. Point 3: I myself come from an agricultural community, Naustdal in Sogn and Fjordane, and have grown up with how important agricultural and food production is to us. But fur animals, unlike much of the agricultural production we have, are not a necessary product for us to live, and for all humans to be able to live well. There is a fundamental difference between other parts of agriculture that have major challenges with animal welfare — such as chicken — and fur production. Point 4: Fur nutrition is, in fact, a little bit of nourishment and a little bit of nourishment for Norway. There are very few jobs – a few hundreds – and there are only a few very few municipalities in Norway where fur nutrition plays an important role. And with the new selection's setting, we have a possible and realistic way to quickly put the food down. Norway's transition from being an oil nation to a nation that lives on something else is necessary, but very tough and difficult. The migration from being a nation with fur nutrition is very easy. Point 5: It is a widespread myth – which is only repeated and repeated without evidence – that fur animal nutrition in Norway is clearly better than fur animal nutrition in most other places. I am happy to see substantial documentation for this. On the contrary, there are reviews that show that we have essentially the same legislation as other fur producing countries. Point 6: What makes it so, and makes it almost impossible to imagine that we are going to have a completely different production of fur with a completely different ethical standard than other countries, is that fur is essentially – about. 99 pst., if I am not mistaken – is an export product to completely different markets, to a large extent the Chinese, but also some other markets. This means that a person is fully competing with the conditions under which production is carried out in other countries. So if one breeds blue foxes to be much larger than he should be, in other countries – well, then we also have to do it because of the size of the fur being requested. And if you have a production where the cages are small, well, it's very, very difficult to make them bigger for the industry in Norway if one is going to ten large sums. Point 7: The message that animal welfare is important, that serious actors should continue, but not the unprofessional, that now it has to be cleaned up, is a proven blasphemy – not once, not twice, but repeatedly, almost annually, for too many years. That's why it's time for the Storting to come together. Fortunately, there is a positive development: more and more parties have taken advantage of the SV and others for many years. Others discuss this more internally. If I'm allowed to draw out one party in particular, it's a Christian People's Party. I found it very difficult to understand – with the ideological basis of the Christian People's Party and the involvement of the party in other environmental and value issues – that they can have the position they currently have in fur nutrition. It is a matter of time before fur nutrition in Norway is discontinued. A similar development, in a slightly different way, is taking place in many countries in Europe. Let's not be a retard. Let's take the ethical choice quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e495	Over the years, we have seen many examples of poor animal welfare in the fur industry, and with the relatively fragile yes that the Fur Animal Selection has given, there is reason to ask questions about whether the future will look very different, when the sample is clear at the same time that there are still more challenges in today's fur farming. The Workers' Party has taken the position that we want a guided closure of the fur animal industry, of course with means of conversion for the establishment of new agricultural activities. The selection of fur animals also points to that, i.e. the need for further investigation of compensation schemes. I also believe without doubt that it is the way Gundersen's representative used to be, that there are many serious actors in the fur industry – I have met some of them myself – who are concerned about animal welfare. But we still see that the situation is still challenging. There are also some questions to ask to the Pels Committee's report. They include: proposed cage-free operation, and the question is whether it is an economical option. And when there's uncertainty about whether it's economically real, it's important to note the minority's remark in the report that there's significant uncertainty about whether the reef and the decline need for freedom of movement can be satisfied in low-complex netting cages. They also consider that research is unlikely to help address the need for new forms of operation. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's budgetary procedure before Christmas, there was a majority to ask the Government to assess the ban on fur production in the follow-up to the Report of the Committee on fur animals. And neither the report of the sample nor in particular the debate that has gone on since then has given the Workers' Party any basis for abandoning that wish. For this reason, we still believe that the aim should be the managed closure of the fur animal industry, with the assumption that adequate compensation schemes will be put in place. So it will be challenging, both for the nutritionists and for animal welfare, to shut down the operation as we know it today, overnight, but therefore a good exit plan is also necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e508	The starting point for the interpellation, which I am very pleased that the interpellant has recorded, is a TV document. The right-wing representative read out some statements from the Broadcasting Council that he gave tough characteristics, which I do not exactly want to say that I agree with. The Broadcasting Council had some points – which you can probably make journalistic – about the rights of defence, but what was produced, nobody asked questions about it. The main problem here is two things. One is that you meet an attitude toward animals, the way you talk about animals, developed in an industry where – that’s my second point – animals are not domesticated in the same way as other domestic animals are. Cows, hens and pigs have lived in symbiosis with people for thousands of years. We've developed our own breeds, which make us work together on our own in terms of what we use animals for. They thrive with people, they thrive in flocks, and they have developed their own breeds that are no longer in wild form out in nature. It's taken a thousand years. Keeping fur animals has been going on for almost 100 years. These are animals that are not easily domesticated either. These are small predators, which we decide to keep in small cages. That's why this is different from all other animal husbandry. These animals are not domesticated — they cannot be domesticated. If they are domesticated in such a way that they act as a domestic animal, they will not have the characteristic you are after, namely fur. You'll soon get changes in the animal, which makes you get dogs instead of foxes. Then you won't achieve what you want to achieve with fur-farming, namely getting purple fur. The left believes that we should liquidate this. When Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture, we presented the first animal protection message to the Stortinget. There was then an agreement with the fur industry that it would have ten years on it — to see if it was possible to domesticate animals so that they could both work together with humans, and that this animal husbandry could be operated in a good way. The left is that we have not made that clear. The constant revelations are not about bad people, they are about seeing that this is a livestock that is difficult to meet the ethical standards that we want animal husbandry to have. It's about us not being able to domesticate this animal so that it works the way people need it. I mean, it's throwing blues in the eyes of those who are doing this now, saying that we can do this forever. Because this is going to end -- everyone knows this is going to end. If you ask the youth parties about the attitude to this, it's pretty clear what they think we should do. We should make sure that we get to a liquidation where people get the opportunity to do something else. We should stop subsidising a livestock farm where we don't know if you can keep the ethical standards we think animal husbandry should have. The Minister of Agriculture will know that if she starts with such a plan, she will receive full support from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e522	Let's do a simple thought experiment: we take a few thousand of the country's dogs, put them in small cages, leave them there for the rest of their lives and declare that they're fine. A lot of people will think that's a crazy example, but everyone will agree that it will be very strongly reacted to doing something like that. But it's not a crazy example, it's a completely relevant example. Mink and reef are species that have evolved through hundreds of thousands of years into a vastly complex way of life, where they have to claim revir, they have to hunt, they have to mate, they have to relate to other animals, they have to find very many different types of prey, and they have to cope with a variety of environmental conditions. These are very sophisticated animals, and to put it simply, they get crazy by staying in a netting cage all their lives. This is the essence of the debate on fur animal husbandry and fur production in cages in Norway. It is a business that would never be allowed in the world in Norway if anyone had proposed to start with it now. In addition, there is an enterprise that is clearly contrary to the animal welfare law we have today, on a number of points, so many points that I will not spend the time ramming them up here. The basic requirements are that animals in Norwegian livestock production should be able to live up to their natural environmental requirements, etc. It makes no sense that at all we have a debate on whether these requirements are broken or not. They will. That is why I would like to thank the representative, Mr Johansen, for the initiative for this debate, because it is very good that we are now getting it up again. I would also like to thank the Progress Party for having shown quite a lot of interest and commitment to animal welfare in recent times. We get a pilot project on animal police in Trondheim, the Minister of Agriculture has promised a real lift of expertise in the police on animal welfare, the Food Authority gets its own section on animal welfare – in line with the environmental party De Greene has asked for, and this is very good. The Green Party will also stress that we are strong supporters of continuing business, not least in the districts of Norway, but we must therefore base what is Norwegian law and what are fundamental requirements for carrying out that type of business. So there's a problem that we're now on our way into another round of discussion based on an expectation or a premise that it's possible to acquire the characteristics that make reefs and declines disfigure in cages, and that it's possible to develop these species into animals that are so apathetic that they can thrive in the environment that fur nutrition will necessarily give them. Fur husbandry is – to say the least – unnatural. It's technically illegal, if you respect the law, and it's politically very problematic that parties that have adopted the Animal Welfare Act work so hard to keep a business that is so obviously contrary to that law. Therefore, the Green Party expects all the parties that have still not managed to take a free and trade-based position on fur animal nutrition in the political process that is now coming, to do so and be able to take a step back and relate to the reality of this industry, the reality of mink and reefs when they are put into small netting cages. If you're going to be able to put this kind of discretionary judgment on the basis of which you're going to maintain the fur animal population in Norway, in front of the law we've actually passed in the Stortinget, then the question is what's the point of having a law.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e537	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would like to say thank you for the good answers that the Council of State has now given, and I would like to add a few comments to the debate itself. As for the debate on whether or not to feed fur animals, I do not intend to comment. There is something we should address later in this House, which really has nothing to do with the debate. What we were going to debate here was animal welfare, both in the fur industry and in the livestock industry in general. So I'm not commenting on anything more than that, except that the Progress Party has not changed any policy in any way. The Progress Party has not said that we should shut down the fur industry, and the Progress Party does not have a tradition of banning industries. So I'd like to make a little comment to the representative Pollestad, that's it with transparency. I think it is very important — both in fur and other industries — that we have openness, and that it is possible to come and visit farms and see how it is in fur animal nutrition, and see how it is in farms in traditional agriculture. And the representative Pollestad says that you do not have bad animal welfare on Monday and good on Tuesday. Bad animal welfare is something that goes over time, as is good animal welfare. It's something that it takes time to build up, and that will be persistent. It's a video that I appreciate, and I think more people should notice. It was said here that there was a majority in the Storting to investigate a ban on fur farming. It was a majority on the Biggest to investigate a ban and sustainable development. It's important to bring that shade -- that we have both. The Pelvic Committee report has now been consulted. We are waiting for hearing opinions and the conclusions that may come. I believe – as the Council of State also had in mind – that there will be an incredible number of answers, I think there will be many varied answers. Then we'll look at the answers and what conclusions are drawn from these, and what kind of conclusions the government makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e550	Thank you for a good debate, and an interesting debate, which is always linked to these questions. I very much agree with those who say that it is important that we discuss these questions on an objective, factual basis. I think that is the nice thing about the NOU that is now being consulted, that both those who were for a further operation of the industry, and those who are for closure, agreed that the facts are good, and that there is something that can be taken into account in the further discussion. It started with animal welfare, but as always when discussing fur animal nutrition, there is a debate spiced with arguments to keep industry, arguments against industry and arguments for and against subsidies. What is at least certain is that the government will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, where Stortinget is invited to discuss this matter in more detail and decide on this issue. This is also part of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. Thanks for the good feedback from the Green Party on work done by the government and the Progress Party on animal welfare. It's not every day we get boasted from there, so we're really taking that with us. We're going to work on strengthening animal welfare. We're good in Norway, but we'll never rest on our laurels. That's why we have to work all the time to get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e559	The interpellant debate is therefore closed. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and 6, which are the second legal proceedings, are dealt with as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e586	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e592	The President will draw attention to the fact that there are unanimous decisions in all cases, and that we just need to be decision-making. The President has tried to count, and believes we are, and assumes that the intruders will nod to it. – We have to wait until the last ones have settled, and we are ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e644	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-02-10.ana.ud798e651	Case No. 5 and 6 are the second time legal proceedings and refer to Acts 39 and 40. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 7, Unit, it's already over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
